ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e27	The called alternate of the Akershu County, Julie Christiansen, has taken the seat. Two applications for sick leave have been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representatives Olav Aksensen and Laila Kaland respectively – both from Wednesday 3 February and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: for the county of Hordaland: Gard Folkvord For More and Romesdal County: Ottar Kaldhol3. Ottar Kaldhol is elected to the Lamentations for the time he meets the representative of Laila Kaland.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e58	Gard Folkvord and Ottar Kaldhol are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e77	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad State Council Odd Einar Dørum State Council Magnhild Melting Authority Kleppa The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. - Thank you. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Oddvard Nilsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e96	I have a question for the Minister of Transport. During the Questionnaire in Stortinget on 28 October 1998, the Minister for Transport was asked about the operating problems at Gardermoen Airport. Governments responded at that time, for example: as follows: ‘The childhood diseases and problems with which Oslo Airport AS deleted during the first two weeks after take-off have decreased.’ Child diseases are something that a person expects to cross reasonably quickly and thereby be of a transitory nature. Does the Council of State now believe, in February 1999, that there are still only childhood diseases at the new main aerodrome?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e108	It is quite obvious that the main aerodrome has unsolved challenges. There is good cooperation between the airlines and the airport to improve it, so regularity has improved. But I've seen this as so important that I had a meeting with both the airlines and the airport management before Christmas, and I'm going to repeat it in the near future in order to take status on all points, whether it concerns baggage conditions, de-icing, waiting time, and otherwise all aspects of operating the aerodrome, because no matter how this is and how to handle it, it has to be followed up. I have also placed great emphasis on always providing accurate information on the situation of operating the aerodrome.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e113	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have to admit that many people have marveled that Norwegian weather conditions in winter time would create such problems at a Norwegian airport. The foreign airlines also wonder that a country far north of Europe, which should know the winter problems better than anyone else, has had such problems. I also saw that the Council of State in its reply on 28 October had no particular sense of ‘anecdotal information’ as the basis for an overall decision, so I will leave it at that. But does the Council of State, as a representative of a party that partly, or at least frequently, speaks nicely of Norwegian business, worry that the costs associated with delays at the aerodrome assume such dimensions? What will the Council of State do besides protect the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e122	‘Anecdotal information’ was cleaned up in the hall in the sense that it was on my and others’ experiences. They're important, they should never be devalued, but it's the systematic information that's being gathered, that we should use. Of course, there's always concern when something's not as top as it should be, but it would worry more if people didn't work on it in a proper way, and I feel like they are. As far as weather conditions are concerned, I have now gone back to the large-scale documents that were available when the decision on the Gardermoen was made, and as far as I can see, it is described that under normal category 1 conditions it can be expected that it is more often closed on the Gardermoen than on Fornebu. What has been a problem is the so-called Category 2 installation, which has been delayed, but it is only two days since the opening that it has been up to date. The last day where it has been mentioned as current, i.e. last Sunday, it probably wouldn't have happened to Category 2, but you had to go to Category 3, and it wouldn't have been available now under normal procedures either. When it's winter in Norway, all of us who sit and wait, whether it's on the Gardermoen, on the Flesland, in the Förde or in Haugesund, know that we're annoyed about it, but we're doing what we can to deal with it, both in terms of the practical and the information.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e133	Thore Aksel Nistad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e136	The Minister of Transport has here explained some of the problems and how he will solve them. In retrospect, I would like to ask if it will be discussed with an investigation to make a possible liability valid for those who may have done a poor job in the scandal that this is, for this has been going on for quite a long time. It was promised that after three months of operation everything would be up and going, and it would be all right on the Gardermo. In addition, one has had a trial period for the charter tourists, which also went over a few months, and this is now beginning to revolve around quite a long time. Will any initiative be taken by the Council of State to properly investigate everything that has been done, from the point of view of where the airport was to be located, until today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e143	The conditions at Gardermoen are obviously a question that concerns Stortinget. The last time you had the chance to look at this was last year, and then you agreed to look at all the aspects of the question, except the location. All those questions are now being addressed in an independent sample, and I will in the near future inform the Storting in an appropriate way about the progress of that work. When it comes to the relationship at the airport, I expect people to do what they can when there are difficult weather conditions, to say from and clean up problems, and it's my impression that you work like this. In order to make sure of it, as I have said before, I will in the near future sit down with representatives of the airlines and the airport to review all aspects of the practical operation. We're going to take irritation seriously, but we're also going to take it seriously when people do a real job to make it work. And it can't be claimed, as far as I can see, that you didn't put the weather conditions on the table when the matter was dealt with at Stortinget in its time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e153	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e156	For most of us who use the airport, it is completely incomprehensible how a perfectly normal winter could lead to as much delays as the usual consumer now experiences. Now I see that the head of the Consumer Council believes that the costs incurred by business and consumers in the major delays at the Gardermoen have to be transferred to the airlines, in order to put pressure on the airlines to increase their punctuality. That the airlines saw in the next round had to go to the airport, that's a completely different matter. My question to the Minister for Transport is as follows: The Council of State sympathises with the kind of thinking that the head of the Consumer Council is saying that consumer pressure is being used to make airlines more responsible for the huge delays that are causing huge costs to society and that are causing not only costs but also considerable irritation to the consumer. Will the Minister for Transport follow that thought, and does the Minister for Transport possibly sympathize with that idea?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e165	There were a lot of questions at once. I'm going to limit myself to answering what I think is the most important thing. It's that I always have the sympathy that consumers, no matter who they are, say what they experience, because that's actually the starting point for others to do their job. It is also the starting point of a democracy that people speak with a strong and clear voice. What I am primarily concerned about is that they should not experience a black player game around the operations of the airport. It's my impression that it's not. It is my impression that both airlines and those operating this airport, as well as the Aviation Agency, based on their professional pride and their desire to do a good job, are prepared to go through all the bottlenecks and remove them as quickly as possible. There have been systematic improvements on a number of points that were critical, and I sympathise with that form of work. And in order to practice what is called the ‘Leadership by walking around’ – translated into trändersk: be present and ask – I also intend to be present and ask questions in the cooperative community that I know exists between the airlines and the airport, simply in order to be able to ask pressing and good questions on behalf of Norwegian consumers and Norwegian customers, which I understood was the representative’s concern.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e174	Christopher Stensaker – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e177	It has been said that it can take up to a year before everything has been put in place at the Gardermoen, and we have now heard that conditions are causing the airlines millions of extra costs and delays – not only at Gardermoen, but also at other airports. We have warned about this in our party since we put Fornebu down. My question is: Will the Minister for Transport improve the conditions at alternate aerodromes and prepare a contingency plan to address such situations, which can also be expected in the future, and will the Aviation Agency provide compensation for the lack of landing opportunities?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e184	Questions related to finance and compensation are still being addressed. I'm not going to go into that. I'm assuming that people do a normal job, that they have a normal dialogue with the people involved, and that under special weather conditions, you tell them about it. We've seen the replacement sites used recently. We know that planes have landed on Leirin and we know that planes have landed on Torp, so we have those possibilities. We also know, as I have experienced it sometimes, that instead of ending up at the Gardermo, I ended up at Sola Airport. It's the experience of anyone who's in the aviation industry in Norway. I have also flooded Sogndal Airport sometimes. It happens. And when that happens, it's important to figure out: is it human power to do something about this? Is there anything you can do to provide exact information? I'm working on the assumption that this is supposed to be the case. That's my basic attitude, and that's what I have to do. As far as Gardermoen is concerned, I have said that I expect everyone who is a leader to stand up and take responsibility either for political management or administrative management, and it is my opinion that people do. It should not be the limit staff who take the noise, but they take the noise and provide service, and then others get to say their own.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e191	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e194	My question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs. Just before Christmas, the Bondevik government had postponed the development of care for the elderly by two years, against the Labour Party's votes. I am now constantly getting enquiries from employees in the care of the elderly and from relatives who are struggling badly because of too little help for care and care for the elderly and severely needing care. Yes, often there are people who are sick and elderly themselves, who have to take the heaviest roofs with senile relatives. Does the Council of State, as SV, mean that the situation is so satisfactory in the care of the elderly that we can further postpone the retirement plan? I have noticed that the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa understands that many municipalities are experiencing problems with the tempo plan. Does Meltveit Kleppa have the same understanding that many elderly and relatives experience problems when they do not receive help?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e203	There is a great need to ensure a more dignified care for the elderly than today. There is also a basis for the broad agreement and the broad agreement that has been in the Grand Duchy about a bet in this area. In the 1999 budget, there is far more than what Gunhild Island here calls a postponement. What was proposed by the Government, which was supported by the majority, was a shift in the rate of investment based on the budgetary situation, but also on signals from some municipalities that needed more time. Let me underline that the Government is simultaneously following up the action plan when it comes to care services. There are 800 new millions in there and a huge effort on more health professionals. The total budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is, in fact, 324 million. kr more in 1999. There is an action plan for more health professionals, which will be followed month by month to ensure both the qualification of the unskilled staff in the sector today and to ensure more training in this sector. I understand those who are concerned that they are not given the care they are entitled to. I'll follow what's now happening in the municipalities, very carefully, and the county will give an overview of the situation to the department by 1 March.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e208	What the Social Minister here calls a displacement is actually a postponement – it's not going to get away from. In addition, the Bondevik government also started cutting the health professionals' action plan, which is very regrettable because the need is very great. The entire Social Committee joined in 1997 to make a promise for the elderly, in line with the proposals of the Labour Party Government, both to ensure the quality of care for the elderly and to take account of the very strong growth in the number of older people. The debate at that time, for those who remember it, was that maybe we didn't go far enough in relation to the big needs. Does government councillor Meltveit Kleppa believe that it is now the elderly who will become the balancing post and take the noise when the local economy is weakened as a result of the government's settlement with the Right and Advance Party? In that case, I would say that then we will hit the weakest of the weakest.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e215	I disagree that an additional effort of almost SEK 1.5 billion in 1999 is to balance with the situation of the elderly. It is wrong to present the central government's management of the action plan for more health professionals as a reduction. The reduction was made in Stortinget, but Gunhild Eyeågen knows that after there is the investment in personnel strengthened year after year. What is in the investment side budget is the addition of 3,700 new building units in 1999 and a new 800 million. kr to be added to this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e221	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e224	The budgetary agreement reached between the Centre Parties and the Right and the Advance Party made a change in the premise for the implementation and deferral of the care of the elderly, that is, the fact that no municipalities that had plans were expected to receive no funds at the rate they expected to receive it. So the starting point for the postponement was the municipalities that had already reported problems. This was debated both during the budgetary procedure of the Ministry of Local Affairs and during the budgetary procedure of the Ministry of Social Affairs here in Stortinget. What has been put in place as a security mechanism is to return to the revised national budget if you feel that there is not enough funding for the municipalities that want to receive money, which want to implement the plans at the rate set at first. Does the Council of State know today whether the allocation is large enough, or whether there are municipalities that are at risk of being refused within the given allocation? Will the Council of State come back to the revised national budget to ensure that the pace of the elderly care reform is maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e229	Let me stress that the Government as well as a whole is committed to strengthening care for the elderly, and that the action plan should be followed as far as possible. We have a separate group in the department that follows the situation in the municipalities and has contact with the county board and county council in each state. We asked for a quick overview just to get to the point that Solberg's representative is now pointing out. February 1 was our first deadline. It was too short for the municipalities, and the new deadline is 1 March. This means that the Government will have an overview of the situation in good time before the revised budget, and will have the opportunity to follow up on the Storting, as foreseen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e234	Sylvia Brustad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e237	I have to say it's something remarkable to listen to the Social Minister. It is clear that what the government here has proposed, with the support of the right, is a breach of promises to the elderly – it is a breach of promises to those who work in this sector, it is a breach of promises to those who now have to take an extra noise on the home arena. The truth is that less money has been allocated to the care of the elderly, less money has been allocated to the local economy than that, among other things. The Labour Party proposed. Is not the real truth in this matter that more than 2,000 older people now have to live longer at home – longer than would have been the case with the proposal originally adopted by the Stortinget, to which the Workers' Party has contributed money – instead of getting its long-awaited nursing home or nursing home, to which the Government was not willing to give money?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e244	The most important thing in this year's budget is that we take seriously the situation of many elderly people in need of help today. They need a service whether they live at home or in an institution, so the care allowance is increased by 800 million. kr in relation to last year. Then it is true, as the representative Brustad pointed out, that originally it was in the 1999 action plan 5 800 new building units, and the government has added 3 700. But there's another side here, which also has to be included in the concept of truth, that there are some municipalities in this country that, to ensure that they get the buildings they want, need some more time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e251	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e254	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Social Affairs a question: On 19 January of this year, a case was brought against the Ministry of Social Affairs by the breweries Aass and Hansa Borg in order to clarify whether they could use the company logo and company name as a theme advertisement. The Ministry of Social Affairs not only lost the case itself, but was also sentenced to pay the counterparty's costs of NOK 227 000. Will the Minister for Social Affairs now change the law, with regulations, so that all companies are allowed to use their company logo in advertising or sponsorship even if they have alcoholic products in their range of products?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e263	The verdict in Oslo Byrett on 19 January came as a surprise to many. I have registered statements from several representatives of the Grand Duchy who were involved in the treatment of the latest amendments to the laws on alcohol in 1997 and who have stated that if this judgment remains, it is not in line with what was Stortinget’s intention. What happened in 1997 was a clarification of the law in relation to the 1975 ban on alcohol advertising. I am now going through both the verdict and the premise for it, to take care of what the Stortinget decided with a wide majority in 1997. I have noticed that the Sports Association has given advice to its members to be careful to enter into new contracts which may involve the same type of advertising as the one that Oslo Byrett found to be acceptable. I have a good cooperation with the Sports Association in this area. They don't want to focus on sports and alcohol together. The appeal period shall be 19 March. I do not want to spend so long looking at how to handle this matter further. I'll probably follow it up in the next week.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e270	I am surprised that the Minister of Social Affairs has not yet been able to take a position on this matter – whether one wants to appeal or will settle with the judgment given in Oslo Byrett. My next question to the Minister of Social Affairs is twofold: How much is the Minister of Social Affairs prepared to spend on taxpayers' money to run this matter further? That's the one. The second thing goes on that was not answered in the first place: If you choose not to appeal the judgment, that the judgment will remain, will you change the regulations so that other companies are also allowed to use their company logo? Because what you're really doing is imposing a ban on advertising for some companies, even if they don't just produce alcoholic beverages. The majority of the product range of several of the companies concerned are non-alcoholic products.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e277	Here were two questions. First, how much money I want to spend. Let me say that I am pleased that I have received support from the Stortingen for a strengthening of the 1999 budget for prevention of children and young people, for stagnant work and also directly expressed support for cooperation between the Ministry and sport and for international involvement in that area in order to achieve more common rules in relation to the enforcement of advertising on this front. So to question number. 2, if the judgment is not appealed, what will be done. It's natural to come back to whether or not it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e287	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e290	I will be allowed to ask a question to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. Municipal Report has just done a survey of 311 municipalities showing that the entire 62 pst. of these municipalities must reduce their services to their inhabitants because of the misery of the economy. It's about school and growth. In other words, children and young people are the hardest hit. Many municipalities are in crisis — they're all cleaning up funds, they're applying for state subsidies next year, and some are unable to balance budgets. These days, the population sends many budgets in return without approval. New rounds are going out in the municipalities and new cuttings. This is the situation after the Central Party has ruled the Ministry of Local Affairs under two budget rounds. It's very small with the beautiful promises the center parties came along before they joined the government. My question to the municipal minister is: Is this the Central Party's new policy towards the municipality of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e299	I'm a little surprised at the angle of the question from a representative of the municipal committee. As a representative of the municipal committee, I assume that Signe Eye is aware that much of the cause of the problems that the municipalities now have is the ringing and the detailed management that is being run against the municipal sector, and not least from the Stortinget side. We had in the Questionnaire earlier today a question about the follow-up of care for the elderly. It is precisely because from government and growing up we control the level of detail in individual areas so much, that the municipalities come up with a situation where they have to cut something out. In order to be able to take out earmarked resources for care for the elderly, they have to cut down in other areas. When so many budgets have been sent back from the statesmen, it is because the municipalities actually destroyed the state budget when they laid down their budgets. Then came the comment of the Social Committee, which made it impossible to follow up what we had tried to open up a little bit of flexibility, namely that we should look at the requirement of activity level in order to get the elderly out. That is the main reason why the budgets are now being sent back. We have asked for an overview from the county councillors before March 1st, to see how this turns out in the individual municipalities. We have also said that in case it turns out to have unintended, negative effects in many municipalities, we have to get back to it in the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e306	This is a discharge. I have not said that this applies to all the municipalities around Norway. But when almost half of the municipalities now have to go back and look at their budgets, and many of these have already reduced their services, then we have to take it seriously. I also think the municipal minister should do that. The Labour Party had more money for the municipalities during the budgetary procedure. But in addition – and that is very important – we would distribute $1 billion to taxpayers, so that we would take something from the tax-rich municipalities and give it to the tax-weak. Just as the grip would have helped many of these municipalities that are now struggling and that have to start cutting new ones. I do not think it should be said that it is the designation from Stortinget that has made the situation so serious in the municipalities as it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e313	The situation of the municipalities is difficult. The vast majority of municipalities are struggling badly financially, and I have never concealed that. The reason we had to present such a tight state budget as we did, but still managed to protect the municipal sector, I assume that I am known in this room. So to what the representative pointed out, that the reason is the budget compromise that was reached here in the Storting, and that I defended when we dealt with our budget. We believe that it is possible to give municipalities a greater opportunity for seafaring to give priority if we were given less designation. I've mentioned that before. I have to remind you that we have actually strengthened the municipal budgets completely over the years that we have been in government. Let me also remind you of one more thing, and that is that according to the municipalities, the main cause of the problems that the municipality has had is three things: the payroll, the interest rate rise and the increase in pension payments. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e322	Number is too long
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e325	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e330	There'll be a lot of follow-up questions, so it'll be time to answer most of the questions. Øystein Hedstrom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e335	Many municipalities in the central part of the country have received large additional costs in connection with the high number of asylum arrivals to the country. The Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research has calculated that the government's policy of spreading asylum seekers across the country has failed. Last Friday, the Council of State visited my own county, Eastfold, in Fredrikstad City, and was informed that the number of asylum applications was over 300 pst. higher than the municipality had planned — with all the extra costs for schools, kindergartens, social assistance payments, housing, interpreting services and much, much more that the municipality has unforeseeablely received. We know that the integration grant disappears after five years, and this is the municipality's financial responsibility. Does the Council of State think that it is right and fair that the municipalities should be charged for all these additional costs?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e344	We have introduced an integration grant, introduced in 1991, which all municipalities receive for the first five years to settle refugees and asylum seekers. It was adjusted from the current year, and it was high time. It had been silent for four years. We have had a policy on this, which has been widely agreed in Stortinget, namely that we should try to spread the settlement of refugees and asylum seekers to as many municipalities as possible. That's the line this government has followed. What is the problem for some municipalities here in central districts is that refugees come here for second residence, and with second residence it does not follow integration grants. Of course, it makes some central strokes get an extra load. I find it difficult to see that we can manage to prevent refugees and asylum seekers from moving, because we allow people to move and live where they want to in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e351	Inger Lise Husøy – to the next additional question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e355	It's a little strange to hear the huge disclaimer from the Center Party when they're in government, with their hands on the steering wheel. During the EU fight, very many people were deceived by the fact that the Center Party in particular said they would control the market forces. The result of the poor municipal economy across the country is now among other things. privatisation and outsourcing, and it is often women's work that is bullied and put on the market. My question is whether the municipal minister has a strategy to prevent too many negative aspects of the competitive outsourcing that is taking place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e362	First of all, I would like to distance myself from being here and relinquishing responsibility. On the contrary. I have taken responsibility since I took over as State Council. There are no parties in the Stortinget that have proposed to increase the framework of the municipal sector so that it would have any impact on the total economy of the municipalities. Let's be clear. So to what is going on privatization and postponement of tenders. It is up to each municipality to decide this. Some municipalities have tried it and tried it. I believe – to be honest – that there are not only economic reasons why some people choose a postponement or privatisation, as some call it. I also believe that political assessments are the cause of what you want politically.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e369	Grethe G. Fossum – for new follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e372	I think this round of questions has shown some perceptive points of view. The Council of State is very afraid to control the municipalities in detail. But I suppose the Council of State is as interested as the Workers' Party in that measures for children and young people must be continued in the municipalities. The measures that are good for children are kindergartens, eartaged, school leisure schemes, eartaged, and those that are good for women are the crisis centres, eartaged. So this is what the Minister of State will have to disappear. She must then also take on the responsibility that the municipalities do not prioritize this. So my question to the Council of State is, when the central party's policy conflicts with the reality that she wants to remove the good measures for children and women, will she accept this responsibility by removing earmarks?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e379	We are now embarking on a broad review in the Government to see what can be done to reduce detail management both in terms of detailed rules towards the local government sector in different areas, and in terms of what can be reduced by earmarked grants. This is not what the representative Fossum says, that the municipalities do not want to build kindergartens, but there are municipalities that do not actually manage to follow up with their peculiarities in order to get the earmarked funds out. This means that many municipalities are in a squandered situation, and that is the situation in which we cannot sit calm and see that the municipalities continue to be in. That's why we have to go through the municipal sector, take it and the municipalities seriously when they say, let's let go of so much detail management. Let's not forget that there are ear-marked grants that make us have to step in with self-esteem to get them out, because that makes us unable to prioritize the areas that we think are most important to our citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e389	Karin Andersen – to the next additional question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e392	First, it's not true what the Council of State says, that no party had proposed a municipal economy that had meant a significant improvement. SV had it, NOK 4.5 billion, and it's a value choice. Our value is different from that of the Government. Our choice of values means that we have room for both the old and the sick and for the child-restraints, for example. But we weren't quite so fussy about those with high incomes that we said it was more important to get zero taxes for them than it was to get money for nursing homes and children's protection. In the municipality of Nes they are now sitting with municipal budgets, where child protection is spent by half a million kroner to get the money out for the care of the elderly. It is true that some of the detailed management has now done so that the care of the elderly has gone ahead. But does the Council of State really think that there is a real conflict the government has set up here, that the conflict should go between the children's protection and the sick and the old? Should it not also go between those who have something to share with, and those who need community help?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e399	First of all, I'm sorry that I said all parties in Stortinget. I forgot about SV. SV had suggested much more to the municipal sector than the other parties. The correctness shall be correct. I am of those who are very sorry about the problems that the local government sector has raised, which means that the municipalities have to do as tough priorities as they are doing now. But I think we should be aware that the situation is very different from the municipality to the municipality. Some municipalities have developed their care for the elderly well and do not actually need an increase in activity. Other municipalities need to expand e.g. the nursery service. What we receive from the municipalities is a reference to the fact that when we control as much detail from the state as we do, the municipalities are not given priority over what they think they need to prioritise. Some municipalities need to give priority to care for the elderly and are grateful for what is now happening. Others have already prioritised it and are in a different situation, namely that they will give priority to kindergartens. It's these municipalities that now get it difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e414	This is a very wide-ranging key issue across the municipal sector, and therefore the President has allowed a number of follow-up questions, which have probably led to the disappearance of some key issues. We will continue with the follow-up questions – Gunhild Eyering.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e419	In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, the municipalities got about NOK 1 billion to go with, and there was also a distribution of NOK 1 billion between rich and poor municipalities. I notice that the Council of State thinks it is de minimis, but I think it would have helped the situation considerably for many municipalities. Then back to the designation of care for the elderly. There I have to remind the Council of State that it was in fact a unanimous decision in favour of the elderly care plan that was promoted by the Workers' Party and that therefore received unanimous agreement in Stortinget. It was with earring to a very large degree, full earring, and it was all agreed on. The background for that was that we have seen what has happened with the will to give exclusive space to everyone, of whom there has been nothing, and with the elderly billion, who in part went to asphalting and street lights, and not to care for the elderly. The size has a credibility problem with regard to the care of the elderly, and it took everyone inward. I want the Council of State to comment on this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e428	I was in Stortinget when the older reform was adopted, and I voted in favour of it. As a major representative, I was in a trade committee and eventually became a professional politician or a sectoral politician. As a municipal minister, I was given responsibility for the entire municipal sector, and I need to see the context in which we are doing. It has taught me a lesson, namely that I believe municipal politicians are right when they say that we control detail too much of what municipal politicians should give priority to. That's what all municipal politicians say, regardless of the party color. I think we're going to take inwards that we have to draw a line between what we leave to our municipal party traps to make decisions about, and what we from collapse and government should determine in detail. It applies in all sectors, not only in the social field.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e436	Erna Solberg – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e439	I am pleased that the Council of State says that as a municipal minister she has learned that there is a need to take full account of it. I hope that this applies not only to earmarked grants, but also to laws and regulations and other matters that we have to deal with. I think this debate we've had now seems a bit confusing. I think it is important for Stortinget to have a proper basis for assessing the local economy. The Council of State mentioned in its answer to the main question that she wanted to return to Stortinget if it turns out that there were problems with these returns from the statesmen. I want to ask the Council of State that she come back to Stortinget with a review of the reasons for all these returns, anyway. I want to stress that it is important to get a sober discussion. The fact is that for a not a little-known municipality in terms of municipal economics, the municipality of Grue, the Labour Party budget would only provide 315,000 kroner in improved municipal economy, and then it is important for us to bring this debate down to the level it deserves when it comes to facts about the local economy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e446	I shall, of course, follow that call and make a review of the reason why these budgets were returned, as Mrs Solberg is now asking. I would assume that the most topical thing to do is to take it into account when presenting the municipal economic proposition for next year, because it would be a useful basis to include when the Storting will deal with the municipal economic proposition for the year 2000. Otherwise, the calculation that Erna Solberg has made to show how much this conversion that the Workers' Party proposed here would have meant for each municipality, correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e453	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e456	I have a question for the Minister of Transport. The Minister of Transport has invited us to do his best to bring down the accident figures on the roads. The issue is both important and necessary. Someone says we have to set the speed limits, but isn't it more important to make sure that the speed limits that are are respected? The prevention is also important in terms of traffic, and that is where my question really comes in. There is a pilot project on helicopter traffic monitoring. I often drive on the E18 on weekends, but to this day I have never seen the helicopter. How does helicopter surveillance work? Is there coordination and connection between the helicopter and the UP? Is this work prioritised during the weekends – Friday traffic from and Sunday traffic into the big cities?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e465	I have no detailed knowledge of helicopter surveillance. Meg acquaintance has the police one helicopter today – that's what the Oslo police have. How this is implemented in practice, I can't answer now, but I'm going to follow it up, of course. I do because I want to see it related to what's going on on the road safety side. The main measures to maintain speed limits include: to have more frequent police controls, and I have noticed with great interest and with great pleasure that the police locally now take the accident figures seriously in all parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e470	Finn Kristian Marthinsen – for additional questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e473	This may mean that this monitoring is taking place, not really under the responsibility of the Minister of Transport, since he cannot say anything about it. Or is it that there is no overview of the results of this business?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e478	The helicopter operations of the police belong to the Ministry of Justice, but of course we need close cooperation. There is close cooperation, and in the near future I will have a working meeting with the Foreign Affairs Department, the Ministry of Justice, Security Traffic, the road authorities and others to look at all aspects of road safety work. I'm going to take with me the question raised by the representative Marthinsen, because we're not going to have anything untapped that could lead to us getting more insight into accidents and what we can do to prevent them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e483	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e486	I have a question for the Minister of Transport. On January 20, a press release from the department was issued in connection with the merger of Telenor and Telia. It states that there is an agreement that the two State owners together shall maintain a minimum holding of 51 pst. in the case of partial privatisation. In today's edition of Today's Business, it says that it is open to full privatisation, and that one of the states can sell itself down without the other possibly agreeing, and that if one state sells itself below 25.5 p.m., that means that the whole shareholder agreement is gone. What I'm asking is, is whether it's true that it's opening up for one state to sell down so that the entire shareholder agreement disappears. In this case, the Ministry has provided some incomplete information in the press release, as there is then too much partial privatisation, possibly total selling, of the merged company.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e496	A statement of intent has been made between the Swedish Minister of Industry and me. It is now being processed, as well as reviewing all aspects of the company. It is clear from that statement that each of the states is aiming to sell down to 33.4 pst. and that you have an opportunity to go to 51 pst. in combination. The statement states that it is 51 pst. You have to stand on. Of course, we want to do the work we do, look at all aspects of that question, but we can't bind future magnification, nor can we bind future Parliaments. But the sitting government and the Swedish government have a clearly expressed intention of holding on to 66,8 p.m. And, if necessary, if you were to do anything, 51 pst. The current government also has a clear policy, namely that no one can impose Norway, for example. to sell below 33.4 pst. These facts are lying there. Other issues relating to how to express the shareholder agreement and the merger agreement so that this is as clear as possible are what we are dealing with in the eight-week period that will now lead to a case being brought before the Stortinget and the Swedish Parliament, respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e505	In reality, the Council of State has confirmed that one of the States can sell completely at any time, in other words, that the agreement of intention only works as long as the two States agree. This includes, inter alia: that the telecommunications network we have in Norway, which is in a way a major year through the country, can be fully privatised. You can't imagine privatising airports and letting SAS take over them, you can't imagine that private companies take over motorways in Norway or the railway network, but the important telecommunications network, which is important for future telecommunications and data communications, can be open to total privatisation. Does the Council of State not see that this is actually a development that is not desirable? Will the State Council consider whether we should not have a state network company, that we separate the infrastructure from the services, that we see the State networks in Statnet, in Telenor and in the NSB as a unit, where the State has control over the infrastructure? That will mean a lot of things, among other things. in order to have an active and good district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e510	It is clear that the two governments in this declaration have clearly stated that there is a partial privatisation and nothing else. But there is a choice, and neither the representative Myrvoll nor I can prevent the Storting from getting a composition that goes across that representative Myrvoll and I think is right now. But what the sitting government and the Swedish government stand for is clear, and I want to make sure that it is also presented to the Stortinget in a way that makes the Stortinget look at all aspects of the matter, because it is the Stortinget that has control of these questions. When it comes to the question of dividing Telenor into a network company and another company for services, which some people have been doing with the idea of, I think it's a little bit of a decent development. It was the last time in Stortinget last year in dealing with some regulatory issues, and to sharpen it to: I think it could quickly end up with the state being left with something that was old-fashioned, while the companies otherwise evolved in such a way that this was not right either for the consumers or for the owners. This is a point where the representative Myrvoll and I do not share the same view.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e519	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e522	I will be allowed to ask a question to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. The Minister recently stated in an interview with Municipal Report that the Ministry worked with specific measures to increase the turnout in the local and county elections of the autumn. According to the interview, it is working on bombs with brochures, posters, election pages on the Internet and other information measures, and that is a good thing. What is alarming about the Minister’s opinion is that she has brought forward a special electoral group against which she wants to target measures, namely immigrants. Does the Minister think it is in principle right for the Ministry and the public to bring forward one electoral group and to develop expensive campaigns to increase the turnout in this electoral group?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e529	What the ministry does is the same thing that has been done before every single election, namely to go out with concrete information on the closure of the election, how people should behave in the election, and not least encourage people to use their voting rights, and it does so without introducing any particular political leadership. This is purely information for the voters. Then, as Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, who is also responsible for integration, I have encouraged political parties to nominate people with a cultural background on their lists. I have also encouraged them to ensure that women's representation in local government is ensured at the next elections. We are also going out with information material for immigrants and refugees who have received Norwegian citizenship and who have lived in Norway for so long that they have the right to vote in municipal elections.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e538	What is now said by the Minister is contrary to what has been stated in the interview in the Municipal Report, for it is stated that the Minister must have said that a particular desire is to direct campaigns against immigrants in order to increase voting participation in this group of voters. At least the Progress Party has strong concerns about this. One should have general campaigns if one wishes to increase the turnout. To this extent, they should be able to be targeted at first-time voters, whether they are Norwegians or non-residents. We have a special situation in Norway in relation to this, as there are actually some people who have the right to vote in county and municipal elections, without Norwegian citizenship. Does the Minister not see any concern that one now wants to direct campaigns specifically against the immigrant groups, which, after all, do not have Norwegian citizenship?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e547	The vast majority of immigrants living in Norway have Norwegian citizenship. Refugees get Norwegian citizenship, but of course they have to live here for a few years. - But leave it alone. I believe it is important to focus all information campaigns on first-time voters and on those groups that have traditionally shown low turnout. I am concerned that we should do what we can to get the best possible integration of our new countrymen. We're working on a wide range to get it done. Among other things, I think it is important that they are also included in e.g. local government and municipal authorities and councils.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e554	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e557	I allow myself to ask questions to the Minister for Transport. We all agree that good communication is a prerequisite for people to live in the districts. On many occasions, the Council of State itself has called for improved collective services throughout the country. However, we now feel that bus routes throughout the country are being closed down, bearing in mind that the compensation for the diesel tax for bus operations does not cover the actual costs. This is clearly contrary to Stortinget’s assumption and to the previous budgetary suspension of the Government, where it was clearly stated that scheduled bus services should be fully compensated for the additional costs entailed by the abolition of the tax exemption. The bus companies are now under-cover in terms of fuel costs of 75-80 million. kr only in relation to regular bus routes. What will the Council of State do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e566	I will deal with the Storting's handling of the matter under the 1999 budget, where it is clear that a compensation scheme has been put in place and not a reimbursement scheme. The numbers are known, the premise is known. What has been a special challenge, and which I follow very closely, is the situation of the express buses, where I have asked for a quick feedback from the industry, first and foremost to ensure that they can get a settlement in terms of liquidity. I know that a few days ago, a return game came after a meeting we had on 6 January. I have also understood Stortinget that the compensation system that was provided for scheduled buses should be similar for express buses. There is one thing I have said that I will follow up. In the case of other scheduled buses, the compensation may also be linked to the county economy. And where you start and stop using the money, as Councillor Queseth Haarstad was in the past, is a separate topic. But I have said that for my own part I will take the initiative to evaluate the system that is still being earmarked for public transport in the counties. As I said during the discussion of the Ministry of Transport's budget for this year, we should look at this, and of course I will also take the initiative to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e576	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am glad that the Council of State got into this with express buses, because the Storting has in fact twice made a decision on compensation for fuel costs, including for express buses. And it's been, when the truth comes out, a little bit of refusal, both from the ministry and from the government. It is not likely that the Ministry of Transport, on a request from the Financial Committee, calculated that the need for compensation for express buses was up to 20 million. kr, while the need actually amounts to 75 million. kr. How could the department count to such a wrong number? That's one question. The size had confidence in the numbers that the department provided, but that is not entirely in line with reality. What will the Council of State do to ensure that scheduled buses and express buses receive the compensation they are actually promised?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e585	In the case of scheduled buses, I have to repeat that I stick to what the Stortinget came up with, both in the context of the handling of the financial situation and the Ministry of Transport budget, both in terms of figures and premises. But of course we've asked the states to report in. With regard to the express buses, it is quite clear that the representative is right that the government did not make any proposals for any amount, because we thought it was administratively difficult. So the Stortinget put in an amount. When I saw the amount, and when I understood the reactions from the industry, the industry immediately got a meeting. It took place on 6 January. There I asked the industry as soon as possible to report to me a form of settlement. I said I was willing to sit down with them to see what was actually the scope of the express bus industry, because I understood the size of the compensation scheme for express buses to be equivalent to the compensation scheme for scheduled transport. I got the first feedback two days ago, and I am therefore unable to say anything more. But I have acted quickly to bring this out into the practical life, according to what I perceived was Storting's intention in the relationship between the scheduled transport and the express buses. In the case of public transport in the counties, we get back to it in budgetary terms. I have expressed my concern about this, but can't say anything more now, for the moment is out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e596	The time for the oral question procedure is also over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e601	There will be a wide range of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 2, 3 and 4 from the representatives of Inger Lise Husøy, Ågot Valle and Per Sandberg respectively to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 13, from Mr Ågot Valle to the Minister for Justice, has been withdrawn. Questions 14-17, from the representatives of Ane Sofie Tömrås, Øystein Hedstrøm, Per Roar Bredvold and Terje Knudsen respectively to the Minister for Justice, will be answered by the Minister for Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Justice, who is in a state of disease. Question 17, from the representative of Mr Terje Knudsen to the Minister for Justice, will be raised by the representative of Mr Jørn L. Stang. Question 20, from the representative Kenneth Svendsen to the Minister for Transport, will be taken up by the representative of Thore Aksel Nistad. Question 25, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs who will direct him. At the request of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, this question is moved and answered in response to question 12, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 31, from the representative of Mr Jan Johnsen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister for Fisheries, this question is moved and answered in response to question 8, to be answered by the same Council of State. Questions 32 and 33, from Bent Hegna to the Minister for Oil and Energy, are postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Questions 34, 35 and 36, from the representatives of Laila Kaland, Gunnar Halvorsen and Grethe G. Fossum respectively to the Minister for the Environment, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 37, from the representative of Gunn Karin Gjul to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Finance who directs him. At the request of the Minister of Finance, this question is moved and answered in response to question 10, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e632	«The Rikskonzerts have distributed the festival support for 1999. In Northern Norway, there is a strong dissatisfaction with the decline in support for the region. While most festivals receive increased support, festivals in the north are not satisfied in the same way. National concerts rely on the regulation and do not take regional policy considerations into account even if the quality requirements are met. Does the Council agree that the emphasis should not also be placed on districts when the festival support is distributed?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e639	In the allocation of festival support for 1999, the Rikskonzerts have taken the view that the grant will contribute to achieving the main objective of State music policy by making music of high quality available to the maximum possible and stimulating artistic renewal and development. I refer in that context to St.prp. No 1 for 1997-98, where the scheme was presented to the Stortinget. Out of 60 applications for festival support for 1999, 38 were granted. Out of a total of eight applications from the three Nordic states and Svalbard, three have been rejected. Two of the three rejections have been granted on the basis of formal criteria, and the third rejection is based on a discretionary assessment, because the festival does not meet the requirements of the guidelines for music festivals. Five out of eight festival support applications from North Norway have thus been granted for 1999. These festivals were also supported in 1998. Four of these five festivals have been maintained or increased compared to 1998. One of these festivals was rejected in 1998. Following a complaint, the Rikskonzerts converted the discount into a grant of NOK 300000 on the basis of the budget input. S. No 2 for 1997-98. The Committee considered that the 1998 allocation would not deviate significantly from the previous year’s allocation without the timely notification of the festivals concerned. After an overall formal, professional and economic evaluation, this festival for 1999 has been allocated NOK 200 000. This has resulted in aid for festivals in North Norway falling from DKK 1875 000 to NOK 1805 000, i.e. a decrease of SEK 70000. I see festival support as a very important tool to strengthen local music life. All music festivals are established by local initiative. They are therefore spread throughout Norway. In all the counties of the country, except for Nord-Trøndelag, one or more music festivals receive state grants. That is why I am also pleased that the Government has proposed and strengthened the music festival support in this year's budget. The draft regulations currently under consideration by the Ministry also provide that the grant scheme should ensure diversity and benefit as far as possible the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e655	I'm a little uncertain as to whether the Council of State really answered my question. What I'm concerned about is whether the Riksconcerts in the Ministry of Culture's developed regulations have coverage so that district policy considerations are not taken into account when distributing festival support. It's not just North Norway. But it is a fact that when 38 festivals are awarded support, 30 have received increased support, while in total North Norway comes out worse than what we have done in the past. So for a big festival like the Nordlysfestival – which has just been closed as a four-day festival with classical music, spun around the Tromsø Symphony Orchestra, and with a flock of voluntary fires that have lasted for 12 years – there has been no room for increases in support since 1992. This is one of many examples. And it's a mathematical fact that the county comes out worse after the Rikskonserts and the department have developed a regulation that I, according to what the Rikskonserts say, perceive so that district policy is not taken into account. Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e664	It is difficult for me to go into the reason for the specific case mentioned by the representative Ludvigsen here. So there are 60 music festivals that have applied for support and 38 that have received. There is now a new rule for evaluation in the ministry. In it it is that the support should benefit the whole country, more clearly underlined than before, and that is, of course, in line with my view. In addition, there is excitement in the Storting that the main purpose of State music policy is to make music of high quality available to the greatest possible extent and to stimulate artistic renewal and development. It is also the case that the festivals supported must have had regional support for three years before receiving state aid.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e673	I am surprised that the Minister of Culture has not been able to say unequivocally from the point of view of ensuring that the whole country comes out well, and that the Minister does not understand that it costs more to carry the Stavanger Symphony Orchestra from Stavanger to Tromsø than from Sola to Sandnes. It's a cultural freight balance that should actually be used when the quality criteria are met. This has been done at the festivals in the north, as support has been given, but one has not been willing to give priority to distance and distance costs in the most distant districts away from the Riks Concerts. I have to ask the Council of State to look at the regulation and instruct the Rikskonserts to take district policy considerations as long as the quality is met. If not, I don't think the Storting's intention to bring culture out to the greatest possible extent in the country is being fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e680	I cannot understand that the representative Ludvigsen should be dissatisfied with what I said in my reply. I have even pointed out that we have a new rule for assessment in the ministry, and it is clearly stated that the aim is to ensure diversity, and that the scheme benefits the whole country as much as possible. Of course, we'll follow that up. Now the Riks Concerts have been delegated to manage the festival support, and we have had a professional selection to prepare this for the government of the Riks Concerts. As the representative may be familiar with, they've withdrawn, so there's some work that's left in this regard. For 1999, the board of directors of the Rikskonzerts has made the distribution according to the current regulations. However, we are working on a new regulation, and I can assure Ludvigsen that my intention is that this money used to spread music of high quality and ensure artistic renewal will also benefit the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e717	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time. Question 5 is from the representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Peacekeeper Frank Gundersen is not present in the hall, so we go to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e725	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The population of Greenlandese herring is now around 2.1 million individuals. There are also large populations of both poppy and Greenland sells in the West. According to the researchers, the cell stock eats far more than the Norwegian fisherman stuff to fish in a good quota year. The growth of today's modest hunting pressure is very high. Does the Council agree that the growth of the stock of seals and other marine mammals has become a problem for the total management of the Barents Sea, and will he do something to correct it?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e734	Let me first point out that in recent years the question of self-anguish in the West and the East has been discussed in a joint working group set up within the framework of the Joint Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission. The mandate of the Working Group has included mutual reporting on catch and research in recent years, stock assessment, preparation of proposals for catch quotas and other regulations for future seasons, mutual information and agreement on research cooperation for subsequent years. In the case of recommendations on allowances, the Working Party shall be based on the advice provided by the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea. According to new censuses carried out with heat-enhancing cameras, the population of Greenlandese islands has now estimated up to 223,000 animals. Although there is an increased estimate for young production, researchers have recommended only a cautious increase in the withdrawal rate, so that the total quota is set at 31 600 adult animals. Following negotiations with Russia, Norway has been allocated a quota of Greenlandese salmon in the Baltic Sea of 5000 adult animals. The rest of the quota has been allocated to Russia and, for the taxation of sales in the Baltic Sea, it is of great importance that the Russian self-anxiety is maintained. Marine mammals may have different implications for fisheries. In an area such as the Barents Sea, where fishing is restricted by quotas to protect fish stocks, fish-eating sea mammals could lead to reduced quotas and thus adversely affect fishing. Other examples of the importance of marine mammals may include the spread of parasites from marine mammals to fish and damage to fishing gear. On the other hand, fisheries may affect marine mammals, both negatively and positively. A comprehensive five-year research programme on marine mammals was launched in 1989 with a view to gaining better knowledge of the role of marine mammals in the marine ecosystem. The results of the programme confirmed that marine mammals play an important role in the overall ecosystem. Increased knowledge of marine mammals is very important for overall resource management. Fisheries authorities are generally committed to facilitating the sustainable exploitation of different populations of marine mammals. If we are to be able to create a self-governing diet based on a higher output than today, we need to create a basis for profitability. I would therefore like to give the traditional self-afraid as well as the whaling framework conditions that enable the catch to be maintained in the future. Today, the market for furskins and other cell products is poor, so there is no profitable catch. A sharp immediate increase in catch quotas would not be a market basis for disposal. Therefore, the Norwegian authorities are working on this issue and we support information work with the aim of creating a basis for better market opportunities for sales and so on. Finally, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Fisheries, when it comes to fixing coastal fishing quotas in 1999, has increased its quotas in line with the recommendations of the researchers on the basis of a social assessment. This includes, inter alia: justified by the fact that in some areas sales create problems for fishing and industrial activities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e749	I thank the Minister for the answer, which was good enough. However, I understand the Minister for Fisheries that the stock in the Baltic Sea is so large that it should be reduced in the long term and that, in any case, the stock will be able to withstand a much higher hunting ceiling than is currently the case. The problem, as presented by the Minister for Fisheries, is therefore on the fishing and marketing side – not least because of the large, destructive campaigns carried out by fundamentalist animal protection organisations, without an understanding of sustainable management practices. As a result, will it be expected that the Government will already grant additional funds for upgrading the skills in the field of selling and whaling and for the marketing and export of products of whales and seals at the time of submission of the State budget for the year 2000?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e754	The write-up obtained from the cell stock in the East ice is based on better counting systems by using a heat-seeking camera, and it itself has not changed the size of the cell stock. We might have gotten more accurate numbers. We must now await the researchers' assessment of what this will mean for both the need and the possibility of taxation. So we have to decide when the researchers have made their recommendations for the year 2000. As regards budgetary measures, support for self-afraid is an annual theme in the discussions with the Norwegian Fisheries Team in the context of the negotiations on the fisheries aid agreement. In recent years, funds have been allocated in the aid agreement to subsidise and influence the maintenance of a self-afraid. This is still being done, but I cannot, of course, prejudge the budgetary situation for the year 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e761	Then we go back to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e767	I'm sorry for the absence, President. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has invited 10 Cuban journalists to attend a seminar on, inter alia, freedom of expression. The costs, 250,000 kroner, are paid by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Since it must be assumed that any journalist is aware of the essential features of freedom of expression, does the Council of State consider that this is the tax money well spent?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e778	There is a great need for political and economic reform in Cuba. The government hopes that dialogue and contact with the country can promote these reforms. That is why the Government has launched broad cooperation to support the development of democracy in the country. The exchange of visits at political level has continued. Norwegian-based seminars on freedom of expression and human rights have also been initiated. During Secretary of State Janne Haaland Matlary's visit to Cuba in September 1998, a seminar on the role of the media in the modern world was organised, involving Norwegian and Cuban journalists. The seminar gave rise to a wide-ranging discussion of issues related to the position of the media in both the Norwegian and Cuban communities. This seminar will be followed up by a new seminar in Oslo this month. Issues related to freedom of expression and the press will be central. In addition, attention will be paid to technical innovations in the use of Norwegian media, working methods and editorial aspects in the Norwegian press. By establishing contacts between representatives of the Norwegian and Cuban media, we want to help Cuban media representatives become familiar with how the press merges in an open and democratic society like the Norwegian one. This hope we will be an important contribution to bringing development to Cuba in a direction I suppose everyone thinks is right. I therefore believe that the investments in question are well-used funds, and in line with the Government's efforts to promote democracy and human rights. As part of the dialogue with Cuba, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will conduct a Norwegian-Cuban seminar on human rights in Havana in the first half of March. A number of countries now focus on various forms of democracy promotion in Cuba. The government has noted with interest that in the United States too there is now some movement in the relationship with Cuba.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e793	It's not a large amount of money, but from my point of view, it's a typical example of unnecessary use of money, especially in the case of a budget where it was very important to limit the government's expenditure. It was presented by the Minister of Finance. I see that ordinary journalists, including those in Cuba, are familiar with democracy and freedom of the press. It's completely unnecessary to tell them about it. It is not primarily those who need such information. I really don't think this was a good idea. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, which he has already replied to, if not this is unnecessary let go of particularly busy people in the case of a tiny island in the Caribbean.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e802	The size of the island we can probably agree on, but it has proven that it is not necessarily exactly the geographical size that is crucial to the political potential and political explosiveity. If we look back a little bit in history, Cuba's relationship with Russia, or the Soviet Union as it was at the time, was in itself the possibility of a nuclear war. As a result, developments in Cuba have not been entirely immaterial in a major political context. But in addition to that, we think it's a point that the situation is improving in Cuba. I guess that's right, as Gundersen's representative says, that there's a part of democracy here. But if that were the basis for everything we did, it meant that we didn't have to pursue foreign policy. For most people, there is some knowledge of principles and ideas, but that's the implementation it lacks, and there I think we from Norway can be useful.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e809	Then we go to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e816	I will allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The Ministry of Fisheries has fixed the date of cutting in trawl fishing for Norwegian herring herring until 2 January 1998. Shipowners feel unfairly treated and believe that the decision will create unstable conditions for the trawling industry. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to set a date of interception with retroactive effect?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e825	Initially, I would like to point out that the regulation of fishing for Norwegian spring herring is laid down for one year at a time, with effect from 1 January to 31 December. The regulatory framework for each regulatory year is the result of a process including: Council of Regulators, recommendations from the Directorate of Fisheries and political decisions. The barrels were for the first time subject to a separate concession scheme for fishing for Norwegian spring herring in 1998. Vessels authorised to fish Norwegian whiting herring with trawl were allocated maximum quotas for 1998 in accordance with the same principle as purse seiners but with gross tonnage as a parameter. Therefore, in order to maximise predictability when the factor for fishing by the trawler group for Norwegian herring herring was to be determined in 1998, the base quota of each vessel was based on the gross tonnage shown by the vessel's letter of measurement per year. 2 January 1998. In ship groups regulated within a group quota, increasing allowances for some vessels will necessarily lead to lower allowances for the other vessels. In 1998, when the Ministry of Fisheries laid down more liberal replacement rules for parts of the North Sea trawls, this has been justified by the need for larger and more appropriate vessels, especially in the fisheries for sandeel and eels. However, access to the replacement of its vessel with a larger vessel shall not give rise to a larger quota. In my opinion, it would be unfortunate for one to take account of changes in the gross tonnage of vessels during the year. This implies that the allowance will remain unchanged irrespective of remeasurement, conversion, replacement or other change. The principle also applies in the event of a possible change of ownership. This gives predictability to all the vessels in the group, as their quota is not affected by the extension of other vessels during the year. In addition, we have the experience of other regulatory groups that moving the date of allowance calculation creates a replacement and extension motivation that is based solely on the fact that it will give greater allowances. If everyone in this way changes to a larger vessel, we're finally left with a group of larger and more expensive vessels than necessary, and everyone has the same quota as when the replacements started. Consequently, the fisheries authorities chose to maintain on 2 January 1998 as the date for calculating the quotas also in the 1999 Regulations. In line with practice, if quotas were to be introduced in fisheries which are currently not regulated, the ship's size or concession capacity would be the result of the introduction of allowances that will be used. The movement of the cutting date will be assessed in the context of the annual regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e844	The point here, which I would like to mention, is that when the concession scheme was introduced on 2 January 1998, there was no signal from the government that this should have a retroactive effect, so that the owners of a good number of vessels that were granted renewal permits feel a little unfairly treated because they did not receive a signal at the time that they, even if they were given renewal permits, could not count on larger quotas and could not count on another date either. The Council of State now gave a reasonable positive response, in which it opened to both change the date and, where appropriate, introduce quotas for some others. But the retrospective is the point, and it seems to me a little too random. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State for retroactive power is something that will be implemented later.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e849	I disagree a little with using the term retroactive force, because the quota share is set in relation to the size of the vessel when the concession scheme was introduced in 1998, and the quota share of the vessel has followed the ship from 2 January 1998, when the concession scheme was introduced. And it's a principle that follows all the other regulations, e.g. for ring nets and trawls, where changing the vessel's size does not affect the vessel's quota. It's the concession rules that do it. But we're working on establishing the so-called concession volume for this group. That work has not been completed. Of course, we will come back to all the questions that are still not settled and that have been addressed by the industry. But I'm still on what I said in my first answer, I think it's the right solutions for the group.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e856	The council and I are not sure that it was a proper date. But I am pleased with what the Minister for Fisheries has said, namely that one will assess this, and that there is one thing going on. In his first post, he mentioned size and safety, and I agree with the Council of State that it is important when renewing the boats, that a person takes care of safety and the working environment. But then I find it a little unnatural that the owner of a boat that was listed, did not get permission for a new boat that was bigger and safer than the old boat, with the reason that he then expected new quotas. This is also the case with the 28-meters that are now coming up, which increases capacity, and on which the Council of State was also involved was a little unlucky. But I understand that the Council of State is now willing to look at the date of the shooting, and then we're going to follow it on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e863	The representative addressed a number of non-questioning issues. I have not stated that I think there are some unfortunate developments with the 28-metre vessel – let's say that. That's going to be another question. As I said in my first answer, the intersection date is the theme when determining the regulation for each year. We have some experience, including: from the cod fisheries, where the date of cutting has been moved, which was an incentive to extend the vessels in order to obtain larger quotas. So from this very experience, we have now actually decided not to move the intersection date. The industry, of course, has its views on this, but in the context of the introduction of concession arrangements for that part of the North Sea trawler fleet, quota changes on regulated fisheries have not been the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e873	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The Fish and Fishery Products Regulation Act established The Fish Export Committee is, to a large extent, part of the fishing industry and should be subject to the same legislation as fish and fishery products. [[selling and pain]] Will the Council of State take the initiative to amend the legislation so that the Committee of Fish Exports can also provide support for the self-employed and the skilled?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e882	Initially, I would like to stress that the Committee on Fish Finances its activities through an annual export tax and the deduction of the export tax calculated by the value of the fish products covered by the Act. In other words, this is not an aid granted by the Committee on Fish Exports, and it has been suggested that expenditure and revenue per year. the industry over time shall balance fairly. If sales and whale products were to be included in the regulation of exports of fish and fishery products, these products would also have to pay a fee to the Fish Export Committee. Selling and whale products have never been covered by the law, nor by the previous law on fish exports from the post-war period. As the representative of Bastisen is aware, the export of whale products is currently regulated in a separate regulation under the law on import and export regulation. Furthermore, the fish export selection has an important role to play in the joint marketing of fish in Norway. In Finland, the Fish Export Committee has also carried out campaigns for whale meat, funded by resources from industry and the public. For several years, catches of marine mammals have met with considerable resistance in some countries and organisations. In addition, the sales of self-anxious products are primarily fur products, which do not belong naturally to the Export Committee for Fish. Counter-representatives could be generated against products of marine mammals being profiled as part of the ‘Seafood from Norway’, not least in the rest of the world. I therefore do not see that the time has come to take the initiative to amend the Fish Exports Act in accordance with the questions asked by the representative of Bastesen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e895	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The export selection for fish is financed by fees. It is quite clear that the whaling industry and marine mammals do not have any problems paying taxes as soon as we start exporting. So that's the smallest thing in the world. The question of information about our capture of marine mammals has materialized as an application from the High North Alliance was rejected. Through our efforts to inform and participate in conferences on marine mammals, we have been given insight into what is happening in the protest industry around the world, with the attacks directed at other fisheries. I am thinking in particular of the environmental labelling and the issues that have arisen. It is of great importance that we are allowed to continue that work, and that should be a task for the Fish Export Committee. And does the Minister for Fisheries not see that this is also a contribution to establishing that marine mammals are also an important part of the fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e902	Of course, the Minister for Fisheries sees that marine mammals are an important part of the Norwegian fishing industry, and that is a very important and high priority part of the fisheries policy. I can assure the representative of Bastesen. When it comes to the practical question, that export legislation should be amended in order for the Committee on Fish to have marine mammals within its remit, I have to maintain what I said in my first answer, that I do not see that the time is ripe for it. If so, the Ministry of Fisheries would not have any authority to instruct the bodies of the Committee on Exports to use their resources. I can also refer to the budget for this year, where the Ministry of Fisheries has increased the framework for grants to organisations to carry out information work on the marine mammals, which, of course, also the High North Alliance will benefit. The increased framework that we have adopted in the budget for that area shows that we are prioritizing precisely the area where the Bastisen is going.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e911	I thank you again for the answer, but I am not satisfied that you still don't find the time to look at a code that it might take a year or a half to change. I am convinced that when that time has passed, when the legislation may be in place, then the time is ripe, because it is already over-ripe to see these things in context. There is a clear link between marine mammals, catches and fisheries. Today, we have clear evidence that the marine mammals eat much more than what we fish commercially in the Barents Sea and in our areas. Then it's time to start looking at laws and regulations, so that you can see this in its entirety, and you don't have one special code for fisheries and one for marine mammals. You have to take the consequences of what's happening in the industry as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e916	The Committee for the Export of Fish is a body established by the Export Act to ensure the common export interests of the industry. Before I see it right to go to a change in that law, there must also be signals from the industry that they want to expand their work. As I said, there probably will be different interests in the industry related to that very question. What I understood lay as a background for the representative Bastesen's question, related to the administrative aspect of the marine mammals themselves. I don't think it just belongs naturally under export law. We're trying to prioritize and contribute to a more intensive information work in the coming year, up to the next CITES meeting in particular. So that's going to be a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e923	So we go to question 31.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e929	This question, from the representative Jan Johnsen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e932	I have the following questions: ‘In the context of the handling of the Sustainable Development Communication by the Storting, there have been indications to increase, inter alia, the industry’s ability to use alternative energy. It is therefore with amazement that I read in the invitation to apply for support for heating systems in 1999 that this is reserved for construction over 1500 square metres, with a power demand of at least 50 kWh. Why are small and medium-sized enterprises thus cut off from being eligible for aid?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e941	On behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, I would like to make the following statement: The Ministry has proposed a wide range of measures to promote energy efficiency and the increased use of renewable energy sources. As part of this, the NVE has established an investment aid scheme for projects that result in sustainable production of bio-fuels or heat use based on new renewable energy sources and waste heat. For energy end-users, the scheme is targeted in particular at larger buildings such as professional buildings, multi-dwelling houses and industry. It is important to emphasise the need to maximise the impact of the funds allocated to the State budget, which means that the characteristics of the projects to be supported must be required. The requirement for a total heated area of more than 1500 m2 regardless of the number of buildings is an example of this. Such a requirement may stimulate cooperation between smaller end-users and the development of close and district heating networks. Thus, it may be possible to exploit the benefits of building shared heating centres for groups of buildings where each building can have an area significantly lower than 1500 m2. In other words, such a requirement does not necessarily prevent small and medium-sized enterprises from exploiting alternative energy but can contribute to increased cooperation and more efficient use of the available resources.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e950	I thank you for the answer, which I was not satisfied with. I am fully aware that small and medium-sized enterprises have the opportunity to absorb alternative energy. It should just be missing that they don't have the same possibilities as everyone else. But what I'm amazed at is that this government, which has gone out and fought for the lives of small and medium-sized enterprises, here in an alternative energy scheme, has elegantly omitted the possibility for these companies to apply by setting the criteria to 1500 m2 and 50 kWh. I think that is wrong with initiating new energy sources in these small and medium-sized enterprises. Does not the Minister see the possibility of getting these into the field and getting them to help pull the load on everybody wants, namely getting more alternative energy into our businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e957	I believe that the representative Jan Johnsen understands that the Minister for Fisheries cannot go into the details of the discussion on this matter. But I'm going to promise that the issues he raises in his supplementary question, I'll make sure that the oil and energy minister is handed over, so that it can be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e962	I thank you again for the answer, to which I was now very positive. I think it was a good answer the minister gave. The reason why I am asking this question today and not postponing it for the next time, when the Minister of Energy may be present, is that there is an application deadline for this which expires in March. In order to be able to give signals to small and medium-sized enterprises, they must be given quickly. I am therefore pleased that the Minister will inform the Minister for Oil and Energy of this issue. I hope that this government, which has so highly profiled small and medium-sized enterprises, will get them in, so that they will also have the opportunity to apply for this. Indeed, it may be important for these companies to enter, because some of them may be large enterprises in the future, which have started with alternative energy at an important time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e969	We go back to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e975	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘The size has on several occasions asked for the organisation of the provision of new cars free of charge for educational purposes in connection with, inter alia, the training of car mechanics. In this respect, the Ministry has made it conditional on the motor vehicle being damaged and it is not considered to be negotiable. This is not in line with Storting's intention. What will the Council of State do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e984	In St. prp. No 1 for 1998-99, Tax, Fee and Customs Decisions, the Ministry proposed to include an explicit provision in the Stortingen Tax Decision exempting a one-off charge for vehicles for educational purposes. The proposal was intended to establish a regulatory framework for the ministry's long-term practice of exempting such vehicles if the vehicle was not negotiable. As indicated in the text of the proposal, it was provided that the proposed exemption should only be a codification of past practice. The proposal was endorsed by Stortinget. I believe that any extension of the exemption to sellable vehicles should also be considered in order to have unfortunate aspects. Such an extension could motivate tax speculations and adverse infectious effects. That condition should therefore be continued for control reasons. Moreover, the issue could be resolved by a conversion of the one-off charge from an entry fee to a registration fee. The Directorate for Customs and Taxation is working on technical arrangements for such conversion. Extensive investigations are required before a conversion can be carried out, so that it is difficult to identify when the scheme can be implemented. The work is, however, a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e993	At best, there is inaccuracy on the part of the Minister of Finance when he refers to the fact that in the 1998-99 budget proposal it was decided to specify, codify, a previously established practice. There is nothing in the papers submitted to the Stortinget. The problem is that the practices that have been followed in the past have led to a car to be used for educational purposes either being immersed in salt water or being put on slightly to make it available. It is not practical in the situation we have today, where we constantly need new cars for educational purposes in order to ensure the road safety of a car park, taken care of by young people who are going to learn a profession. I would like a slightly more complete answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1000	Whether it's the Minister of Finance or the representative of Dalheim who's not exactly here, I think I'll leave it to the audience to assess. I think it's necessary to refer to what's in St.prp. No 1 for 1998-99 Tax, tax and customs decisions, to which the Stortinget joined unanimously according to the suspension : ‘The Ministry receives from time to time an application for exemption from the one-off charge for vehicles for educational purposes. If the vehicle has been considered not to be marketable, the Ministry has considered the risk of charging speculation or adverse infectious effects to be small and has granted exemption from the fee obligation. The Ministry has not received any information indicating that the scheme has been abused. It is therefore proposed that the exemption be codified and that an explicit provision be included in the tax decision exempting a one-off fee in such cases. Detailed conditions will be laid down in the Regulation.’ The Financial Committee has unanimously agreed to this, and it has been adopted in the Grand Duchy. I have then understood that I have joined what is described in St.prp. No 1st@item:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1010	I would just like to stress that the interpretation that the Ministry has put forward and the regulations that are now on the table for those who are going to have cars for educational purposes are not in any way satisfactory. The starting point we have through the Ministry's interpretation and regulation will not give the opening The Stortingen is looking to get cars without charge to schools. It is difficult for me to understand that there should be a problem related to a car that is made available and not registered, that there should be an uncertain case in a charging speculative context. We can, of course, have the situation that in Stortinget we have to come back with even more concrete proposals, because the Stortinget is set to do so. Here we have had unanimous comments and proposals in the past. So if that's what's necessary, we just get to do it, but it's very unfortunate that it has to be so difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1017	It has not been my intention to be difficult in this matter. It is clear that there has been a communication failure here. That the representative of Dalheim believes that what is happening is not satisfactory, I can understand. Now it is possible that this will solve itself when you get a new way of charging this one-off fee. As I mentioned in my post, it is likely in a while, although I cannot say exactly when. But I have to take seriously that the committee has had no objection to what is written in St. pp. No 1, and there it was explicitly said that it was about non-saleable cars, and that what you were now looking for was simply to codify a practice that you have had for many years. I hope that there will be no evil blood between the Financial Committee and the Minister of Finance for this reason. If it is desirable to change already before any conversion, we should consider it. This was not done in this case because the Ministry of Finance only codified an already existing practice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1029	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘Travelers from abroad to Norway with aeroplanes wishing to take advantage of their duty-free allowance are referred to to act on departure abroad and then take this with them on the aeroplane back to Norway. Does the Council of State see major problems in allowing the tax-free trade to take place on arrival in Norway where tax-free shops exist?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1038	Under the applicable legislation, duty-free sales of goods at aerodromes are only permitted in connection with departure from Norway. The goods are then sold for export from the country and the exemption from the duty is in accordance with the otherwise applicable general rule that sales for export are not subject to national charges. In the case of any duty-free sale on arrival, this assumption will not be present. The sale is then for consumption in Norway. Therefore, arrival sales will break with the general principle that goods purchased and consumed here in the country are also subject to charging here. By opening up easier access to tax-free goods even on arrival, tax-free sales could increase at the expense of domestic sales. Therefore, it may be a concern to establish mechanisms that further eliminate us from a system of regular, duty-paid turnover. The control aspects of arrival sales are not further clarified. However, it must be assumed that significant changes must be made at aerodromes in terms of access to arrival areas, location of points of sale, etc. The customs duties will need to be extended accordingly. Furthermore, it must be possible to expect a pressure to have similar arrangements when entering with other means of transport, such as ferries, trains and private cars. There are only a few countries that allow arrangements for sales of arrivals. With the exception of Iceland, the other Nordic countries also practise tax-free sales only on departure. I would also like to emphasise that free sales on journeys within the EU will cease from 1 July 1999. I can't see that Norway should go into such a situation in order to extend the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1054	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Of course, this is no big deal, but the system of bringing its beloved tax-free quota into Norway is currently functioning in a way that has become very impractical for the air travellers. One might wonder what it really is like to be safe when 200 passengers might take 400 litres of beer, a couple of hundred litres of wine and 200 litres of flammable liquid, which alcohol must be said to be, and put it under seats, into luggage racks and fill up before cramped aeroplanes. There is a risk of safety concern when allowing the storage of such flammable goods — equivalent to a cask of 200 litres of flammable liquid — within an aeroplane. It results in a not insignificant increase in fuel consumption, and it is also impractical. Of course, it would have been possible to do this since it is possible to do it in Iceland. And I'm probably disappointed with the Council's response. Is it really that this can't be done? In practice, this should be possible also in Norway and not just in Iceland.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1063	Of course it would be possible. If it was highly desirable to have a change, it would of course be possible, even if I pointed out some problems that would arise from such a conversion, to be able to buy the tax-free goods on arrival in the country. I think it is a bit striking that in Norway, in a situation where the whole tax-free system is now to be phased out in the EU, it is estimated that this tax-free sales will be optimised in order to obtain a greater share of turnover in this way compared to the normal way of trading via the Vinmonopolet. I had probably seen it as more natural that, in the current situation, it would be a better idea for Norway to think in the same ways as the EU, namely to wind up the tax-free sale and make sure that more came into ordinary trading forms at the Vinmonopolet. It could also provide a multi-progeny that could be used to reduce the charges involved in the context of the border-trade problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1070	I thank you for your answer. And as I said, I am reasonably disappointed by the lack of willingness of the Council of State to do something about this matter, as it is clear that something can be done about it. But it was a little interesting that the Council of State put in an alcohol policy point of view here, as he mentioned that this sale could be moved to more regular outlets in Norway, i.e. broadly speaking, the monopoly of wine. It has a charging element in it, if you look at it from that point of view. Now, Norwegian alcohol taxes are sky high compared to other levels in Europe. Should not, in the case of the tax-free system disappear, consider harmonizing the Norwegian level of alcohol duty more with that in EU countries? Could the Council of State say a little bit about that?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1075	Well, that's exactly what was in my high opinion about what should be done, if any. Instead of streamlining and increasing the scope of the tax-free trade, one should think in those ways if one could not complete the whole tax-free system. It would provide a good deal of proceeds that, if you wanted to, you could use to reduce the general taxes on alcohol and thus also limit border trade. So if Andersen and I are in line there, we can further develop this idea instead of streamlining the tax-free trade.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1080	Now we go to question 37.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1086	This question, from the representative of Gunn Karin Gjul to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Finance who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1089	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: ‘The electricity charge charge for electric bicycles was abolished from 1 January 1999. Such an exemption would make it more profitable to fire oil rather than electricity in central heating boilers. Based on previous years' experience, around 2 TWh will move from electricity to oil. This implies an increase in CO2 emissions by 600 000 tonnes, corresponding to 1,6 pst. increase compared to 1997 levels. What will the Council of State do to prevent CO2 emissions from increasing as a result of this conversion?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1098	The premise of the exemption from the tax on electricity supplied to users with electric boilers has changed since it was introduced in 1971. By greatly reducing the sulphur content of the fuel oil, the oil used in electric boilers no longer emits as much sulphur as it did when the exemption was introduced. The environmental exemption today has such an interest in terms of total energy consumption, the use of alternative energy sources and CO2 emissions. The exemption helped to favour the use of electricity over biofuels in the boilers. An important reason for removing the exemption was to stimulate the use of alternative energy sources. In addition, the exemption itself may have led to an increase in electricity demand even during the period when the demand for electricity was otherwise high. The exemption may have contributed to increased net imports of force. Should the exemption increase CO2 emissions, this should be met with aggravating climate instruments that are more accurate than an exemption from the electricity charge. Another reason for removing this exemption is that it was difficult to practice, and that it seemed unreasonable to subscribers who had to pay a full fee. The representative Gjul refers to previous years' experience and assumes that around 2 TWh of electricity consumption will be replaced with oil. This estimate may appear high, especially in view of the fact that the industry will continue to be exempt from electricity taxes. The industry exemption means that less than half of the electricity consumption in the electric boilers is now subject to the electricity charge. Between 1993 and 1996, non-industry consumption averaged 3 TWh. The degree of transition from the use of electricity to fuel oil in electric boilers depends on the technical constraints of the boilers and the prices of the respective products. Many of the boilers, especially the smaller ones, can only use light fuel oil, which is significantly more expensive than heavy oil. The large boilers are mainly used by the industry and still have tax exemptions. Based on the list prices of oil companies, fuel oil prices may not differ significantly from the price of electricity at present. In the case of small quantities of heating kerosene, the price will be slightly higher than for electricity. When you buy large quantities, it could be the opposite. However, this price ratio could change much over time as a result of large fluctuations in prices of unpriority power. Both the price of oil and the price of electricity are historically low, and it is uncertain how they will develop. It is therefore not obvious that we will have a great transition from the use of electricity to oil. The government provided for the introduction of a land tax on fuel oil in the previous state budget. The basic fee was proposed, inter alia: in order to prevent a significant transition from the use of electricity for the use of oil, but the proposal was not adopted by the Stortinget. The government will assess the development of the use of fuel oil in 1999 and assess the need to introduce a base tax on fuel oil.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1115	I thank the Minister for the answer. I agree with his analysis, that removing the exemption from the electricity charge on electric boilers can probably help to bring down the electricity consumption. Such an exemption from the electricity charge can in itself be positive if it contributes to the transition to more environmentally friendly forms of energy. But as long as this measure is not related to the transition to the establishment of heat pumps and bioenergy, it has such effects as I have outlined in my question. The amount of effect it will have is a little bit uncertain. But there is no doubt that when oil and electricity compete for oil, there is an increased transition to oil. In the follow-up to the Kyoto agreement, the majority want to step down oil firing while we want a transition to bioenergy and heat pumps to be phased in. We know that today's oil fire covers 10-15 pst. of stationary energy consumption [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1122	No, the President believes that this should be done within the set speaking time. This to think about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1125	It will not be easy to guess what the representative Gjul had intended to ask.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1130	She'll have another chance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1133	I appreciate that Gunn Karin Gjul has an environmental exposure. I've noticed that for a long time. But I'm not so sure that limiting CO2 emissions, which is a key point here, is going to happen by stimulating the best possible use of electricity. We know that there is a shortage of electricity in Norway during periods, and that a lot of electricity has to be imported, and we know that part of that production is not very environmentally friendly at all. So it's asking what's the most environmentally friendly, using oil or using imported electricity. I also believe that if CO2 emissions are to be reduced as much as possible — and this is what we will do — it is more appropriate to use climate policy instruments, primarily the CO2 tax, to achieve this, and also to stimulate, as Gunn Karin Gjul mentioned, the exploitation of other alternative energy sources.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1140	I will try to spend my time well, so that I may ask a follow-up question to the Council of State: will the Council of State and the Government come back with a decommissioning plan in relation to the use of oil firing, in line with the intention of Storting, to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions CO2? And you want to come back with that, for example. in connection with the follow-up of the Energy Law Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1145	To ensure that there is no misunderstanding that this is a struggle between the Workers' Party and the government parties, I would like to remind you that the Workers' Party also voted to remove the electricity tax exemption for electric boilers. And then, of course, in retrospect, it might have more effects than you thought about on the go. But I think the Labour Party and the government parties have a common interest in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, CO2 emissions. As I said at the end of my post, we will follow developments in the use of fuel oil in 1999 and, if necessary, consider coming back with a proposal for a base charge that will increase the price of oil and perhaps reduce its consumption. Such a proposal was promoted by the Government, but did not receive a majority in the Grand Duchy. There might be more possibilities if we were to come back with this proposal later.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1153	We then go back to question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1159	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Vestre Toten Municipality has become aware that the border dispute between West and East Toten Municipality is to be settled by a Royal Resolution on the eve of Friday. The case concerns an area of 12,2 square kilometres and covers about 550 inhabitants. Why is the matter suddenly so urgent that it should be decided in the Council of State without prior local information and process?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1168	Formal proceedings under the municipal division law have been ongoing since November 1995, when a local action group addressed the State of Oppland with the proposal that Kolbu be transferred from the municipality of Vestre Toten to the municipality of Østre Toten. A smaller area is proposed to be transferred from the Østre Toten municipality to the municipality of Vestre Toten. The border proposal is based on the boundaries of the inter-municipal kindergarten in the area. The proposal for a border change has been addressed in both the municipalities concerned. The municipalities disagree with the question of transfer. The local government of West Toten believes that the current border should be maintained essentially, while the Eastern Toten municipal government has given its principal agreement to change the municipal border. The State of Oppland has sent the matter to the Department for examination and the Ministry has carried out an inspection in the area. Meetings have also been held in the Ministry with the two municipalities and action groups. The case has thus been dealt with in depth, but is now well established and ready for decision. Since we are now in a year of local elections, I believe that border control matters that have been prepared should be decided as quickly as possible so that the citizens are given the opportunity to choose and be elected in the municipality they might be in the next parliamentary term. In view of this — and for the purposes of the nomination processes — the Ministry has informed the rapporteurs concerned about the likely decision-making process. However, I have come to the conclusion that this matter should be submitted to the Stortinget for treatment. I assume that there will be a roll-out proposal on the matter during February-March.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1179	I thank you for the answer, and I am pleased that the Council of State says that one will spend more time, and that the matter will be submitted to Stortinget. However, I do not agree that the matter has been resolved. In a letter from the State of Oppland dated 18 November 1998, the county council pointed out several unexplained aspects that it has not had the capacity to investigate, such as monitoring, financial consequences for the municipalities, etc. I hope that it will be added by the department that such investigations will be carried out before the matter is brought before Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1186	I can only confirm that the case will be submitted and presented to Stortinget in line with what has been common practice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1191	When a municipality is required to implement municipal plans, regulatory changes, etc., the municipality is required to have open meetings and to submit the proposals for public oversight. Why isn't it done in things like this? It's a question that at least the population of the area in question travels. With regard to the elections, there are people here who intend to make themselves available to the local government in the municipality they live today and feel belonging to. They feel that it is entirely inappropriate for them to make themselves available in the municipality to which they are transferred in the event of a border change as proposed by the ministry today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1198	I think I have to remind you that this is an old case. It's actually been in progress for almost 100 years. But it was only when the Kolbu action group, that is, Columbus' own population, contacted the ministry in 1995 and asked that this border now be cleared up, as it crept and swung and led to people living in the same street living alternately in the East and West Toten, that something was done. I understand that from the material we've been dealing with in the department, that it's a desire of the local people, that is, the people of Columbus, to get this clearing, and that's why the department from 1995 to today has been working to find a solution to this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1206	I will ask the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs the following questions: ‘Many service providers do not care about complying with the Working Environment Act. Of 20 pubs and restaurants recently examined in Oslo, only one did not break the law. Employees are exploited roughly. The Labour Inspectorate is working on bombs and just above the top of the iceberg. Will the Council of State ensure that the resources and capacity of the Labour Inspectorate are increased?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1215	The representative, Mr Husøy, is entitled to have a tight budget framework for the Labour Inspectorate, as is the case with other supervisory offices. In view of the fact that the agency is responsible for overseeing 250000 enterprises, the effort must be given a strict priority and directed towards the most vulnerable industries and businesses. The hotel and restaurant industries received particular attention through a targeted campaign in 1992-93. The campaign was subsequently followed up in a special cooperation with the tax haven to reveal conditions such as black work, tax evasion and various forms of crime in this sector. The Labour Party had no comments on the Government's draft budget for the Labour Inspectorate for 1999. The government is now starting preparations for the state budget for the year 2000. I can therefore not give any signals or promises of increased budgeting for the Labour Inspectorate today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1222	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In the question that I sent in, I am talking about the supervision that concerns the restaurant industry in particular, and not the entire Labour Inspectorate, although it might also think about more money. It's true, as the Council of State says, there's been a lot of campaigns going on, and a lot of good has been done. But the problem is that it's too little. Here's money laundering, there's black employment, and there's black sales. There is a need for cross-death cooperation. What I see as a problem in such cooperation is the obligation of professional secrecy, because one does not receive the necessary information that could make it easier. When the capacity is small, it limits control, and thus it is much easier to run criminally, and pressure is put on the serious part of the industry. I just want to redispatch money – more to the supervision of a vulnerable industry such as the restaurant industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1233	My impression is that the Labour Inspectorate is working well. I have full confidence in the priorities that the Labour Inspectorate is making. I have noticed what the representative said about the need to cooperate across ethical boundaries. I think that's right, especially in this case. I have not been told in the past that the obligation of professional secrecy is a problem, but I will promise to check it out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1240	I thank you for the answer, and I am convinced that the Council of State will confirm what I said about the duty of confidentiality as a problem. I heard in the Ostland station not long ago that there was perhaps one or two jobs at the Labour Inspectorate in Oslo to work on this. Only one or two more posts would have done a lot in terms of increasing the capacity that is today, so there are actually not large resources that are needed, and there are probably also opportunities for redeployment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1245	We're now going to question 25.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1251	This question, addressed to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who will address it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1254	I will allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The country’s asylum seekers have recently been called upon to pay more money for personal consumption. Will the Council of State explain the financial benefits and amounts of asylum seekers, both lonely and families, have requirements today, as well as explain other benefits to which health, dentistry and other welfare services asylum seekers are entitled when they are in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1263	Asylum seekers and refugees in state reception receive financial benefits under a separate regulation, which shall ensure uniform financial benefits for residents in state reception who are not otherwise able to meet their economic needs. The basic amounts shall cover the personal expenses of the residents. Personal expenditure means all expenditure on household, consumables, clothing, dental expenses, doctors, glasses, medicines, other health expenditure and expenditure on, for example: leisure and education The basic amounts for persons in reception who have a self-employed household are as follows: A single adult asylum seeker receives up to NOK 2 500 per year. month, while a married couple or a cohabiter receives up to DKK 4200 per month. Children in the family up to 18 years of age receive up to NOK 1 100 per day. month, single dependants receive an additional amount of up to DKK 600 per month. months. For persons who have a free diet in the reception, the basic amount for an adult is up to NOK 900 per person. month, children receive up to SEK 600 per month. the month and the lump-sum dependants receive an additional amount of up to DKK 300 per month. months. While the application for asylum is under consideration, the applicant for asylum has limited membership in the public interest. The coverage includes, inter alia: entitlement to medical attention. Professional asylum seekers are entitled to benefits related to participation in employment, such as sickness benefits, daily allowances and benefits in the event of occupational injury. The insurance cover for asylum seekers does not include the right to an old-age pension or benefits for disabled, survivors and lone dependants. Equally, no one-off benefit is granted at birth. The Monetary Regulation allows for the payment of exceptional additional benefits if this is necessary for the life and health of a resident. In such cases, it is assumed that offers under the law of popular protection and the free card system have been used in full. Asylum seekers who are in state reception do not have financial benefits under the social services law. The benefits under the Financial Regulation are significantly lower than the average social assistance rates. For example, the unit performance in receipt amounts to up to NOK 2500 per person. months. The average social assistance rate for a single person in 1997 was NOK 3 806 per year. months.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1278	The reason why I am raising a question that could have been answered elsewhere than from the Parliament's pulpit is the recent demand from asylum seekers about what I would like to call more pocket money from Norwegian taxpayers, which is, of course, the ones who are going to pay the increased amount you want to receive. The Minister of Local Affairs now presented a good deal of generous welfare schemes that are provided free of charge to asylum seekers, who say that they are being treated very humanely and generously in Norway. They have free stay, free diet, free Losji, free play, free clothes, for some free education – a variety of well-being benefits that they can claim for free. Then I'd like to ask...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1283	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1286	Then I'd like to ask the Council of State...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1291	Time's up!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1294	Is it the case that they will meet that requirement for growth?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1299	I'm sorry, but we're running out of time!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1302	I admit that my answer was long, it was also detailed. It may be a little difficult to get into it right away, so I think I'll give it to the representative in writing. So what I said in the answer is that asylum seekers and refugees have to make sure they stay for themselves in the sense that the $2,500 they get a month are going to cover food, it's going to cover houses, it's going to cover clothes, it's going to cover medicine. So they don't get all this for free. On the contrary, if it turns out that asylum seekers have their own money when they come to the country, they will not be paid. So the amounts are for those who have nothing. As I said, the benefits received by asylum seekers are much lower than average social assistance benefits in 1997. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1310	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1313	I'm sorry I took a little too long. I would like to finish the question, which I did not get a clear answer to. Is it the case that the Norwegian authorities will now meet the demands of asylum seekers for more money for personal consumption? Is this being considered? That's what really was my question. Could I get an answer to that?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1322	It's not for personal consumption, it's for living. And then let me tell you that we have our own research project, ‘Life year in state reception for asylum seekers and refugees’, which has been going on for a while. We expect them to present their report in April this year. And in the light of the results presented in that report, we will assess whether there is a need to look at the monetary performance of asylum seekers in reception.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1337	This question has been withdrawn. Questions 14-17, from representatives Ane Sofie Tömrås, Øystein Hedstrøm, Per Roar Bredvold and Terje Knudsen respectively to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by Minister of Justice Jon Lilletun.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1345	I would like to ask a question to the Minister of Justice who is working: ‘The police district has been deprived of two job homes to transfer them to other police districts. This is done despite the fact that Halden has clearly shown that they need more policemen both for local tasks and national tasks the police district is responsible for. Does the Council of State consider this to be in line with the budgetary observations of a unanimous committee for the current year?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1354	The Ministry of Justice has a general responsibility for allocating police resources so that all districts in Norway have a similar range of police services. After a review of the police force on a national basis, which was otherwise initiated by the Stortinget, we found that there were significant resource distortions between police districts. The principle is that the population base should be the most burdensome factor for manning and that ‘special conditions’ in the police district should be added. The border with Sweden can be described as such special conditions for the police in Halden. The crew review showed that despite these special tasks of some police districts, it is necessary to redeploy positions on a national basis in order to correct the weaknesses identified. This work has started this year, where 15 official positions have been redeployed with the result that Halden Police District is deprived of two job homes. I also draw attention to the fact that Halden receives earmarked funds related to the border issue.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1367	It is good to hear that the Council of State has taken into account the conditions on which the Stortinget was founded when it initiated a redistribution of police districts, that is, taking into account the challenges of the individual police districts and the specific conditions there. But once you've got it into theory, you also have to put it into practice. I believe that the department has not done so in relation to Halden Police District. I would also like to quote what is stated in the budgetary statement under the chapter on the Police and Lone Civil Service seat: ‘In this context, the Committee will also point out that cities and urban areas, for example: in the Oslo area, in many cases they face the same challenges in the development of crime.’ So now Halden is a city and has been a city for hundreds of years. And Halden is a city that faces the same problems with the evolution of crime in terms of violence and other things. Therefore, Halden needs a strengthening of the homes and not a weakening.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1379	Prior to redistribution, police districts had a coverage of 2.03 officials/women per year. 1000 inhabitants. It can be said that Kongsvinger police districts, which also have large border traffic to and from Sweden, have a coverage of 1.43. By comparison, I can inform you that the police districts of Hordaland and Sunnmøre have a coverage of 0.84 and 0.97 respectively. The last two police districts, when re-distributing the position of civil servants, are left with two job homes. The re-allocation that has now been carried out is part of a better distribution of resources between police districts. I'm sure that Holden could have benefited in a good way from these two homes, but on the basis of a principle of justice, as the Committee wished, the Government believes that there has been a distribution in accordance with the Committee's comment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1386	I would like to stress that there is no disagreement that there is a need for a review of the job homes and their distribution, but I cannot see that the department here has followed up the guidelines drawn up by the Stortinget. Nor do I ignore the fact that other police districts also need further reinforcement like Halden. That is why the Stortinget has also given additional appropriations to create more job homes, and demanded that all police students be offered a job in the police – because we need them. The need for reinforcement in other police districts, too, cannot defend the weakening of Halden police districts, which also need a reinforcement. And comparing Kongswinger and Halden as border police districts is a complete quest. Halden is the main entrance gate to Norway. 80 pst. of cross-border traffic crossing Halden. And when we're about to get the Schengen Agreement in place – although the government hasn't been so enthusiastic about that work, it looks like this – it means a new task for Halden, and then they need more homes, and not fewer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1393	The Schengen Council shall lie in this context, but I shall quote something more from the comitology to which it has been referred: ‘The Committee has noted that a review of the overall resources and the response of the police has been undertaken and asks the Ministry to be properly briefed. The Committee is committed to contributing to a better distribution of resources between police districts.» It is quite clear that there may be a very large number of places to increase resources, but there is thus a ‘more accurate distribution’ among police departments. When the average is at one and Halden has two, what's done in that context is not unimaginable, even though I have a lot of understanding that Halden is disappointed. So a little remark at the end: they're $100 million. kr, which was allowed extra by the conciliation, I suppose the Labour Party was not present, as far as I think.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1409	I have the following questions for the Minister of the Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister of Justice: ‘Hald the alien section of the Police Chamber, which carries out random checks along the national border, including the railway, has exposed many attempts at illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings and the import of narcotic drugs. The border secret issues are resource-intensive with their branches to organised criminal environments in domestic and foreign countries. What will the Ministry contribute to improving the working conditions of the alienation section in the fight against cross-border crime?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1418	It is the police chief who is responsible for how the work is prioritised in a police district. The Advocate General has a general professional responsibility for the prosecution tasks. In September 1997, Halden Police District set up its own border crimping group to strengthen its efforts against cross-border crime. The BIP achieves good results. A district such as Halden must focus on crime related to the border problem on the basis of its location. The same applies to other districts with special challenges. In order to further improve the detection of cross-border crime, close cooperation has been established between the Swedish and Norwegian police and customs services. Close cooperation allows better targeting of efforts than in the past. The Ministry is following developments closely, and special funding for this work is also provided in the 1999 budget. These are funds that are not linked to job homes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1429	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but the answer was not satisfactory in terms of border control. The figures mentioned earlier by the Council of State, where he drew a comparison between Kongswinger and Halden, are of little relevance. As the representative Mr Tömerås said, this is the main entrance port – with E6. We also have E18, we have the railway over Lake Corn, we have 12 different crossing points towards Sweden. This should be of the highest priority. We know that during the 1991 Gulf crisis, when extra controls were put in place, everything from abandoned hails, Finnish caps, complete counterfeiting equipment for false passports, etc. was seized. The police district has previously given two posts. Now there's two more, and then there's one more of the five that were taken into account in Halden's foreign section. Does the Council of State think that this will be sufficient to have a good deterrent effect and to counter cross-border crime and illegal immigration into Norway in this district?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1436	The numbers that the representative Hedstrøm referred to, and that I had referred to, were related to the general crew standards. So I said that there's extra funds specifically for the challenges that lie here. In the 1999 budget frame, the police district’s border crimping group is set at 500 000 kroner and, in addition, Halden Police District is allocated EUR 1450 000 from the Directorate of Foreign Affairs in exceptional means of border control. This together represents a monthly strengthening of the district budget, and through further development of border cooperation and targeted efforts, we see it as quite clear that this service is strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1441	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. With regard to the circumstances of the state councils here, it is quite right that there are new resources, but it is to meet new challenges in Europe and the cooperation Norway will have with other European countries in the justice sector. I'll get into the budget deal a little bit. Now police organisations say that the operating budgets need to be reduced around. In this respect, I want to ask the Council of State – and then I get into this 100 million. kr in the budget agreement – if he believes that this reduction in the resources we are now experiencing is in line with the budgetary agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1450	The government's emphasis is on acting neatly in relation to a settlement. We think we should be able to demonstrate in a thorough manner that we have adhered to the budgetary agreement. It won't be 30 seconds left, it'll be time to go into it, but later it'll be possible to go through the premises that led to the agreement, and the government's handling of it. It's quite clear that the 100 million. This has helped well in the whole country, but there is still a need for more places. It also understands the government that it is, but we have to stick to what the Storting has said, that one should also distribute the individual districts in the most responsible way possible. We've tried to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1458	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: «In the municipality of Alvdal, a boy of 6 years has won a new car. The joy in the family was very great until the front imagery intervened according to the Vergemålsgesetz. The family wants to use the benefit for the whole family’s best, while the head office has ‘taken’ the car. What will the Council of State do to ensure that this and similar matters can be resolved within the family's own ranks?'
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1467	I am only familiar with the matter in question through the press and the media, and it looks as if the Alvdal imagery has acted in line with the rules of the Vergemålsgesetz, which primarily takes care of the interests of the unauthorized. According to the Vergemålsgesetz § 63, cf. Regulation of the Ministry of Justice of 11 November 1988 No. 930, the parent undertaking is obliged to assume the management of the funds of the unauthorised if the amount is equal to or greater than NOK 30000. The Ministry has now proposed to amend the abovementioned regulation and, inter alia, to amend it. raise this limit amount. How much this limit amount should be set, we have not yet made a final decision. In a short time, we will send the matter to the hearing and await the reactions of the hearing bodies on this issue. The Ministry also plans to carry out a full revision of the Vergemålsgesetz itself, which is both old-fashioned and difficult to access. We will also have to assess the issue raised by the representative of Per Roar Bredvold. I can also mention the provision in the first paragraph of Section 89 of the Vergemålsgesetz, which gives an heir permit or gives the right to decide for myself how to manage the gift/heir. This means that the right/obligation of the head office to take over the administration of the funds of the unauthorised person may be set aside by the heirs/donor in accordance with this provision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1480	That this law is old is right. It's from 1927. It says that funds for girls and boys under 18 years of age, regardless of how they have been obtained, should be notified to the head office when the value is above NOK 30 000. The fact that the opposite imagery in Alvdal has done its job is correct, but it is perhaps time that we looked at that law, and the Council of State promised it would be done. For example, it is very necessary to raise the limit from NOK 30000 when this amount was last adjusted on November 11, 1988. Of course, what's best for the family can be discussed, but you should think that most parents know what's best for the individual family member and the family as a whole. And who is it now that dares to buy lots in the name of their children? It is also relatively common for parents to put child protection into an account, so that the child can use it later, for example. education, driving licences, for mopeds, tractors and such things, trips, sports equipment, etc. You can ask what is best for the child when the child must be 18 before deciding on these means. Legally, it is also possible to discuss who is going to win, whether it is the one who buys the lot, or the one who gets the lot.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1493	I can share many of the assessments expressed here by the representative Bredvold, and I'm also happy that he is happy that we have a work to review. There was only one thing I needed to clarify in relation to the question of the representative of Bredvold, and that's that the opposite figure manages this gain too well. It is not that he seizes them and takes them over. It could in itself be listened to like this on the question. I don't think the representative meant it, but I needed to clarify exactly that. Otherwise, we will meet this principle again after we have passed the law and had it out on our ears.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1505	This question will be raised by the representative of Mr Jørn L. Stag.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1508	On behalf of my colleague Terje Knudsen, I would like to ask the following questions to Minister of Justice Lilletun: ‘Drug crimes in Bergen have increased by about 40 pst. in 1998. As a result, the Bergen Police Chamber has had to continue only one of the two local area police pilot projects in order to find funding for the fight against drugs. Will the Council of State provide enough funds to the Bergen Police Chamber so that both pilot projects can be continued without going beyond the fight against drugs and violence?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1517	The Ministry of Justice established in 1994 the Local Area Police Facility project as a pilot project to develop a form of close police. The scheme was also tested in Oslo, Kristiansand, Stavanger, Bergen and Trondheim. The project started with local subprojects in most places in 1995. In order for the project to start, new posts were allocated to the police districts. Initially, earmarked resources were allocated. In Bergen, the project only started in 1996 for a number of reasons. Funds for the project were put into the budget framework. In 1997, there was no earmarked funding for the project. As a project, it was to be concluded for all police districts at the end of 1997. The aim of the project was to develop police working methods in order to increase the safety of people in the area concerned, improve service to the population and reduce crime there. The project should be based on increasing the police’s visible presence in the context of a uniform outreach service in the area, in order to exploit local knowledge to improve police services, provide support for the investigation of crime and prevent crime. In each area, a police officer was given responsibility for the police service there and was to monitor the area. However, I would like to stress that it is the police chief's responsibility to organise the police in the best possible way according to the guidelines drawn up, in order to combat crime and create security for the public. However, there is nothing to prevent the police district itself from continuing with the system of local police or other forms of close police. This has also been announced to the police district in the so-called governance dialogue. What resources the police district needs and what can be allocated are included in the governance dialogue between the police district and the ministry. It also identifies the priorities to be given. Bergen Police District has been allocated 219 million. 1999 kr. It also includes earmarked funds, with 3.8 million. in addition to the ordinary fight against crime through, inter alia, the provision of additional funds to combat violence in the centre of Bergen. the law enforcement service. When representative Terje Knudsen points out that drug crimes in Bergen have increased by 40 p.m. In 1998, it is said that drug crime is one of the types of crime in which the number of cases is strongly influenced by police intervention and is not as dependent on public reports as it is on most other crimes. An increase of 40 pst. This shows, therefore, that the police in Bergen have made a good effort in 1998 to combat drug crimes. If the police officer in Bergen finds the experience of near-police so far, there is nothing in my view to prevent the scheme from being maintained – if desired also to be extended to several areas within the allocated funds. This can also be supported by the police officer in St.prp. No 1 for 1998-99, page 9, where the development of a visible and accessible police force with good knowledge of local conditions has been highlighted. However, no additional funds will be allocated to the Bergen police district now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1534	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think the last sentence was very disappointing, because it was categorically stated that the Bergen Police Chamber does not receive any more funds. I think that's very regrettable when Bergen and other big cities have an increase in drug crime. I just want to draw the attention of the Council of States to the fact that there has been a settlement between the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Government Parties, and at least there is an unequivocal attitude among the members of these parties to which I referred, which emphasizes that the problems for the cities were pointed out and would give priority to the situation that has arisen there. And then my question to the Council of State, as he himself was concerned with this by drawing away the earmarked funds, is that they do not exist any more: is the situation so precarious in the cities now that the Council of State will reconsider its view and provide the necessary resources to strengthen the neighbourhood police force?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1541	I would like to clarify once again that the funds given to the project have been put into the frames and exist in the frames. They are not withdrawn from the budget this year, but they are now within the framework. Then the representative refers to the settlement that has been made. And it's quite clear that it's a pleasure with the national reinforcement that the police have received with the 100 million extras. It's also obvious that the heaviest cities have got the biggest hit. Everyone could certainly have used more – it could certainly have done so too – but based on the funds that have been channelled through the state budget, the distribution has been made. And it's based on what I had to be as cash in my last sentence as I was, saying that there won't be any extra funds now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1551	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘An evaluation by the Institute of Labour Research of the project ‘Work with assistance’ shows that about half of the people involved in the measures get into permanent work, some in full employment and some in combination work and social security. Employers are positive to the scheme. The alternatives to these are disability benefits, a sheltered workplace or an institution space. All options are more expensive than ‘Work with assistance’. Does the Council have any escalation plan in addition to the announced increase that has now been adopted?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1560	The labour market measure Work with assistance started as a pilot project in the period 1992-95, and the Labour Research Institute was committed to evaluating this project. In the light of the good experience gained by the experiment, work assisted was introduced in 1996 as an ordinary labour market measure. Assistance is aimed at people with severe occupational disabilities who need special follow-up and assistance. The assisted work places are integrated into the regular working life. The aim is for participants to be able to maintain their work even after the end of the action period of up to three years. Many of the participants are dissatisfied when they come to the action. However, the aim is that participation in the measure should be able to contribute over time to reducing social security benefits by gradually being paid by the employer or by a combination of pay and social security. As the questioner is probably familiar with, there are at any time more than 50000 registered job-impaired jobseekers in the labour market seat. These have different problems and different functions. We therefore need a wide range of measures, and Work with assistance is one of several offers for the weakest working people with disabilities. Other offers to this group may be Work-preparing training or offer of ASVO space. I fully share the questioner's view of Work with assistance as a decent offer to the weakest working people. I have therefore continued to expand the capacity of the measure. In 1997, this measure averaged about 850 sites for action. The 1998 budget provided space for almost 900 posts, while in its implementation there were actually around 1045 intervention sites. The number of action places may be slightly higher than budgeted because the Directorate of Labour has access to a certain re-disposal between measures. In the Government's 1999 budget proposal, we proposed further development of the Work measure, with the assistance of approximately 1 300 places on average per year. In 1999 as well, the final number of posts may be slightly higher than budgeted. Decisions on the further development of assisted labour will be taken in relation to the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1581	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Of course, it is positive that the number of people involved in the measure Work with assistance is increasing, but it is so small. When we know that the need for such action places is so huge, it becomes very puzzled by the Council of State when you end up with an increase of a few hundred places on a national basis. I think that's just irritating people and creating expectations about activity, which in turn makes them disappointed when they can't come along with these measures. I had at least expected the Council of State to have a proper formation on this measure and an escalation plan that showed that this was a measure that we know is working and that it is worth investing in. Then I would like to ask: is it because we have so few action places in 1999 that the Council of State does not have any major plans?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1588	In the area of measures for disabled persons, it is actually the same number and level as last year. It is important for the working group to find out whether there may also be other measures available, which may be equally appropriate — or at least for a period of clarification, to show the ability of the labour market to work. I noticed that when the Stortinge dealt with the budget for 1999, it asked the Ministry to look precisely at the relationship between the various measures for the disabled, whether we could have greater flexibility between the measures to enable these people to get into work and demonstrate their ability to work. It is possible that solutions can be found within the overall action package and that we are not just focusing on this one measure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1595	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. My point is not the 55 000 that come under measures for the disabled. However, this measure, Work with assistance, goes off the pot that concerns common labour market measures. Work on assistance may, for example: are given to groups such as mentally retarded, slightly mentally retarded, psychiatric patients, heavy drug users, or refugees with low schooling or poor Norwegian. There are incredibly large groups that can come under this scheme and that, after the three years, may get into permanent work, which in turn will ease the pressure for new groups to change to disability. Then I have to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State agree that if we do not get to give these groups an offer quickly, will we still have a strong increase in the number of disabled people?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1604	I agree that the measure Work with assistance is a good measure, which I also said in my first response. For this group of people that we are talking about here, it may also be important to see this and other measures in a context, just to avoid what the representative points to, namely, more of the disadvantages – at least it is important to create flexibility between being able to do work and getting social security. With regard to the escalation plan, which the representative had a characteristic of here, it must be understood that I cannot now say what I want to do in the next fiscal year – other than to ask the representative to notice that I say that Work with assistance is a good measure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1614	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘In cooperation with Nord Pool ASA, the Nordic electricity exchange, the Competition Authority has had information on electricity prices for consumers on NRK Text-TV. This offer ceased at the turn of the year, and many who have used this offer react very negatively to its cessation. Will the Council of State take the initiative to bring back this popular offer, so that consumers can be informed of the price level between the different actors in the market?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1623	As the representative of Vaksdal points out, the best offers from the Competition Authority’s price surveys on electricity have been published on NRK’s Text TV pages. However, it is not right now to say that this is based on cooperation between the Competition Authority and Nord Pool, since it is Nord Pool that has provided this information on Text-TV on its own initiative. It is therefore Nord Pool who has now chosen not to continue the information service on NRK’s Text TV. However, this is without prejudice to the Competition Authority’s price surveys on electricity, which are continued as before. Over a few years, the supervision has established a price ranking of the supply from its electricity suppliers. The background to the establishment of this scheme was the desire to create price-conscious and active consumers in the context of the deregulation of power turnover. As most people now know, it is now possible to change power suppliers on a weekly basis without cost. In order to ensure effective competition between e-works also in the case of deliveries to smaller end-users, such as: household customers, there is a prerequisite for sufficient and comparable price information to enable consumers to make active choices with regard to electricity suppliers. In this context, it is gratifying to observe that more and more people are actually using the option of switching suppliers. By the end of October 1998, as many as 140 000 power customers had switched suppliers. This indicates that competition for deliveries to households is increasing. In the context of the introduction of a notification obligation mechanism for electricity prices from January 1998 onwards, the Competition Authority further developed its price surveys to update the ranking of electricity suppliers by supervisory authorities on a weekly basis. This information is published on the supervisory website’s own website, through regular press releases, as well as by e-mail and regular mail to interested parties. The results of supervisory price surveys are frequently referred to and reported in both national and television newspapers. Competition supervision has good experience with today's forms of communication. In my opinion, therefore, the pricing of supervision is easily accessible to most people. Of course, it is also an objective to have as much as possible access to the information produced by the supervisory price surveys. In this context, it can also be mentioned that the Competition Authority has just issued an information brochure describing the functioning of the household market and how to exchange the supplier. In conclusion, I would like to sum up by saying that the Competition Authority's price surveys are a good tool to stay informed about price developments in the power market. Furthermore, I believe that today's publication via the Internet, in combination with the wide range of supervision price surveys in general, in the media, adequately meets the need for information to consumers. This is also reflected in the joyous development of the power market, where an increasing number of consumers switch power suppliers while competition between power suppliers appears to increase considerably.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1636	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I think was somewhat disappointing. The Competition Authority has informed me on the phone that they have gone away from this project because it cost NOK 60 000 a year – there is a small amount of money disappearing. I have also learned that this offer has been made on the Internet. The problem is that not all people in this country have access to the Internet. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State the following additional questions: does she not see that the offer that has now been removed from NRK's Text TV cannot be replaced by the Internet, as this is not an offer for everyone? The elderly in particular are excluded as they do not have the necessary access to what is available to more and more people in the information society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1645	The scope of publication is also the subject of the use of resources. Publishing via own websites on the Internet is a cost-effective and appropriate way to inform about price surveys. Further publications through the Text-TV pages of the NRK and, where appropriate, the Text-TV pages of other TV channels will bind up resources for which supervision could then be used, for example. price surveys and other price information. I am therefore confident that the Competition Authority will assess this on an ongoing basis – and now they are assessing it in such a way that no money will be spent on Text-TV. Otherwise, the Internet is a service that increases to an extent at a very rapid pace.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1653	This question, from the representative of Mr. Kenneth Svendsen to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of Mr. Thore Aksel Nistad.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1656	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport, on behalf of the representative of Kenneth Svendsen, the following questions: ‘After 14 years of tolling station at E6 at Kobbelv in the municipality of Sørfold, the road is now soon disbursed. Sørfoldveg A/S has now proposed to the road office in Nordland that the toll charge should be continued. The reason for this is that they want fire protection and safety equipment to be installed in all tunnels in the municipality of Sørfold, including those tunnels which were not originally covered by previous toll collection. Does the Council of State believe that it is right that the local population should also bear the costs?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1665	The Ministry of Transport is aware that the Swedish Road Administration has received an enquiry from Sørfoldvegen A/S on the matter. The case is dealt with in the municipalities concerned and in the county municipality of Nordland. The installation of fire protection and safety equipment in the tunnels in Sørfold municipality is not within the scope of partial toll financing of E6 around Leirfjorden in Nordland, cf. St. pp. No 66 for 1981-82 and Innst. S. No 168 for 1981-82. The full or partial financing of fire protection and safety equipment in these toll tunnels is therefore an extension of the existing tolling system. A new toll application, if any, must be approved by Stortinget following a prior local process in the municipalities concerned and in the county. I cannot initially see that there is in principle something in the way that tolls are used for upgrading tunnels if there is local support for it, and the project is otherwise professionally sound. The project must in all cases be assessed in relation to the applicable toll financing guidelines. The Ministry of Transport will come back to the matter after it has been treated locally.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1676	I thank you for your answer. I am very pleased that the matter has to be dealt with. In fact, this is a matter of installing fire protection and safety equipment in 17 tunnels, and it is also a mobile telephone network, which is to be financed by tolls. It is a dangerous tendency for drivers to be involved in and pay taxes first, and they will have to pay tolls – with those tolls they will soon have to finance everything. Is it true that those who pay tolls will be involved in financing everything else that has nothing to do with the exact amount of toll financing?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1685	There is a lot you could basically wish for when it comes to transportation, but at the end of the day you depend on the money that is available. Here's the thing that if a local person feels that the questions that have been raised, namely better securing the tunnels, are a topic on which they are concerned, they have the basis to promote the matter. It is also the case that the ministry is completely dependent on this local treatment in order to have a case to deal with. But as a practical man who is concerned that people should contribute when they want it, I can't see anything in principle in the way of it, if it's professionally sound, and if there's a local desire to bet in the way that's in the question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1695	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for the Church, Education and Research: ‘Societal knowledge 9’, the textbook gives a very negative impression of the fishing industry and also has several direct errors. As long as we have a public authorisation system, the content remains as publicly accepted facts. What will the Council of State do in this specific matter and in general to ensure that books in which the content is stamped as publicly approved have professional objectives?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1704	Fishing is our second largest export industry and an industry with good prospects. I just have to say I'm sorry that this important perspective does not appear in a textbook in the social field. The examination and recognition of textbooks in the basic school and in further training shall be carried out in accordance with the regulations of 13 January 1984. It's the National Educational Center that administers the regulation. All manuscripts of textbooks for which approval is sought are subject to professional examination, an examination relating to gender equality and linguistic examination. The linguistic review will be carried out by the Norwegian Language Council. When it comes to ensuring that the content of the textbooks remains professional, i.e. is professionally correct, is the main responsibility of the author and the publisher. The peer review shall assess the textbook in relation to: the painting and the main elements of the curriculum of the subject of didactic soundness in which the general part, the principles and guidelines and the curriculum of the subject are included; For the purposes of this review, it shall be assessed whether the substance selection and manufacturing process are capable of achieving the objectives of L-97. In this context, the peer review will also assess whether the teaching material and the manufacture are successful in achieving professional objectives. Publishers and National Educational Centres cooperate in ensuring that professional content is correct. In social sciences, where this book is used, relationships in many areas change very quickly, and it is important that textbooks are professionally up-to-date. It is, of course, very unfortunate that the fishing industry has received a misrepresentation in an approved and published textbook. However, I would like to note that the volume of textbook manuscripts to be examined has been very great in connection with the fundamental reform and that the work has partly been done under time pressure. The National Educational Centre will ask the publisher to correct what is not correct in the next edition of the textbook, so that all information on the fishing industry is correct. The National Educational Centre will also ask the publisher to consider measures in view of the schools that have already purchased the textbook, e.g. by sending corrected pages which can be inserted to the publisher. Otherwise it can be stated that the approval system will be continued in the regulation of the new training law, which will enter into force on 1 August 1999. The Ministry of Education and the National Educational Centre is committed to ensuring the quality of textbooks. In this context, a pilot project is now under way in cooperation between the Norwegian Association of Publishers, the Norwegian Trade Union of Writers and Translators, the High School in Westfold and the National Educational Centre on the assessment and selection of textbooks and other teaching materials. This is a project aimed at increasing the knowledge of educational quality. At the same time, it is possible to test other models of approval, where one also looks more closely at the division of responsibilities when it comes to content. In this context, I refer to the budget decision of the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research during the deliberations of the Budget. S. No 12 for 1998-99, one of the decisions being : ‘The Government asks the Government to assess quality assurance of Norwegian textbook production with a view to a significant simplification, where appropriate the winding-up of the current approval system for textbooks.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1736	I thank you for the answer, which I thought to some extent was satisfactory. Direct errors are bad, but the most serious thing here is perhaps the total production of the industry, under the heading ‘Working Life — Opportunities and Challenges’. There is quite an image from the fishing industry in this chapter - an image with the text "Down and Off float Fishing Weather". On the same page is the text: "Where is the hammer Edvard, you need it now when the door is to be nailed again?" It's the evening row that seems to have sunk over the fishing industry in this textbook, which makes me most worried. I thought it was bad that Gyldendal did not do a good enough job, but I hope the Council of State agrees with me when I say that it is even worse to have an authorisation system that cannot capture such things.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1750	I agree entirely with the representative Løvik that the worst is the total production of the industry as an industry in decline, under pessimism. It probably gives us a challenge in many more fields than the one that applies to textbooks, because there's some kind of image that's been attached to a lot of people, and it also turns out in recruitment to, for example, fishing pheasant. Here we have a common job to do. So here I share the concern and vision of the representative Løvik. I also agree that it is search when a person has an authorisation scheme that has not captured this. I am also pleased that the representative Løvik understands that we are doing quite a lot of work here, and that we are very concerned that this should be better. I still believe that the labour pressure that has been associated with the implementation of the reforms is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1757	It should be added that the same publisher in other works has mentioned parts of the industry. One goes, among other things: argues that it is a modern industry and says: ‘Modern fishing boats are full of electronic means that make it easy to find the fishing hours.’ And then there's what I want to deal with: ‘It is no longer possible to be fish, whether it was before.’ I guess we should be able to connect to that. But it's also not okay for us to try and recruit people for an industry that we, along the coast, see as a future industry. As the Council of State correctly said, it is the second largest export industry, an industry that has enormous growth potential through its supply of abundant and pure food, and the industry has great potential for development. That is the background for the big discussion that has now taken place in fishing cranes about this textbook. I thought the Council of State's response was quite positive, and I hope that he will follow this up on a general basis too.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1777	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for the Church, Education and Research: ‘The Norwegian Adult Educational Research Institute in Trondheim, in its evaluation report, points to the loss of adult elephants in the secondary school in Reform 94. [[NVI]] What would the State Council like to do to fix this?'
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1786	In connection with St.meld. No 42 for 1997-98 on the reform of competences and the Internal Market. S. No 78 for 1998-99 discussed Stortinget recently the situation of the adults in the state continuing training course. There was a clear need for action to strengthen the prospects for further training for adults, including those with a high risk of becoming illiterate. by establishing a system that gives grown-ups the right to demonstrate their real competence, without having to walk the road to traditional testing schemes. It is not entirely covering what the representative Sigvald Uppøen Hansen says about the situation of the adults in Reform 94. The final report of the Norwegian Adult Educational Research Institute, presented at a press seminar last week together with the other final reports of the evaluation, has been entitled ‘On the right track, without right’. The title indicates, as the researchers themselves put it, that ‘the situation of adults has improved since the introduction of the reform’. In other words, it is a more nuanced image that appears today when it comes to the consequences of Reform 94 for the adults in the community further training than at the start of the reform. The situation of the adults in the continuing community training course requires a comprehensive and thorough analysis, with a number of different factors to assess from a holistic perspective. This will be done in the message of further training that will be submitted to the Size section of our program. This will also be further worked on in the follow-up to the reform of competences. I therefore do not find it right at this stage to go into the work that is currently going on in the department, which will be presented in the above message. But I can assure the representative Uppøen Hansen that it is a declared goal for the Government to set aside the opportunity so that all the adults can get the best possible customization of further training. In the evaluation of Reform 94, we see that this is a major challenge for us and for the county councils.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1797	I thank the Council of State for your answer. No one will be more happy than I am if this is what the Council of State is telling us, that the report shows that the grown-ups have not really come out as bad as the newspaper article might show. The situation before Reform 94 was such that the introductory instructions for further training gave older applicants additional points, i.e. that older applicants competed with young people. So, the reform was in place. So we got Reform 94, with a range rule of 375 pst, where some of the percentages would go to adult seekers. Now we had a big debate in connection with the reform of competences on the place of adults in the further training, and I have of course respect for the fact that the Council of State will await the situation...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1808	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1811	Here's to try to be nuanced and balanced, because it's right as I said, that one didn't come out as bad as that article could be, and that there's been an improvement, overall. For the 16-19-year-olds, there has been a great improvement, so it is quite obvious that very many have not come out well enough. That's why it's quite clear that there's a real job to do here – it's both a need for a different organization for adults, a need for more flexibility for adults, and a need for more facilities for adults. And I'm not satisfied with the way that a lot of county councils have followed the rules of scope. Based on the debate we had, where there were several suggestions on the table, but where it was not quite clear which model to choose, I am prepared to take care of the intention of Stortinget: that the most possible adults get a real offer, an offer that suits them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1816	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased to hear how he now interprets what was to the extent that there was no plural decision in the context of the reform of competence – there were some proposals that did not receive a plurality. The Labour Party proposed to grant a legal right to further training, including for adults who did not already have further training. If I interpret the Council of State very kindly now, it may indicate that the Council of State is in the direction of the proposal that the Party of Workers is making in the context of the treatment of the reform of competences. Although I say that I respect the fact that the Council of State will wait to signal whether he will go in for this until he comes with the evaluation of Reform 94, I still want to ask if my interpretation of the Council of State is in the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1823	I am grateful that the representative Oppebøen Hansen takes everything in the best possible sense, but will then show what I really said. It was that I would come back to the Storting, as part of the evaluation of Reform 94, with a proposal to provide the best possible opportunities for further training. We are in the middle of the work process now, and I have warned that during March the big message will be sent. Then we'll get an answer. Then it says to see if the representative Upbeøen Hansen will be pleased. In any case, I hope that most people who need this training will be happy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1831	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Church, Education and Research: ‘The biggest political objective is for the elephants in the basalt to be able to travel on a clay ball at least once during the base day. How will the Council of State ensure that this is done as the Storting has foreseen?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1840	I have the same desire as the representative Uppebøen Hansen. It is a pity that all the elephants in the basalt are taking part in clay schooling during the schooling period, or that the students are otherwise exposed to being outdoors. The syllabus for the 10 year base ball adds a number of activities that can be added to the clay ball. In the middle stage, clay balls are referred to as an action aimed at giving the students sheltered in nature. The formulation in L-97 does not preclude adding clay schooling to the youth stage. The issue of parental pay in the camp was addressed by Stortinget in connection with the new Training Act. I refer to Ot.prp. No 46 for 1997-98 and Innst. O. No 70 for 1997-98. In the setting it is called from the majority of the committee: ‘The majority emphasise that students are not required to pay for camp school excursions or education, but that one can charge for school trips and other truly voluntary offers. In this context, the majority will stress the importance of the absence of economic pressure on pupils and their parents and that the schools take this into account in the educational system.’ I have thus assumed that the schools can charge for travel, diet and lodging for a truly voluntary clay spherical offer. There are also incentives to participate in clay school training free of charge. Suffix is given per. class of accommodation up to one week during the course of the day of basic education, and covers the salary of teachers at the camp. The training laws provide the opportunity to provide regulations on the competence of those who teach at the camp, and the law, syllabuses and lay-offs should bring together a good framework to enable students to obtain such an offer. The training law is now out of the question, and I would like to encourage you to have the right to express yourself if you have a point of view as to how the statements of the Stortinge may be better preserved than what is provided for in the regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1865	I thank the Council of State for your answer. For many years, the clay-sculpture industry was going through a lack of guidelines, all the way to Stortinget, the department asked to create a regulation that would regulate the clay-sculpture business. Then we got a prescription for it, in 1993. It then entered into force, and, as I understand it, it has worked quite satisfactorily. Now I am familiar with the fact that Norsk Leirskoleforening in a meeting with the ministry a few days ago was informed that the regulations governing the clay ball arrangement should now be removed. My question to the Council of State is whether it is right, and whether it is such that any regulation in the form of a law through the Training Act could take care of what is being done today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1874	As I said, new regulations are now out on the phone, and there are the regulations that the representative named Oppebøen Hansen, from 1993, is not in the same way as they were then. What I said in my first post was that to the extent that one disagrees with the new statements, those who would be interested in it have the full opportunity, of course, to present their views before final decisions are taken. One reason for concern is a local desire to organize the camp in a way that is not consistent with classical clay school teaching. In that field of tension, one has tried to give a reasonable protection to the camp balls via the offer of a teacher's salary, but at the same time one has an opening so that the municipalities themselves can find the best way to organize it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1883	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which did not specifically address my question, as I understand it. My question is whether a training law will ensure the camp balls in the same way that one does with today's regulations. Now it is also such that the state support for clay ball training does not cover the actual costs, because it has not been regulated in recent years. And that means that there will be problems with the host municipalities, who will no longer subsidize, can say, camp school training for the children of other municipalities – I have a certain understanding of that. Is it the case that with the change that is now taking place in the camp school training, the host municipalities should also be free of future responsibilities for employers?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1890	After the Ministry's view and also after Stortingen's management, one suggested that the new law should ensure the camp balls and the operations they operate, while providing flexibility for the individual municipalities. It is not suggested to change the relationship when it relates to employer responsibility, which we have come to understand that the clay school unit was very busy not to change. The fact that the back-up arrangement is not priced every year is enough right, as the representative Uppøen Hansen says. In some areas, this government improves the practice of previous governments when it comes to such acquisitions, among other things. in prison. In this respect, we carried on the tradition of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1900	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister of Church Education and Research: ‘The Narvik High School provides education for Russian students. They have the capacity to receive 120 foreign students, but ‘only’ 90, despite the fact that the State loan fund for education has the means to do so. How can this be done, and what can be done to allow the Højskulen in Narvik to receive additional 30 students to the autumn?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1909	The Ministry of the Church, Education and Research allocates each year places in the so-called quota system for students from developing countries and Eastern Europe following applications from all universities and universities in Norway. The students receive support from the Staten Loan Fund for Education on a line with Norwegian students. When the students return to their home country after completing their education, the loan will be converted into a scholarship. The number of places allocated by the Ministry is determined by the government budget for each year. The study year 1998-99 included a total of 900 students. 300 of the places went to students from Eastern Europe. In the 1999 state budget, the Stortinget has given additional 100 places to students from Eastern Europe and 100 places to students from developing countries. The institutions have a deadline of 15 February to apply for places and the Ministry has as its objective the handling of applications before Easter. There are about 40 right educational institutions that can search for quota space. The number of applications in the last few years has been a good deal larger than the number of places available for consultation. This is particularly true for students from Eastern Europe. The ministry has therefore been required to reduce the number of places for most institutions. Many of the institutions that currently have only a few places want to pick up more students from Eastern Europe. Not least this applies to the University of Tromsø and the other high-spherical spheres of North Norway, etc. as part of the cooperation in the Barents region. In my opinion, it is important that most of the institutions may have foreign students to promote the internationalisation of universities and higher education institutions. Unlike Norwegian students, who can bring with them support to the rest of the world, students from developing countries and Eastern Europe are often dependent on getting support from Norway for life support. As a result, the system of allowances is usually the only one opened by the institutions to pick up students from these parts of the world. In the 1998–99 study year, the Högskulen in Narvik received 90 places, i.e. Nearly one third of the available places for students from Eastern Europe. The ministry thinks it's not fair to the other universities and colleges to assign even more seats to the Hågskulen in Narvik. The Ministry has warned the High School in Narvik that they cannot count on keeping so many places in the future. In his question, Mr Tveiten mentions that it says that money on Lånekassa's budget for the quota system. This is not correct. All 900 places were distributed between universities and universities in the spring of 1998. For the 1999–2000 study year, there is a new commitment to the state budget for the current year. The 1,100 places funded by this promise will be allocated by the host before Easter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1928	I would like to first thank the Council of State for a clarification reply. I'm glad that all of the 900 study places are in use. The Russian engineering students involved are an important part of the study environment at the Högskulen in Narvik. What makes them get a little bad out on the Hochskulen is that the school offers a one-year course in which students can learn Norwegian and get knowledge of Norwegian social life. And when the school has 90 places to study, after three years there will be a hole in the supply, which means that the school is in danger of losing the learning skills that are useful in this offer. It is also important to look at Eastern Europe as a very interesting market for different industries in Norway, and that these students can eventually become invaluable contacts for the same industry. My question is therefore: What can the Council of State do to ensure the continuity of such an offer that also contains an advance rate?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1939	I'm grateful that the Tveiten representative sees the context in the way that one of these assigns, based on the 400 places that you have at your disposal. I also want to say that the Hågskulen in Narvik is one of the institutions that have organized this best, with very good arrangements that these students from East have obviously benefited from. That one has a problem with this middle year, I see. I'm set to be flexible when it comes to organisation. If we can find a way, I'm sure we can have a discussion with the High Sphere in Narvik about this. Promiseing multiple places would be wrong with all the other institutions. But getting a flexibility in the way of organizing it is open to me to discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1948	I'm particularly pleased with the answer that the Council of State came up with now, because what's important is to come up with arrangements that allow one to have continuity in such an offer. It's also of great value to the High Sphere in Narvik. I think it is important when allocating these places to see if there are schools that are so vulnerable that they are more dependent than others on being able to provide such a study. This is useful for the provision of Norwegian students, and it is useful for the provision of foreign students. I therefore feel confident that the matter is in the best hands.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1955	Question 25 has already been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1961	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Why did the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health review the State Health Authority and grant State aid to additional organisations such as Norsk Pro Vita, For Life and Human Rights, and also to Norway’s Christian Student and School Youth Act, which the Health Authority considers to be based on methods that are ‘directly unsuitable to raise awareness of young people in their own choice of action’?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1968	Prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion has been a priority area for all governments in the 1990s. We have had two action plans in this area, the third is now under preparation. The objectives of the plans are clear: the incidence of unwanted pregnancy and abortion should be reduced, especially in the youngest age groups. The issue in question is an abortion prevention grant scheme, the decision-making authority of the Ministry of Social and Health. In line with the call for funds, it is the Health Authority that gives notice of cancellation, and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health that decides on the applications. It is in this that the Ministry must make an independent and comprehensive assessment of the applications, based on the submission. Deviations from a setting result in no over-test. The grant scheme is in addition to the measures under the Action Plan for the prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion 1995-98, followed by the Health Inspectorate. The scheme was established in 1998 by capping the allocation. 717 item 70 was expanded by 2 million. kr. The funds shall go to organisations and others that initiate and implement various types of abortion prevention measures. The Ministry’s 1998 allocation differs from that of the Health Authority in some respects: the Ministry chose to reject one of the applications recommended by the Health Authority to grant grants. This was a qualitative study, which, according to the Ministry's assessment, fell outside the scope of the grant scheme. Based on the suspension of the Health Authority, some of the funds would have been unused. The Ministry therefore chose to allocate funds to three additional projects: a teaching system directed by Norway's Christian Student and School Youth Act, a resource bulb for teaching under the direction of For Livsrett and Mensverd, a TV document on unwanted pregnancy directed by Nordisk Film & TV AS Following a complaint, a smaller amount was also allocated to a local programme series in Radio Pro Vita Sandefjord. These are projects which meet the requirements for projects eligible for grants from the scheme. It is important to stress that the grant goes to individual projects rather than to the operation of organisations. The Ministry has stressed that the projects receiving funding from the grant scheme will reach as many as possible in the youth and young adults target group. This is a large and far from homogeneous group. It is therefore necessary to use different strategies and instruments to reach the full range of young people and young adults. In addition to the above-mentioned organisations, the funds went among other things. for projects under the direction of municipalities, the sexual education of the Medisinians, the Women's Front and RadiOrakel.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e1993	: I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I don't think there was any answer to what I asked for. Of course, I am aware that the Council of State is fully entitled to review the Health Authority, but the question is whether it is wise. The question is whether it is wise to support projects under these organisations that we know where the fight for abortion stands, which we know is against abortion, which is extreme, and which is extreme. One of them, Pro Vita, even has Børre Knudsen as an honorary member. Ludvig Nessa is also a member. These are very sensitive things, and these are also very extreme organisations in a very difficult abortion debate. These are organisations that disagree with the abortion law we have today. And I'm tempted to ask the Council of State whether to support this type of project under these organizations is to try to counter the abortion law that there is a broad majority behind this collapse, and if not the Council of State in this way is also helping to add more stone to the burden on the girls who have already had it very difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2000	: As regards the question of the review of the Health Authority, I think it is worth recalling that it is not long since the representative Brustad and her party promoted a Document No. 8-proposals requiring the Stortinget to review assessments made by a working group under the Health Authority. The case concerned guidelines for aborted foetuses, so with the review of the Health Authority, the representative Brustad is prepared as appropriate. So to the supplementary question, is that wise? Yes, I want to ask the question back: is it wise to exclude groups and organisations – who have a different view of today's abortion law than the majority in this room – from participating in the prevention of abortions if they have good projects? Why should their attitude to the abortion law mean that they should be cut off from taking preventive action? I do not think that is wise policy, and therefore I am referring to the specific projects they are applying for, although I would disagree on many points with the organisations and disagree with other measures they had to promote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2007	I would like to repeat what I said instead, that the Council of State is of course in its full right to review and take the decision in relation to that kind of case, but I still question whether that is wise. I do not think it is right to support the type of project and the type of organisation, especially when the Health Authority, which is the professional authority in this area, says clearly that several of these projects are directly unsuitable to raise awareness of young people in relation to the question we are talking about here. They say, among other things: on the project entitled ‘Life and Human Rights’ applied for: ‘Health surveillance, however, takes a sharp distance from the context in which prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion is presented.’ I believe that it is of course permissible to support the projects you wish. I think it's wrong, and I strongly disagree that someone is supporting that kind of organization. I believe that it is alarming that it is done this way. I feel – and must be allowed to say it – that the Christian People's Party in this matter allows its own moral and religious conviction to govern more than the concern of the girls we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2017	I will clearly refute claims that there is no real commitment to preventing unwanted pregnancy and abortion behind the work of the Christian People's Party and behind my work in this area. The question is based on the unreasonable assumption that by granting grants to an action for which an organisation is seeking support, the State becomes co-responsible for all the other activities of that organisation at the same time. This would mean that by supporting the work of the Women's Front and RadiOrakel on abortion prevention, I would have to deal with and benefit from all the other women's front and RadiOracel are involved. The question seems to me to fall on its own unfairness. This is an assessment of individual projects, and we have to be able to do so in the name of the matter, wherever they come from, without being held responsible for what the organisations receiving grants otherwise do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2028	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Although sexual intercourse with children under 16 years of age is punishable, an abortion of 173 children was committed in 1997. The organisations which the Council of State has granted State aid to the councils of experts equate abortion with child-reduction. What are the consequences that the Council of State may have for children who carry the psychological burden of an abortion, in addition to being charged with child abuse, and how does the Council of State think that the film ‘Eclipse of Reason’ will have an effect on a child who has had an abortion itself?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2037	Norsk Pro Vita has not received State aid to carry out an anti-abortion campaign using the film ‘Eclipse of Reason’. Nor has the organisation requested funds for such a campaign. However, in 1998, Pro Vita received a grant of NOK 27 000 for a local project directed by Radio Pro Vita in Sandefjord. The grant was granted from the grant scheme for abortion prevention measures established in 1998. Although the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has provided grants for an individual project under the direction of Norsk Pro Vita, it does not, of course, mean that one thus goes well for this organisation or its entire operations. I only know the film “Eclipse of Reason” from TV2’s newscast on 26 January. On the basis of my knowledge of the film, I have taken a clear distance from the type of instruments used, and I do not think it is suitable to prevent abortion. It is clear that there is a burden for children under 16 years of age to undergo an abortion, and there is no need to impose more burdens on these children. It is very important to prevent pregnancy among the youngest teenagers. The teenage group as a whole is an important target group for the prevention of unwanted pregnancy because a very large proportion of teen pregnancies end in abortion. Major changes have occurred in both pregnancy and abortion among teenagers. The statistics show that teenage births between the ages of 15 and 19 have been reduced by two thirds from the early 1970s. In the case of abortion rates, the incidence of abortion among teenagers has decreased by more than 20 pst. From the three-year period 1979-81 to the three-year period 1991-93, but after that, the incidence has remained relatively stable at around 16 abortions per month. 1 000 girls in that age group. Therefore, the teenage group remains an important target group in the prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2049	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. I think it gave a very good picture that the accountability that takes place under the law of self-determined abortion has led to much more young people taking responsibility for their actions. I also noticed that the Minister of Health did not answer my question about the impact of different methods of anti-abortion control on young people. Børre Knudsen, an honorary member of Pro Vita, is the most profiled person of the movement. As an abortion opponent, he prefers to dress the clergy, with a cross in one hand and a bloody doll in the other. Young people who get into an abortion tend to get in need of their souls. Many turn to God, try it, and find the way blocked by the Børre Knudsen. What attitude does the Minister of Health have that the will of the Lord and the will of other masters are mixed together in the way that the movement Pro Vita does? I repeat my main question: what mental impact does the Minister of Health have on children who have had abortions?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2056	It is my clear view – I hope that once and for all I can make it clear to everyone who is interested in my position on these issues – that I do not believe in the type of instruments that the film mentioned. I believe on the contrary that it does not serve the case that Norsk Pro Vita is engaged in promoting, or in any reasonable way can contribute to preventing abortions. In addition to that, I would say that I think the use of that type of instrument could be an additional burden for people who are somehow affected by this serious issue. That's why I've taken a clear distance from it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2063	I thank the Minister for his answer to my question. I think it was good to hear that the Minister of Health is taking away from this. I also think it was clarifying to hear a Christian People's Party-State Council confirm that the instruments used in the abortion struggle are helping to increase the burden on young people who are themselves affected by the situation and who are exposed to this. Since the Minister of Health is now withdrawing from the film 'Eclipse of Reason', will he take the initiative to ban this film shown in the country's schools? When it is shown in school context, it is very likely that it meets some young people who feel this film is a direct charge against themselves. Will the Minister for Health take that initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2070	It's in the answer I've given, that I don't think this film is suitable for viewing either at school or elsewhere, but I don't represent Norwegian film censorship. Nor do I know whether it can in any way be affected by Norwegian legislation. It's not my table to assess it. But my recommendation is clear: this is not a suitable tool in teaching these sensitive issues in Norwegian school. I think I too have the full support of the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2078	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Norwegian Pro Vita has received State aid to carry out an anti-abortion campaign with content more appropriate to scare/damage young girls than to provide them with constructive information on abortion. Part of the campaign's content is the film "Eclipse of Reason", "an award winning documentary about women and life & death in the woman". Can the Council of States defend the granting of State aid to this type of campaign, and does he believe that this campaign ‘is a good opportunity to put good Christian People's Party policy into practice’?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2087	Thus, Norwegian Pro Vita has not received State aid to carry out an anti-abortion campaign with the film ‘Eclipse of Reason’. Nor has the organisation applied for funds for such a campaign or for the viewing of such a film. However, in 1998, Pro Vita received a grant of NOK 27 000 for a local project directed by Radio Pro Vita in Sandefjord. The grant is granted from the grant scheme for abortion prevention, and I refer to the needs to address the target population in the prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortions with different strategies and instruments to address actual information to the full range of the target group of young adults and young people. So when the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has supported a single project under the direction of Norsk Pro Vita, it doesn't mean that one goes well for this organisation or its entire operations. Based on my knowledge of the film, as I know from the media, I have, as you know, taken a clear distance from the type of instruments used, and I think it is inappropriate for the purpose. With regard to the representative’s two questions, the answer to both questions is – no. I am also sceptical in general about campaigns with negative messages. Experience from other prevention work shows that such instruments are rarely the most effective in reaching the groups to be met.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2096	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I think the Council of State's response is a little contradictory. We see today that the anti-abortion organisation Pro Vita wants to run an offensive scare campaign aimed at Norwegian youth more to scare and create a bad conscience than to provide constructive information and prevent unwanted pregnancy. Shouldn't the Council of State feel a clear responsibility for stopping the campaign? I cannot understand that the Minister of Health can sit still and see that such a form of carnage moralisation takes place from extreme, reactionary forces that will use all means to promote their abortion. And I would like to repeat the question from the representative Stolt-Nielsen: Will the Council refuse this film to be shown in high school?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2105	I am not going off the road to a debate on what are good pregnancy prevention and abortion prevention measures. That has been discussed by Stortinget, and we will certainly have so in the future. I would like to take part in a dialogue with everyone in this room who is busy limiting the number of unwanted pregnancies and abortions. Here we can agree on a lot of things, regardless of the view of the abortion question. But I have a clear expectation that such a debate will be based on facts. And I react to attempts, as I have seen, to make the Minister of Health responsible for a campaign he has never supported, have not been asked to support and, on the contrary, have taken a clear distance from. I also react to the attempt in the debate to draw the motives for my involvement in abortion prevention and pregnancy prevention measures into doubt. It does not serve a matter that it should be possible to have a relatively wide collection around. I am not a Minister of Education, but I have given clear advice on the use of the specific film in relation to public shows at all, and youth and schooling in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2112	I thank the Council of State for the answer. On the news today, we were introduced to a verdict from the United States where extreme antiabortion organizations had to remove their bloody and extreme material from the Internet. And I have to ask the Council of State how he can defend giving any support to Pro Vita. If it's only NOK 27 000 to the local radio station, it gives a signal from the department that I think is unfortunate, because that means Pro Vita gets to communicate its message around to the youth of the country. That's why I believe that the Council of States, if he takes away from this campaign and from Pro Vita as an organization, should also take a clear distance from giving them financial support, no matter how little the amount was.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2119	I think there should be some limits to what a Norwegian health minister should be responsible for, and the item I heard from today's early on, which concerns anti-abortion activists in the United States, I would not have to stand here and answer for. I think it should be clear through what I have said in my answers to now, that I am not a follower of that kind of means, and that I am taking a distance from them. So to the question if there's a wrong signal. In the case of an application, it must be assessed against the guidelines in force and whether they are being complied with. I cannot at the same time be required to assess all of this organisation's activities and activities in total. It would work out if you, for example, when providing support to the children’s and young people’s organisations, should at the same time be responsible for all the activities of the children’s and young people’s organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2129	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Fearing authorities in the Christian environment believe that homophilis can be cured. Does the Council of State consider that homophilia can be cured and, if so, what methods do the Council of State consider relevant?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2138	The question of cure and treatment for homophilis requires that homophilis be considered a disease. Homophili was removed as a medical diagnosis as early as 1972. Homophili is therefore not a disease that is relevant for the health care system to cure. The new diagnostic system, ICD-10, which was introduced on 1 January 1997, includes the category ‘psychic and behavioural disorders associated with sexual development and orientation’. Sexual orientation is not itself a sign of illness, and it should only be stated if sexual development and orientation are problematic for the individual. I am dealing with this as Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2145	The offer of healing homophilis and the debate in which prominent Christian representatives address this is perceived as deeply offensive. Does the Minister of Health agree that not accepting homophilis itself can lead to health damage? It is right that the Minister of Health here made it clear that there have been decades since homophilia was abolished as a diagnosis. We have a ban on discrimination against homosexuals and lesbians, and the Stortinget has legalized gay couples in line with marriage. What will the Minister of Health do to get these facts out, so that we can stop this offensive business we've seen examples of?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2152	I have received a fundamental question from the representative Eyeågen, and I have given a fundamental answer on how I deal with this as Minister of Health. That's what I think is the relevant health policy issue. In addition to this, I do not need to characterize the eyesight of others or the opinions of others. I take responsibility for my policies and opinions. Others may take responsibility for their own. In general, however, I would like to say that I agree with Mr Eyeågen on her point of view on the need for all those involved in the public debate about these important but sensitive questions to do so on the basis of a fundamental respect for the people affected in various ways. Therefore, all those participating in the public debate should consider how the use of words and forms of presentation work on individuals affected in some way. This applies here as in other areas of public debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2159	In my view, it's a cross of thought and almost absurd that we plague people who only want to live out their love without harming others, while too little of us focus on abuses against children and women that we've seen in many environments, even in the so-called Christian environments, such as: was shown in the programme ‘Firepoint’ yesterday. I wish the Minister of Health would clean up, and along with his government put an end to the psychological bullying of homosexuals that certain preachers carry on in their so-called healing. I would have liked the Minister of Health to have taken a clearer distance from the statements made by, among other things. Jan-Aage Torp and Per Wage.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2166	I take note that the representative Eyeågen wants me to act with index fingers in relation to the public and church debate. So I think it is most appropriate for the matter I had in mind – as I believe the representative Eyeågen and I have in common – that I respond clearly and clearly to what I am dealing with as Minister of Health, that I contribute to factual and real factual information in the area of health care in this context, and that I also encourage you to discuss and present positions and assessments in this way in the light of respect for those people who are somehow affected. That, I think, is an important contribution to a factual debate, and besides that, I cannot see that as Minister of Health, I have no responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2174	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In the film ‘Eclipse of Reason’, which Norsk Pro Vita uses in its information campaign, we see how abortions are treated by health professionals in the United States. In the pamphlet that Norsk Pro Vita is behind, claims are made, among other things, that every three abortions are still born alive, that the mother can witness the fetus's death fight, and that the fetus' screams can be heard. How are abortions treated in Norwegian hospitals?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2183	If abortion is to be carried out, it is important for both the woman and the foetus that this is done in a safe and prudent manner. In St.meld. No 16 for 1995-96, On experience with abortion, etc., different methods of abortion were widely described. It appears from the notification that the most common method until the end of the 12th week of pregnancy is that the procedure is performed as a surgical procedure. The fetus dies during the procedure. In pregnancy interruptions after 12 weeks, stimulation by drugs that induce reactivity in the uterus is used. Foetal and morcoa are excluded by the ropes. Also by this method the fetus dies during the procedure. Gynecologists at Norwegian hospitals confirm that this is still Norwegian practice. In Section 2, last paragraph, the law on abortion provides that a pregnancy cannot be interrupted after the 18th week of pregnancy unless there are particularly serious reasons. If there is reason to believe that the foetus is viable, the permit for termination of pregnancy pursuant to the last paragraph of Section 2 may not be granted. The type of method of abortion mentioned in the Norwegian film Pro Vitas is not used in Norwegian hospitals after 12 weeks. As I have previously stated in answer to question 27 in today's Question Time, I take away from the type of use of images in a public campaign. When it comes to the management of aborted foetuses after abortion, I want to do so in the light of Storting's treatment of Innst. S. No 33 for 1998-99 come back to the Grand Duchy with proposals for the political basis for such guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2196	First, a comment on the Council's last response to me instead. I don't think the council can defend the verdict of the United States, but my point of pointing to it was just that Pro Vita's film, as I've seen, is a very bloody production that should never have been shown. And if the Health Minister had seen the film himself, he would have understood my point, for this is a very, very bloody representation of what an abortion is. In Pro Vita's film, the fetus is literally mutilated, and we see an abortion of a baby that is 24 weeks old. I have another question for the Council of State. Today, when we hear that the Council of State is withdrawing from Pro Vita as an organization, I would like to ask whether it is correct that the Department wants Pro Vita to be the hearing body for an abortion register on latents. Does this bring correctness? And what kind of professional weight does Pro Vita have in terms of being a serious consultative body for such a register?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2203	I am pleased with this clarification, which means that we stick to Norwegian conditions. I am also pleased that it is now established once and for all that when it comes to assessing whether this film is suitable for public viewing, and at all in an abortion campaign, the representative Bekkelem Orheim and I agree that it is not. And then I'm assuming we're done with that. So I've distanced myself from this film, and then also from the campaign. I have not distanced myself from Norsk Pro Vita as an organisation in general. I'm going to deal with what they're coming with. In fact, they may sometimes have something to contribute, and in this case with the local project in Sandfjord, I see it. On the issue of whether they should be a consultative body, there may well be cases where this may be justified. I am basically too long and good lists of hearing bodies, and sees no need in a democracy to try to intercept someone who will express his opinion. The specific question I have to get back to, because I can't answer that right now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2212	I would like to conclude by saying that the Minister of Health has a political responsibility for what is happening in this field, and that is sensitive to most people. I think the Council of State should take seriously -- especially in these days of value commission -- that there's a certain kind of thing here -- that I can't help but say -- carnage moralization and a terrible abortion that makes the burden on the girls who, for various reasons, choose to have abortions much bigger. At the end of the day, I would like to ask the Council of State to answer what I had in my main question, but to which he did not answer: Is it medically correct that every third fetus is born alive, that is, that the fetus is alive after an abortion, and that the mother can hear the child screaming? Does this bring correctness?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2219	Let me first say that I hope that after this we can conduct the debate on the basis of the facts, and that one does not try to assign me or other responsibility for something that one has actually not dealt with until one has been confronted with it in public, and then taken a clear distance from it. I believe that this is a responsible position I have taken. To the specific question: I believe that I answered it quite clearly in my main response, namely that the practice we have at Norwegian hospitals involves a fetus, both before and after 12 weeks, dies during the procedure. I have been confirmed by gynecologists at Norwegian hospitals that it is still a practice, as described in the abortion report.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2226	Question 31 has been answered earlier, after question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2249	These questions are postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2282	These questions are postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 37 has already been answered. That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-03.ana.ud1866e2295	There is no record.
