ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-lower.ana.ud1485e40	Since it is late in the evening and there is a need to end the day on this side of midnight, I will try to stay within 1 hour. This matter is really about three main questions. [[Laughter]] Firstly, the experience gained in the last post-sampling and merger elections. The Ministry has gone through the various postal voting issues and has proposed some improvements to which the Committee agrees and which we believe can further help people to better participate in the elections of local government and county councils for the autumn, regardless of different work situations. The Committee agrees with the proposals that have been put forward and also asks the Ministry to continue to work with the postal voice as the alternative to prior voting. The second main question relates to the movement of citizens between Nordic countries. An EU directive has made it possible for people in the EU to be available at municipal elections at their place of residence, irrespective of their residence. Sweden and Finland have also asserted in their legislation, in the interests of non-discrimination between the Nordics and the Swedishs, that the Nordics and the Icelandics have the same rights. It is only fair and fair that we also grant the same right to Nordic citizens in local government elections and county elections. It actually means that they have not only voting rights, but they can also be nominated on the lists. At this point, only the Progress Party disagrees with the Ministry and the Committee. On another point, however, the majority of the Committee opposes the Ministry's proposal and it is on the question of who should be entitled to exempt persons from employment if they feel that the position is particularly burdensome. The Ministry has proposed that the Electoral Board should actually be able to do so before the municipal elections are over. The Committee is of the opinion that no one can individually decide how difficult a position is before one can see which position to hold. We believe that it is still necessary for the local government and county council to decide whether the individual can be exempted from the position to which they have been chosen. This is a committee number at the back. The Christian People's Party, which is the party of the Government represented in the Committee, naturally agrees with the Government. In these words, I would like to propose the majority voting of the Committee. I only have one thing to add – when I see the Council of State here: From some municipalities, the question of postal voting is for residents in the municipalities that have no longer taken up the post office. It's quite obvious that we can't change this in this round, but we've unanimously asked the committee that the department look into the situation in the municipalities that don't have a post office, so that they too can get an offer related to post office voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-lower.ana.ud1485e55	There are three things I want to focus on. First – as also the representative Kosmo had in mind – the postal voting system: I would like to underline the need to organise postal voting in those municipalities that do not have a post office. There are not many municipalities involved, and I am pleased that there is a unanimous committee asking the Ministry to take the initiative of the Election Law Committee to investigate the issue and assess the consequences of allowing prior voting at post offices. The second concerns the correction to the ballot. Here the members of the Committee have different views. The Christian People's Party supports the Ministry's proposal to introduce standardised rules of law for the whole country. The practice of the rules will be easier and may also lead to more correct and faster decision-making. We would stress that the voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter. It will only be the change itself that will become invalid. We therefore believe that there is nothing to prevent the introduction of standardised rules in the first choice. We do not share the majority's scepticism about removing the ironing option in favour of checking in columns. In this context, it is interesting to note a study from 1991 carried out by the Institute for State Science and the Institute for Social Research. Despite a so-called long-term practice on the deletion of list candidates, the study concludes that there is a great deal of ignorance among voters about the functioning of the electoral system. 14 pst. is well-informed, 29 pst. is insecure and 35 pst. are directly misinformed about the functioning of the candidate selection. I have also noticed that Kristiansand municipality will carry out electoral tests at the 1999 elections. I think that the proposal to remove the deletion of the voting rights is interesting. The fact that Norwegian municipalities will experiment with alternative eradicating and cumulation rules could provide useful experience when the Election Law Committee will conclude on this theme later. The third and last thing I want to address is the proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Right – the proposal is included on page 12 of the vote. In Section 14, we will have a new third paragraph, which is replaced by the following: ‘The County Electoral Board may, upon application, exempt from the choice of county council and local council that will not be able to discharge its responsibilities without disproportionate difficulty or stress. ‘... This corresponds to the rules in force before the amendment in 1995. The proposed provision is discretionary and with strict criteria for granting exemptions. We believe that experience suggests that it would seem unreasonable in individual cases if an exemption could not be granted until after the election has been completed. As well as all the hearing bodies that have expressed their views on the proposal, want harmonisation of the exemption rules in the municipal law and the electoral law, and believe that the electoral board should be allowed to grant exemptions under these conditions. We therefore support the Ministry's proposal to introduce such a provision, and I am referring to the proposal from the minority. For others, the Committee's recommendation is recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-lower.ana.ud1485e75	Kari Økland has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-lower.ana.ud1485e78	Taking into account the time, I will be quite short and just give an answer to what the committee leader asked for: It is quite right that the postal polling has proved to be a success and that the ministry wants to make some improvements in some practical procedures. There are problems with the fact that not all municipalities have their own post offices, and as requested by the Committee, the Ministry will take the initiative before the Electoral Commission, in order to determine whether postal voting should also be introduced at the post offices. What can be achieved in the current year is a collaboration with the Post – one can solve it in such a way that the inhabitants of the municipality can vote one or two days at institutions. We are in dialogue with the Post to try to get into such an arrangement for the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-lower.ana.ud1485e85	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-lower.ana.ud1485e93	The odelsting goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-lower.ana.ud1485e99	During the debate, Kari Økland, on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Right, put forward a proposal, which was included on page 12 of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-lower.ana.ud1485e120	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-lower.ana.ud1485e170	The President will then vote on the proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Right to Section 14 new third paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law of 1 March 1985 No Section 14 new third paragraph shall be replaced by the following:The County Election Board may, on application, exempt from the choice of county council and local council that will not be able to discharge its responsibilities without disproportionate difficulty or stress. [[optional law]] ‘... The President has understood that the Central Party and the Left support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-lower.ana.ud1485e458	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-lower.ana.ud1485e465	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
