ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e50	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: André Kukkestad For the Province of Buskerud: Unni Hennum Lie For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Ottar Kaldhol For the Nordic region: Bears Olsen For the Rogaland County: Ingrid Fisaa For Telemark County: Kari Lise Holmberg For the Westfold province: Karin Lian From the representative Dag Danielsen there is a notice that the licence application granted, with subsequent amendment, for the period from 30 November to 1 December is withdrawn. – This message is taken into account. Three permit applications are available: from the representative of Anita Apelthun Sæle on leave from 30 November to 3 December to attend a conference on electronic commerce in San Francisco from the Central Party on the welfare permit of the representative No Quail Bay from 30 November to 3 December from the Left on sick leave for the representative Terje Johansen from 30 November until 3 December until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave:For Akershus County: Borghild TendenFor Hordaland County: Kurt-Arne LangelandFor Nordland County: Jon Tørset
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e132	Kurt-Arne Langeland and Jon Tørset are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e137	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e142	I suggest Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e147	Per Ove Width is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Width is unanimously elected President of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e155	The representative of Tor Nymo will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e159	On behalf of myself, I would like to make a private proposal to investigate measures to strengthen the rights of victims of violence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e164	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e176	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 759]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e190	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 759]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e204	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 760]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e218	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the 25 minutes working party, the 10 minutes progress party, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the right 10 minutes, the centre 5 minutes, the Socialist Left 5 minutes, the left 5 minutes and the representatives of Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e223	The proposal put forward by the representatives of the Progress Party in the Committee on Transport in due course was twofold. Point 2 read: ‘NSB BA is transferred from the Ministry of Transport to the Ministry of Industry.’ Point 2 of the proposal was not addressed in Stortinget, cf. The third paragraph of Section 12 of the Constitution, which is known as: «The King shall distribute business among the members of the Government as he deems fit.» That's why the Government Seawaters are the sovereign one to decide how departments and underlying agencies are arranged. In the case of point 1 of Document No: The 8-proposal that we are dealing with today, I would like to start by saying that I really don't have numbers on how many times the Right Party and the Advance Party in the last couple of years have suggested that it should be opened in order for others other than the NSB to be able to operate rail transport. I would also say that it is somewhat misleading to present it as if it were only the NSB that is currently operating rail transport, and as if it were only the NSB that can operate rail transport. First of all, the NSB is already heavily competitive in terms of transport. I think of the great competition that rail transport has from road traffic and from air traffic, and as far as freight is concerned, it is no longer such that only the NSB can operate freight on the Norwegian rail network. It is already in the form of a regulation opened to, among other things, international rail transport companies may operate freight transport services on the Norwegian network. Therefore, the wording of the proposal, which states that one should ‘open the railway system to other actors’, is somewhat misleading. The rail running of the railway works is already open to other operators. What I interpret as the main point from the proposers is to open up so that more people can operate freight and passenger transport. As I said, freight transport is already open, and I want to concentrate on passenger transport. There is currently no open access to the Norwegian network for all those wishing to operate passenger services. If desired, today's regulations must be changed by the Government. So far, there has been no political majority in the Grand Duchy to make such changes. In addition, apart from the Right and Advance Party, the Committee does not wish to open up in this round in order to allow more people to operate passenger services on the Norwegian network. Or to put it more precisely: the majority in the committee don't want to decide on this now, but I'm not going to advance what's going to be Norwegian railway policy in two, five or ten years. The reason why the majority do not now want to decide on this is that the Ministry of Transport has been given an interesting report by the Transport Economic Institute – TØI – which deals with competition on the Norwegian network. This is a report that was prepared and presented this summer and has now been sent to the relevant bodies at the hearing. The majority will therefore not draw conclusions now. We await the treatment following the consultation round that is now underway, where one will get the industry and industry to consult if it may be appropriate to bring more actors into the Norwegian network. We're going to get back to the conclusions. We in the majority want to come back to them in full on the consideration of the national transport plan for spring. Instead of having a long and thorough debate now, we want to go for a few months and take the debate, as I said, when we deal with the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e251	The first route in Norway was opened in 1854 between Kristania and Eidsvoll. Since then, the NSB has been one of the country's most tone-setting transport companies with exclusive rights on the railway works' railways. Following a merger decision of 14 November 1996, the former traffic part of the NSB was converted into the NSB BA special-law company as of 1 December 1996. At the same time, the managing body of the Railway Agency was established and is responsible, inter alia, for: to expand and maintain the network. I should like to refer to Document No. 8:46 for 1997-98 and Innst. S. No 136 for 1997-98 by the Committee on Transport on the proposal from Thore Aksel Nistad and myself to distinguish economically and organisationally between NSB BA, the Railway Agency and the Railway Authority. This proposal was not given to the majority, but to the St.prp. No 1 for 1998-99, it was stated that from 1 July 1999 a complete organisational distinction was made between the NSB BA and the State Administrative Agency of the Railway Agency by the fact that the two entities will no longer have the same Executive Director. The Board of Railways was proposed to be wound up from the same date. The economic and organisational distinction between NSB BA and the Railway Works is thus legally completed and opens up the theory of open competition on the railway track of the Railway Works. For a long time, rail transport has experienced declining market shares in both passenger and freight transport. The market share of passenger transport in 1997 was 87,4 p.m. on the road, 6.8 pst. for aeroplanes and 4,2 pst. for railway. For freight transport, the market share in 1997 was 55,7 pst. on the road, 35,1 pst. for ships and 9,2 pst. for railway. The Contracting Party considers that this shows a disproportionate relationship between what is provided in State aid to the railway and the transport work carried out in comparison with other modes of transport. The solution to this problem will be to open up more competition and greater private involvement in the railway sector, which may also facilitate the involvement of private capital in the sector. This will also allow for more investment in this area, both in driving paths and in rolling stock. In Sweden, rail-side competition through tenders has led to several departures, several open stations and several passengers without increasing the cost of the State and there have been several actors. With the rounds of State tenders, the cost reduction was 21 pst. for the first two years, 1992 and 1993, and stable costs for subsequent rounds. The Progress Party believes that an important reason for opening rail access to other actors will be to make better use of the common resource of the rails. Such exploitation will create increased competition in the transport market and a wider range of services. It is necessary to look at the railway as a European road, which must be used in the best possible way and accessible to all. It is therefore important that, by opening up the railway system to other operators, the emphasis should be placed on equal conditions of competition for the different operators operating the same type of rail transport in the same markets. The Progress Party also considers that an uncomplicated system of clear responsibilities and transparency should be provided for, in order to promote optimal coordination, in order to achieve the appropriate and efficient operation of the railway. It may therefore be appropriate to establish a company or a management unit responsible for the State tendering processes with good knowledge of the rail market. The Party considers that when purchasing transport services, trains should be assessed in conjunction with other modes of transport, such as: train, bus or aeroplane. Where operators other than the NSB are allowed to use the railway, it is important that the operation of the train does not go beyond safety. The Progress Party believes that further opening up to competition on the track strengthens some unfortunate conditions resulting from the increased role of the Ministry of Transport in the railway area. In the case of competition, the award of a railway line must take place outside the department of a separate company or administrative unit. The Progress Party also refers to TØI Report 429/1999, which addresses many of the issues raised by opening the railway system to other actors. Among other things, the implementation of several EU directives in the Norwegian legislation in the 1990s opened up to competition in some areas. For example, there is an opening for international associations of railway undertakings operating cross-border services to operate on the Norwegian network. In some cases, one has also gone slightly beyond the requirements of the EU Directives on opening up competition on the Norwegian network. For example, a France Freeways cooperation establishes freight corridors through Nordic and other European countries, with open competition between private and State freight operators. Eastfold Railway, Kongswingerbahnen and Ofotbanen are currently part of such corridors. The Progress Party wishes to move towards new applications for existing track capacity. This is not clear to the existing state railway companies, and we believe that this is room for new formations. The Party also considers it desirable to suspend the State-purchased passenger transport services and to do so in the event of competitive tendering. In such procedures, it would be appropriate to split the grid and to place «product packages» on the market. Finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to mention the proposal put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e281	Sir. Stoneware has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e284	As Stortinget is well known, there are already operators other than NSB BA on some parts of the Norwegian railway network. This includes, inter alia: a consequence of the implementation of several EU directives in the Norwegian legislation in the 1990s. For example, it is open to international associations of railway undertakings operating cross-border services to operate on the Norwegian network. In order to strengthen the railway as a means of transport, Norway has, in some cases, gone slightly further than the EU directives require in terms of opening up competition on the Norwegian network. As already mentioned, the ‘Friight Freeways’ cooperation has established freight corridors for rail transport through Nordic and other European countries, with open access for both private and public freight operators. Although it is open to competition to some extent, there are few carriers in addition to the NSB on the Norwegian rail network. Ore traffic AS operates the transport of iron ore between Narvik and Kiruna on Ofotbanen, NSB’s wholly owned subsidiary NSB Gardermobanen AS operates the transport to and from the new main airport, and there are some more hobby rail activities. In light of, inter alia: ongoing work in the EU on new proposals for directives – the so-called railway package – currently assesses the Ministry of Transport the appropriateness of further opening up of access to the network. The Transport Economic Institute, on behalf of the Ministry, has recently completed a project in which they have explored alternative strategies to facilitate open access to the rail network in Norway. This report has been mentioned several times already. The results of this work, together with TØI’s recommendations, are presented in this report, entitled ‘Competition on the Norwegian network’, which has been submitted as late as now in October. The report has a good discussion of issues that should be further assessed if we want to open up further competition on the rail network. There are several reasons why we should probably deal with freight and passenger transport in a temporally different manner in terms of possible gradual organisation for increased competition on the track. We have already gone a little further than the EU requires in terms of opening up competition to freight transport, and there can probably be more competition in this area without major problems. In the case of passenger transport, TØI recommends in its report to slow down and await the situation to look at deregulation in, for example: England and Sweden. England, as we know, has gone a long way in reforming railway operations as part of its privatisation efforts. Another aspect that needs to be considered is the possibility that one with several actors creates a need for control and coordination that is more costly than the current regime. In this context, it must be pointed out that there are probably economies of scale in train operation. This means that one company can operate all or part of the network at lower costs than more small ones. However, there may be organisational solutions in the case of joint functions, such as stations and workshop services, which can help to mitigate the existence of such economies of scale. It is also natural to treat the train services covered by the State purchasing system for rail passenger services separately from the other passenger services. TØI suggests that train offers subject to State purchases should be put out of competition through competitive tendering procedures. This means that there must be more real actors on the road. In addition, this is a matter which itself requires a piece of preparatory work, and it must be borne in mind not least how this could affect the NSB, which is in the context of a major conversion process. Moreover, deregulation and liberalisation are not necessarily the only means of achieving cost-effectiveness. Competition from road and air traffic also contributes to reducing the potential opportunities for operators to take monopoly profits in the rail market. The report from TØI, which addresses these and other issues, is now being discussed in the Ministry of Transport. In the first instance, the Ministry has sent the report on a limited consultation to key actors, such as: NSB BA, the Railway Agency and the Transport Users’ Joint Organisation. I propose to present the further follow-up to these issues in the National Transport Plan Annual Report 2002-11, to be presented in spring 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e301	Listening to the Minister of Transport and the Workers' Party's representative, Sverre Myrli, here today, it should be thought that there are a whole range of different actors operating the rail network. In addition, the representative of Myrli says that there is competition in freight transport. The only competition I can see in freight transport must be on the freight transport that runs on the E6 through the Gudbrand valley. There's free competition between the trails. But on the line that the Railway Agency has there, it's probably just one actor. The regulations state that, in addition to NSB BA, the following activities may be allocated train paths, namely, as the Council of State correctly said, the undertakings covered by the EEA Directives — Trans European Rail Freight Freeways. And then it says: ‘Railway undertakings which, by way of exception, the King has authorised under Section 8 of the Railway Act to operate freight and/or passenger services on parts of the railway network in which the State railway operator’ — i.e. NSB – ‘has set up such traffic’. So it's on the lines where NSB won't run, that others can run. But there is one more exception in the case of establishments that are allowed to run, and that is ‘museum and hobby railway activities’. They are allowed to operate. Now I don't know if the representative Myrli considers the NSB to be running a museum and hobby railway business, because if he does, he has the right to have free competition on the line. But I think the NSB is a little better than a ‘museum and hobby railway business’. So in reality, the NSB has full control and is the sole operator. They are also practically on their way alone. If a bus company, e.g. NOR-WAY Busexpress AS, will run a route and the route that should happen to be near a line, does not get the company concession to run. When I'm going to go from Gjøvik and get in here, I have one alternative, and that's NSB. The bus companies that have applied for permission to drive that route do not get it because the NSB has a monopoly – not only on the railway, but they have it de facto on their way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e321	With all due respect, a real lever for the development of the museum and hobby railway here in the Kingdom had been to follow the railway policy of the Progress Party in practice. I think it's interesting and nice to hear the touching commitment to the railway that the representatives of the Progress Party show in the Stortinget. It is only a pity that the relevant exposure exists only when it comes to privatisation and sale of shares in the NSB, and when it comes to deregulation of the rail market. If we want more rail transport, we are faced with two issues. Firstly, in the central eastern region, where most of the rail traffic is currently taking place, there is no room for more operators. The problem is that the network is detonated, there is no room for trains. Go into the Oslo tunnel and see, by the way, it's not recommended, but look into the problems in the Oslo tunnel: the trains are in line, there's no room for more trains. But out in the districts, where there is a relatively small population base, we have a fresh example from the Bratsberg Railway, where private people would be involved in railway operations with the NSB. I'm sorry that that project crashed and that it didn't go any further. But my point is that the arguments of the Progress Party that only we get more private operators, we get more rail transport, that's overdrive. I said quite precisely in my first post, I am reasonably sure, that it is also not free for anyone to operate freight by rail. If the representative Nistad wants to start ‘Nistad rail transport AS’, he will not be allowed to operate that rail transport – and I must say fortunately for it! It is open for international rail associations to operate freight transport services on the Norwegian network. That was, and is, my point. Therefore, the message from the Progress Party that the railway system should be opened up to other actors is misleading. There are several who operate and can operate rail transport. So at the end, if the Progress Party wants to show its real commitment to the railway, they have a good chance to do that in the next few days. The Committee on Transport shall complete its budgetary procedure on Friday. It is fully possible both with additions to the NSB and with additions to the Railway Works. I understand that the usual cutting suggestions in the railway works area will be replaced.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e336	The main motive for taking the word now is actually that I want to take advantage of this opportunity to say that I am reasonably satisfied with the approach angle of the department. It's not every day I say it, but I think it's good to have it said too. What is important is that borders do not become a barrier to international freight transport, and that this works well, so that rail as a mode of transport can be strengthened on the freight side. I am also pleased that the Council of State says that he wants to look at experiences from countries that have gone a long way in deregulation, see how it works. A so-called track-side competition can end up with chaos on the track. On the roads there is room for most. At airports you get your slots, but on the railway there is another kind of infrastructure. One thing is that down in Oslogryta there's almost no room on the track, because the capacity isn't there, but seafaring out in the country is actually going to be this with priority to become a matter that there's going to be huge controversy about. Who shall stand on the crossing track or siding and wait for crossing trains? So, who's to be given priority? The priority on the railway can really be a matter that can eventually end up as a kind of justice with disputes between companies, and competition can actually end up in chaos. It's not going to promote rail transport. I also think it is important to think long-term in this area. Bratsbergbanen was mentioned as an example of Sverre Myrli. I believe in a way that one must be aware that rail as a mode of transport, as an infrastructure, is different from the road and also different from the airports, and that rail must be strengthened as a mode of transport in competition with road traffic and air traffic. There are then a number of other framework conditions that are much more important than getting into any small, unprofitable company to try to see if they can find a small market on the railway side, where profitability can be found. I also have little faith in spending the purchase of services on tenders. Experience from the competition we have now had on the short-range network shows that there are very few actors. Those that are there are very small, and maybe not those that you really want. The same is true on the railway side. It will require huge investments to be a serious railway player, both in terms of material and competence. No one has that quality today. I am therefore very pleased if the department takes a critical review of experience from those countries that have gone a long way in deregulation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e349	The representative Myrli said that the network is already detonated, there is too little space, there is no room for more actors, and so we just have to keep the NSB. It's okay that exactly in the Oslo tunnel there's been a blast, there's no room for any more. Then he comes with that we want to cut down and that we can really do something good for the NSB in the budgetary procedure now, we can increase even more. But what does the NSB get from subsidies today? They'll get $960 million. NOK – almost NOK 1 billion – without asking if others are interested in running cheaper than NSB on various routes. The majority divides out completely uncritically. One billion dollars to the NSB to run there. I am absolutely sure that this amount could be halved if you asked other actors to do so. I would like to refer to reports from Sweden and other countries where this attempt has been made. One does not necessarily have to pop up ten different companies to run on the same route. You can do what you do with bus concessions, you put it on offer, and the one who runs the best and cheapest and who has the best offer – it's the department that adds up how to do it, and you have to control – is the one who gets the contract. It's that simple. There can be no witchcraft, that it must be different for rail than for aircraft and bus.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e356	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 760]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e370	I'll just briefly say that the matter we have here, in the opinion of the Financial Committee, is a purely budgetary matter. Both the proposal to extend the Loan Framework of the House Bank and the proposal for increased appropriations for rental dwellings in this Document No. The 8-proposal from Karin Andersen is matters that belong to the state budget and have been dealt with there. One of the proposals from Karin Andersen was even proposed by the Government. That is why the majority of the Committee refers to the comments and proposals in the budget position. We think the matter belongs there, and propose that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e377	I think the rapporteur's input in this case says all about how little the bulk of the population really understands how difficult the housing market is for young people and for those who don't have such good advice. This is a purely budgetary matter, says Giske. Yeah, I guess the money in it is. But this is about a big structural debate, about how to organise Norwegian society, how to organise and finance maybe what's most important in everyday life for most of us, that we have a roof over our heads and how much it's going to cost. Housing is a necessity, and there is no marginal problem, as it appears that the Government and also the majority believe. I would like to refer to a letter that the municipal committee received in our course when we considered the biggest report on housing for young and disadvantaged people, where the government writes that preliminary reports from the big cities show that the need for subsidies is much higher than the appropriations. They also indicate that a lower floor for needs based on these sober municipal estimates is 2 000 additional dwellings per year. According to the Ministry’s assessment, before the local plans are available, there may be a need ranging from 2000 to 5000 additional dwellings per year for a five-year period if the need remains constant in the future. And we know that it's not, for example. from 1 January 2000, the last house rental regulations are removed, so that the price does not increase so quickly, but over a few years, the very many other cheap rental homes are being phased out of the market. So this is not a marginal problem. The price goes up on both rental and ownership. And we're talking about what matters most to people's private finances. It's these prices that take the largest share of pay for people, both rents and rents and instalments. Trying to marginalize that rental prices are rising because interest rates have now fallen, I think is a rather risky argument. Now we know that the interest rate in both the Husbanken and the Loan Fund is market driven. When the prices are so high and if the interest rates are suddenly to pop up again, we know that people get completely insurmountable problems in their private economy. Those in the rental market are often young people and unfettered, and many of them are already paying a very unreasonable rent in the market. What can solve this is an increased offer of non-profit rental dwellings based on self-cost, and that is what this proposal is all about. The situation for most young people today is that they have a large student loan after studying, and when they are going to finance a dwelling, there are a lot of banks that choose to say no to loans. The result is that they have to go into an already pressed rental market, and that they never manage to build up equity that allows them to enter the own market. I see that the Government in a letter of reply to the Committee refers to the establishment loan scheme. It would have been something if that scheme was big enough, and if it wasn't so that it's almost like getting the camel through the loop to get such a loan. It is a very small group that can be part of the establishment loan scheme, because either you earn too little or you earn too much. You have to be good at meeting the exact level of income and the level of expenditure that makes it possible to obtain such a loan. And then to perhaps the most important thing: there's a huge shortage of rentals in Norway in general, and it's been for many years. I think that's actually a reality that needs to be described many times before we really understand what it's like. In Norway, we are a different country at a disadvantage when it comes to rental homes. We have too few, and it helps to make the price very high when there are many people asking for a rental home, and that's what it is today. There are many people who are asking for a rental home because they do not have access to a loan, there are many who are asking for it because they have very low income, and there are many who are asking for it simply because they choose this form of residence. There's a lot of people who do, and I think that's going to increase. What this proposal is about is to establish housing for those who have small incomes or who are young and need freedom of choice at that stage – a freedom of choice that does not put them in a debt-absence situation for the rest of their lives. Many surveys have been carried out on the share of the rental market in Norway in relation to the countries around us. I won't take that up again, because it's in the proposal. However, there are also quite a number of reports, including: the 1997 survey on living conditions, which shows that the number of rental dwellings in Norway is actually falling. And they're going down a lot of short-term business, increased wages and income else, because it's that a very large part of the rental properties in Norway are rental areas inside people's private homes. So this is what you rent out to be able to finance your own loans, and when you get good advice and you have paid off loans, you end up with it. That means we don't have any control over how many apartments we have on the rental market, and very few of them are subsidised. In addition, many studies show that youth income has fallen in recent years compared to the rest of the population, and that it has not been shared in income growth in the same way as others. Studies presented last week also show that young people are able to buy housing and enter the housing market to a lesser extent today than 10 years ago. It's quite special, because otherwise the wealth is increasing quite dramatically in this society. And so we know what's needed. There are two things: there are cheap plots, and there are increased grants. Cheap plots have to be taken into account by both the State and the municipalities. You cannot continue to sell everything you have from land suitable for housing to the highest bidder. Both municipalities and states have to take responsibility for the earmarking of these plots for reasonable housing and for regulating them in such a way that they do not become segregated areas but become a mixed housing stock there that targets several groups. It's completely possible. With regard to money, this is what this proposal is about. It's about granting enough money, so that municipalities can either build or buy rental homes and offer them at a price that makes it possible for young people and people with poor advice to end up as debt slaves forever. The fear that we will have an excessive renting sector, as the department has written in the letter to the committee, and as the committee agrees, I have to say that I think it is considerably exaggerated when you know how little this rental market in Norway is. We're going to build a hell of a lot for a lot of years before it starts to get too many, so I think maybe you could have saved yourself being so worried about it. If you refer to neighboring countries and see how much they have built, and that, for example, Some Swedish municipalities now have problems with too much housing mass in what they call ‘public utility’, so I haven’t calculated how many extra dwellings we had to build every year and for how many years we were going to run in order to get into a similar situation, but it’s thus a complete record bomb in relation to the volume of the proposal that has been promoted here. I'm promoting the proposal that we have in the vote, and I'm appealing to the majority of people to take this topic a little more seriously than I think they've done so far. So this is about the most important thing for people, the possibility of getting a home. That's the starting point for keeping and having a job, that's the starting point for learning, that's the starting point for receiving health care and that there's going to be something useful about it, that's the starting point for every person's personal life – and not least, it has to be in Storting's interest that we give people a different choice than ending up in debt for the rest of their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e405	Karin Andersen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e408	Differences between people are increasing in Norway as in most other countries. The richest become richer, while many people lose during this development. This is the background for the SV proposal. Housing policy is both a good example of the increasing differences and a reason for the differences. It's provocative to walk through Oslo's streets for the time being, and unfamiliar to a mover. Here, then, there are delegators – the number is up to 6,000 in Oslo only – side by side with newly built office facilities. In a city with desperate housing shortages, which also results in house occupations and a desperate situation for many students, splendid office and business premises are given priority first. Housing policy is also a cause of problems. There are too few reasonable rentals, and too few rentals at all. Youth, students and those in the process of establishing themselves have been awarded a private housing market with sky-high prices, especially in the big cities. SV wants many more public rentals to be built. By getting more housing and renting these are kept at a reasonable level, this will also regulate rent on the private market. SV suggests that the number of new buildings should be estimated to be 3000 during the year. This is even below the number that the Government itself thinks is necessary, roughly 5,000. And then it's strange that no other party can support this proposal. The proposal to increase support, or to increase the cost frame for students, will not be as effective as new construction, because renting in a market that will only be seen higher. It's okay to sit in here and say that this is going to be too difficult, and we can't say this, etc., but it's not quite as good as being a student and trying to survive on student loans that are just due to pay rent – or to venture into working life as newcomers, with low wages, and at the same time try to establish themselves, preferably in a core family, of course, as the Government likes. If you were so bold to take up student loans at first, and you weren't so smart that you've turned out to be a computer engineer or a full-time politician, you'd be tired of overindulging the bank in getting a loan to a cool little house. Then it's out on the free market, where you're allowed to stay in whole. Yes, thank you! A social housing policy is about justice, because it will help mitigate the damage caused by an increasing diversity policy. It's about the freedom of the individual, the freedom to move from home before you're 30 years old, the freedom to live in cardboard boxes for many years in a stretch, the freedom from becoming a debt slave. A fair housing policy is not about creating losers of young people who don't have rich parents, and not putting us back to the time we had before the welfare state was fought. The right-hand rhetoric about freedom for individuals is reduced to just rhetoric – rhetoric without content, when something as fundamental as a place to live is to be alienated from people's freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e427	I was quite provoked by Karin Andersen's statement that the committee's consideration of the matter shows how little we understand about the difficult situation on the rental market and for young people who need housing. I believe that the Committee on Finance regards most of the matters dealt with in the budget as very important, and I think that we also, at least my party, regard the situation of young people on the housing market as very important. That is why, in the compromise with the government parties, we also got an increase in the allocation of rental properties. But it cannot be the case that every matter that comes up in the State budget is also to be dealt with as Document No. Eight proposals, and that we should have a separate debate on every detail of the state budget, although it is such an important detail as rental houses. There has been a full opportunity to debate this for two days in the financial debate, and that occasion used Karin Andersen. She could even have used a wooden-minute post if she had wanted it. There is full opportunity to take this debate in the context of the relevant technical budget, there is full opportunity to address this issue in the debate on the Cohesion Communication, and if you wanted to focus the matter, you could also take it up in a separate interview. Of course, everyone has the full opportunity to address such matters in Document No. Eight proposals, and in particular it may be necessary if you have poor communication with your own party member of the Financial Committee, if you feel that the matter has not been properly put on the financial position map, but I will not recommend such a procedure. It belongs entirely when we have a draft budget. It's not like that, for example. The Labour Party is essentially opposed to giving as much money to rental properties as Karin Andersen wants, but we see the budget in a whole, and then there was no room, because we have many other important issues in that budget. That is why this debate also took place in the financial debate. If you want a fundamental discussion about housing policy, I would recommend that you take it into consideration in an interpellation. If there were to be a document no. 8-proposals in all of the cases where 165 raisers are involved in the state budget, I think we were going to be here far into the Christmas week.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e436	First, I want to reject the claim from Karin Andersen that the government is not busy with the housing situation for young people and people with difficulty. It is enough to refer to the budget presented and the agreement we have reached with the Labour Party. When it comes to the procedure, I'm going to do my best to point out to Trond Giske's posts. I'm completely in agreement with him in it. And Karin Andersen also said in his own post that this is about money. Yes, it does, and that's why it relates, it belongs together in the budget, and it was treated as part of the budget; it shows the configuration of the financial committee. Clearly, there are important issues that have been raised here, I have no problem going on, but they need to be debated in the context of which it is natural to debate them. And Karin Andersen also showed himself to the big message that was handled last year, that it was the right way to deal with this. The problem may be first and foremost in the procedure and the fact that this is so strongly linked to direct appropriations, to the budget. If there's a general debate you want, there's a possibility to take it in other contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e445	Firstly, I fully agree with the representative Giske's assessment of the proceedings in this area. I also fully agree that the debate must be taken when the technical budget is being discussed. After all, we in the municipal committee are going to give up our budget position later today, and I find it in a way wrong to address the debate as broadly and thoroughly as the representative Karin Andersen has done. Nevertheless, I would say that the post of the representative is in a way a reprisal of the treatment of St.meld. No 49 for 1997-98, on the establishment of housing for young and disadvantaged people. Here was the Workers' Party and SV largely agreed. And when the trade union committee is giving its opinion today, I think one will also see that there will be a wide-ranging majority taking the housing situation a little more offensively than what we've done. We will also have the opportunity to discuss this problem in the context of the defrosting message, as the representative Giske said. Two thirds of our social clients do not have satisfactory housing conditions, according to that message. We also know that CONSTRUCTION RESEARCH has said that about 6,200 people are homeless. There is an unacceptable situation for many in the housing market, so I think we're going to try to do something about it. But as I said, I find it difficult to take that whole debate now, we will do that when we are going to discuss our professional budget, and likewise when we are going to deal with the balancing message.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e452	I might be able to thank you for these slightly instructive words from my co-representatives. This is a detail being said, and it's a reprisal. Yes, we're going to be allowed to live with this reprisal until something significant is done about this area, because this area is so important that it deserves much more attention than it gets today. That's why I'm taking it up. I'm sorry if anyone thinks that this detail takes up the time of the Storting, but it's actually about people having a place to live. And I repeat, I feel that you don't care enough about this, and that you don't have enough inside your heart to do what is sufficient. Building homes takes time. It's not done in 14 days to look up people's houses. We know that many people are struggling with this. In addition, we know that there are several thousand homeless people, and we have known that for years. The winter is no new phenomenon in Norway, it comes every year, and it has always done so. Still, we keep saying that this is what we're going to do next year, and we're going to put down a sample, and we're going to talk about it, and we're going to prioritize it, and we're not against it as a principle, but unfortunately there were other things that were more important this time as well. We shall also discuss this when the Municipal Committee is going to discuss its budget. I take note that more people believe that this is not the right way to address such a debate. I also know, because I was a participant in the debate in our report on housing housing for young and disadvantaged people, that we have discussed it once a year, but the result of that treatment was not satisfactory, sail if I see that there is a positive movement in the direction of a majority in the Grand Duchy. But it goes too slowly, and it goes beyond someone that it shouldn't be allowed to go outside. The important thing, as I repeat, is that Norway lacks a large part of the housing market, which other countries have, and which is a buffer for young and disadvantaged people and people with not too much income, so that they can have a choice in their lives, that they are not pushed into a rental market full of house sharks that take all the money from them, so that they can never save themselves money so they can buy an apartment. This is an important issue of society, because this is about how we build up the important structures of society. So here we've been failing for years. Social housing in Norway is reduced by 70pst. In the last five years, and when, at the same time, all the old regulations have been removed – and that was necessary, because we could not maintain – it goes wrong for many. And then I ask that the bulk of the population carry over with my commitment to this matter. It's going to have to live on until we get a completely different bet in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e463	I regret if my explanation of the financial committee's principle approach to this matter seemed instructive, but I must say that Karin Andersen's approach to this matter also seems relatively instructive. It is rather instructive to stand here and say that the reason why this matter has been addressed in such a way, through a Document No. 8 proposals, this is a matter that causes a burning commitment that comes from the heart. The reason why the Committee on Finance rejected the proposal is not that we do not have the heart that Karin Andersen calls for. I think it's a burning commitment -- at least I can say it when it comes to my game -- to get more rental homes. I should have liked to have allowed more. It's an equally burning commitment to getting a better community economy -- I'd like to see we got more there -- it's a burning commitment to getting more to education, it's a burning commitment to getting more to the sick and the elderly. But if, after the state budget had been dealt with, we were to bring up a Document No. 8-proposals on every single thing that we had a burning commitment to, to prove that we have this burning commitment, and not putting it into the whole thing that the government budget is, we would get pretty unsustainable employment. I'm more provoked now than I was after the first post from Karin Andersen, because it seems as if this is a competition for having the strongest burning commitment, and that the one proposing the most Document No. Eight proposals have won.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e468	The housing situation of young people is one of the most important issues we have to deal with in the years to come, and it is essential to have the map put on the map. It is also important that interest rates are low, it is important that we have low unemployment in Norway, it is important that we keep track of the economy, it is important that we have good funding for studies, and it is important that we fulfill the commitments in relation to increasing the grant rate for young people who want to take education. The government has not been close to complying with this in relation to the Waxenå Declaration. It is also important to provide land around the municipalities, so that it is actually possible to build houses. In particular, this is a major problem in the press areas of the East and in some of our larger cities. This has also been an important part of the debate leading to the financial position adopted last week. What got me to speak in the first place was that the representative Karin Andersen believed that the others from the finance committee who took the floor for her Document No. 8-proposals, had a learning tone and came up with instructive words. In fact, I think it is unnecessary to go to the characteristics of co-representatives in that way. Of course, you work because what you think is the right solution for getting a better housing situation, among other things. for young people. I therefore react quite strongly when Karin Andersen says that the rest of the Stortinget must ‘carry over with my involvement in this matter’ until the matter is resolved, and that she presents it as if only she has a heart condition, that she has almost a special right to care about the housing situation of young people. Of course, if there's one thing I'm burning for, young people are going to get a real place to live. We have followed that up in the Right Alternative Budget. We have set up a budget that leads to lower interest rates, and we have committed to a responsible economic development that will give Norwegian young people a real offer. It cannot be that SV puts the social sensitivities of other representatives into question. That's what I think is a debate technique and a debate style that you're going to stick to too well, and I had actually been waiting for a slightly more serious tone from Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e476	Karin Andersen has had the word twice. She gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e479	The provocations that have been carried out in this debate, I think, are good. This means that there are several people who now want to take a stronger initiative in this matter. If it can drive someone to get through what they say they want, then SV and I should be happy about it. This is not a competition for a burning commitment. You're engaged because you think this is important, and because you don't see the results of the alleged engagement with those who actually sit at the negotiating table, and have the opportunity to move money. So it has to result in something more than what it's done today, because it's going too slowly, and it's happening in a very unfortunate way. When something happens, there is no reason to continue to submit Document No 8 proposals on the matter, but first something has to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e486	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox Before the Storting goes to voting, the President will refer to the following: [[Footing, see page 760]] The requested alternate from Akershus County, Borghild Tenden, is proposed for election to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Terje Johansen. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Rikke Lind and Borghild Tenden
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e502	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e659	During the debate, Mr Stensaker put forward the following proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the regulations in order to facilitate the use of the railway works’ railways by operators other than NSB BA.’ We vote first on the proposal and then on the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-30.ana.ud377e688	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward the following proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party: ‘Document No. 8:74 [[1998 - 1999]] An alternative is to vote between the vote and the proposal of the Socialist Left.
