ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e87	President Kirsti Kolle Grondahl and representatives of Aud Blattmann, Anne Enger Lahnstein, Olav Gunnar Ballo, Åse Wisløff Nilsson, John Dale, Harald T. Nesvik, Jorunn Ringstad, Bent Hegna, Svein Ludvigsen, Ola Røtvei, Øystein Djupedal and Tom Thoresen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Finnmark County, Inger Lise Balandin, has taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: from the representative of Mr Gunn Karin Gjul on welfare leave from 16 November to 2 December from the Christian People's Party on sick leave for the representative of Mr May-Helen Molvær Grimstad from 16 November until further notice from the representative of Ms Helene Falch Fladmark on leave on 17 and 18 November to attend an international parliamentary conference in the French Senate in Paris These applications shall be dealt with without delay and shall be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first representative of the South-Trøndelag County, Tore Nordseth, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the representative Gunn Karin Gjul's leave from 16 November to 2 December for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Anne Lise Lunde For Oslo: Berit Kväven For South Tribute County: No Balstad
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e183	Anne Lise Lunde and Inga Balstad are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e188	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e193	I propose Per Ove Width and Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e198	Per Ove Width and Øyvind Korsberg are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Width and Øyvind Korsberg are considered unanimously elected presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e206	The representative of Gunnar Kvassheim will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e210	I would like to propose equal treatment of different types of full-year residence in relation to the tax provisions of the tax law on the tax advantage of Housing Saving for the Youth Scheme. [[BSU]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e215	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e227	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 418]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e245	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 418]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e261	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 418]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e276	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 418]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e295	Although, after the interpellation was submitted, I have been informed that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has attributed the injured woman in question and informed that the department will reconsider its previous decision to provide only a symbolic amount of NOK 10 000 as compensation for medical expenses and expenses for renting help at home in connection with the woman's persistent pain, I did not find that I would draw the interpellation. The interpellation has a principle side on which it is important to have a political clarification. If Norwegian citizens are to be expected to volunteer for public health studies, it is important that participants are ensured for damage suffered without extensive procedures. As shown by the inter-pellation text, a woman who volunteered to participate in a major health study in the Nord-Trøndelag in 1996 had complications with severe pain in her arm after a blood sampling, pain which has since led to 100 pst. disability of the woman. The Health Survey was led and managed by the State Institute for Public Health, which initially discussed the question of taking special insurance in relation to the study but fell to the point that in such a case the State would be a self-employed person or that Norwegian Patient Compensation could be a relevant compensation provider whose complications resulted in civil liability. When the woman's lawyer asked the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health for compensation for damages, the Department, in a letter to the lawyer dated 30 July 1998, stated that: ‘There is no objective basis for liability covering the event in question. The general rules on culpa liability therefore apply. Based on the information available in the case, the Ministry finds no basis for claiming that the blood sampling was performed negligently. In other words, there is no basis of liability for the award of compensation.» In addition, the Ministry states: ‘On this basis, there is no obligation to compensate the ministry in the present case. However, it is a person who has volunteered for a survey in which the result is intended to be of benefit to the entire population. The Ministry has therefore assessed whether some of the expenditure should be covered after a reasonable consideration. After weighing the opposite considerations, the Ministry finds it possible to offer compensation of NOK 10 000 equivalent to the medical expenses and expenses of the renting assistance in the home that [the woman] has suffered in the context of the pain, provided that it is deemed to be final settlement in the case.» I have to say that this was a bit of a rusty offer to the woman who, because of her damage, lost her acquiring capacity of 100 pst. I want to characterize this offer as helpless, even if it is a department. In a letter to the Ministry dated 15 December 1997, the State Health Authority stated that it has been shown that there is a likelihood of a causal link between the blood sampling and the pains of the woman in question. The Health Authority further states in the same letter that it may be difficult to find participants in such health studies if damage caused by the study is not replaced. According to the current Patient Compensation Act, I agree that the legislation on this law cannot be used as a proper compensation body in cases such as what we are discussing here. However, the Patient Compensation Act is currently under consideration in the social committee. In this respect, it might be interesting to hear what the Minister of Health had to say whether it would be appropriate to add to this law, which also covers the cost of damage caused to voluntary participation in public health studies. I personally agree with the Health Authority that even if, in cases such as this, there is no objective liability that triggers ordinary compensation, one way or another must ensure that the citizens participating in such voluntary investigations are kept safe by the State. I find it totally unreasonable and totally unacceptable that people involved in such studies should risk both life and health without making the state financially responsible for the complications. I also find it critical and unreasonable that the government of the department did not go in and offered the woman in question a reasonable compensation in this case in relation to the damage caused by 100 pst. disability. However, once the department has promised a new assessment of the case, I attach this to the fact that the facts of the case have come to the attention of the Minister of Health, and that it is now the political leadership in the department that is gradually taking action on the basis of a purely reasonable principle. And I'm happy about that. However, a sound insurance system for future health investigations and screening needs to be ensured for the future, which is gradually becoming more and more common in our society in the prevention of health work. Future voluntary health studies must not be discredited by the fact that the State discharges its responsibilities when complications arise from such studies. I would strongly urge the Minister of Health to take the initiative as soon as possible for a compensation scheme that fully covers damage and complications caused to Norwegian citizens who voluntarily participate in these types of studies. In the current case of the woman from Nord-Trøndelag, I assume that a new assessment in the department will result in a sound and acceptable settlement of claims. In addition, I would recommend to the Minister of Health that the woman be given an unreserved apology and regret by the department for the treatment she has been subjected to in this matter by the authorities. I believe that the political environment and public administration will in the long run insist on admitting errors, regrets the mistakes that have been made, and corrects them. The matter on which this interpellation is based has so far been dealt with in the ministry with the opposite of humility, namely, in my opinion with strong arrogance, which I find regrettable. It has weakened the confidence of public health authorities, but much of this can now be corrected, first by providing the woman in question with a sound financial settlement and, in the future, by finding schemes that ensure compensation without a fight on the part of the victims. This will also ensure that, in the future, the population is also confronted with different types of voluntary health studies. Finally, I would like to commend the patient representative in the Nord-Trøndelag, Kjell Vang, for the initiative he has taken in relation to the ministry in resolving this boring matter for this woman in a good way. Here we have an example of how a patient representative should act as the user’s lawyer in relation to public health authorities. I ask myself, is all of our patient agents as alert as the agent in the North Trøndelag, and are there many things of a similar nature that never come to the Big Thing for an ear? I believe, in principle, that as a wholesaler, we also have a responsibility for individuals suffering from public health abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e327	In the context of the health study in Nord-Trøndelag, a claim for compensation has been made by one of the participants in the project. The woman had pain in her arm the day after she took a blood test, and she has since suffered pain that has led to disability in her arm. She's 80 pst today. Disadvantaged. It is very unfortunate that the woman has ended up in such a situation, and I have a great understanding that this has been a difficult time for her. I would like to point out at the outset that the State of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is not legally liable for the damage in this case, which is also recognised by the woman's lawyer. It is a general rule of compensation law that a person who has acted negligently is responsible for the loss suffered. In this specific case, there is no invoked negligence in blood sampling. The practice of the courts has developed a comprehensive responsibility on an objective basis. This means that a person becomes responsible for the damage independently of guilt. Such objective liability has not been assumed in respect of damage resulting from blood sampling. Legally, the claim may be rejected for this reason. As part of the examination of the claim, the Ministry obtained opinions from the State Institute of Public Health and State Health. These opinions showed doubts as to the causal link between the blood sampling and the damage. The State Institute for Public Health doubts whether there is a causal link between the blood sampling and the pain. State health surveillance considers that there is a likelihood of causality between blood sampling and pain, as there appears to be no other likely cause. It is clear that existing Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation does not cover the damage. These rules for compensation are now being amended. The government has promoted its proposal for a new law for the Stortinget. The basis for compensation from Norwegian Patient Injury Compensation is proposed here extended and is considered to cover similar cases in the future if the law is passed. It is proposed that carelessness should be complemented by objective rules, i.e.: rules which do not require the patient to prove that someone in the healthcare system can be tainted for the injury to occur. In particular, it is mentioned in the bill that damages that have been done include: in medical trial activities, is considered to be a patient injury and thus fall within the scope of the law. Responsibilities and causality requirements must in any case be available in order to provide compensation. In my opinion, the new law will adequately address patients’ claims for compensation in the event of injury to patients, so that no specific rules are needed in future health studies. Should claims arise before the entry into force of a new law, they should be assessed in a concrete manner. The Ministry re-examined this claim on 4 October 1999. I can inform you that the Department has now made a new offer to the woman, where it is seen to calculate the compensation for men, calculate medical expenses, help expenses at home and legal assistance. The new offer involves a significant increase in relation to the ministry's original offer, and it is my hope that on this basis we will resolve this unfortunate case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e340	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer to my interpellation, and I am pleased that it is now possible to expect that the new Patient Compensation Act will cover liability in connection with health studies, so that at least one has cleaned up that relationship. I am also pleased that when the matter came to the political leadership of the department, there was at least a change in the procedure that I appreciate. The Health Minister did not say anything to my suggestion that you should also strongly complain about the incident and apologize for the previous treatment, but I hope and expect that it will be done. I have come to know the new amount offered to this woman. I will not discuss here whether the amount is large enough or not, even if I have a personal opinion on it. But what I thought I would comment on was that initially 10 000 kroner were offered to get rid of the matter – reasonably arrogant. Now you have reached an amount of NOK 168 000, and then it is natural that I ask questions about what was the basis for the NOK 10 000 initially and the NOK 168 000 now offered, when the case has been dealt with by the same case handlers in the department. When we think that this woman has become exhausted and has lost her ability to acquire for all future years, I personally will finally be allowed to say that I do not understand that you have reached an amount of only NOK 168 000, and I expect that it will receive further treatment at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e349	The representative, Alvheim, began his last speech saying that he did not want to go into a discussion of amounts from the Parliament's pulpit. I don't want that either. I don't think the matter as such belongs in a big debate. I have asked myself the question asked by the representative Alvheim and have answered it. I have also commented on the principle and legislative aspects of the matter. With regard to the question that the representative Alvheim is now finally asking, I would like to limit myself to saying that a new assessment has been carried out in the ministry on a broader basis. The basis for the offer given is that the calculation of men's compensation, the calculation of medical expenses, the calculation of expenses for home help and legal assistance, and this case is then set out in the channels where it belongs. I believe that I have explained both the status and the department's position with it, as I have been asked.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e356	Several have not asked for the word. Does the interpellant want the word at last? – It is decommissioned and therefore the interpellation has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e369	In my presentation to the Stortinget on 25 May, I gave an overview of Norwegian priorities ahead of the new round of negotiations in the World Trade Organisation, the WTO. The mandate for the negotiations shall be adopted at the WTO Ministerial Conference in Seattle in two weeks' time. For Norway, with a small and very open and extroverted economy, multilateral trade legislation is of great importance. It provides driving rules in world trade and ensures access for Norwegian goods and services to other countries under non-discriminatory conditions. It is in our interest to further develop and strengthen the WTO acquis. It is also in our interest that the WTO system is the main pillar of trade between countries. The forthcoming WTO negotiations are therefore very important for Norway. The Government has two main objectives for the forthcoming negotiations. One is to facilitate continued growth and value creation in Norwegian business, through a strong and binding regulatory framework that provides predictability in international trade. The second main objective is to further develop the trading system so that it takes better account of the situation of developing countries and of qualitative aspects of trade. These relate to the environment, food safety, health, consumer and district considerations, as well as the preservation of cultural diversity. In my previous statement, I briefed Stortinget that the Government is in favour of a comprehensive round of negotiations. This is necessary in order to achieve the two main objectives. The presentation highlighted both the extent of the Norwegian interests and the difficult balances and challenges we face. The subsequent debate in Stortinget on 17 June showed that there is a broad consensus on the main lines of the Government's preparations. The WTO Member State has made more than 200 different and very wide-ranging proposals which they believe should be included in the Seattle negotiating mandate. On the Norwegian side, we have put forward eight concrete proposals. These relate to agriculture, services, market access for industrial products including fish and fishery products, fisheries subsidies, the environment, competition and the financing of technical assistance to developing countries. I attended an informal ministerial meeting in Lausanne on 25 and 26 October, together with ministers from 24 countries and the European Commission. The Lausanne meeting and subsequent discussions do not give a clear picture of the final mandate for the forthcoming round of negotiations. We know that agriculture, services and some aspects of trade-related intellectual property rights will be included in the negotiations. These themes are called the WTO's built-in agenda. Much suggests that access to the market for industrial products, including fish and fish products, could also be included. Concrete decisions to better address developing countries’ interests and needs also appear to be included. The discussions of the harvest have been characterised by pre-post-fixing, tactical positioning and national markers. This is what we must expect at this stage of the negotiations. In part, there has been an increasing polarisation between countries. On the one hand, we have countries that want negotiations to be limited to increased market access for agricultural products, services and industrial products. These are listed by the United States and increasingly supported by the so-called Cairns group of agricultural exporting industrial and developing countries. On the other hand, the EU, Switzerland, Japan, Korea, Hong Kong and Norway, among others, are in favour of a more comprehensive round of negotiations. A number of developing countries, especially in Latin America and Asia, are in an intermediate position. It can already be stated that it will be necessary for all parties to make compromises in the formulation of the final mandate. The United States, the EU, Japan and Canada are key players in the debate on the negotiating mandate. On the Norwegian side, it is important that we act in a constructive and flexible way, so that we can be actively involved in shaping the mandate. In the following, I want to review key elements of the draft Ministerial Declaration, in the light of Norwegian views and assessments. Overall objectives for WTO work and the new round of negotiations are increased living standards, full employment, sustainable development, protection of the environment and the concerns of developing countries. On the Norwegian side, we strongly support the introduction of negotiations into such a broader context. We have seen it as important that environmental and sustainable development concerns become a fundamental principle of the mandate. In addition, environmental considerations must be included in all relevant negotiating themes. This is important in order to maintain confidence in the multilateral trading system. The need for greater transparency is also something we support on the Norwegian side. With regard to the principles and organisation of negotiations, we are in favour of a short and effective round of negotiations, i.e.: three to four years. It is important to promote solutions that can have a positive impact on trade, the environment and development. It is also important that the outcome of the negotiations be balanced and seen as a package solution for all WTO members. These principles combined with a broad round of negotiations are necessary for all countries to see that they have something to profit from the round. Norway is working towards a separate negotiating theme for trade and the environment. The aim is to clarify the relationship between international environmental agreements and WTO legislation so as to provide the necessary flexibility and predictability for the use of trade measures in environmental protection agreements. We also want guidance driving rules for voluntary eco-labelling schemes. This will be an important contribution to the production and use of environmentally friendly goods and services. Most developing countries, and some developed countries, fear that environmental considerations are being used as a shell for the introduction of green protectionism. They are therefore sceptical about starting negotiations on these issues in the WTO. As part of our national preparations, we have, like some other countries, started environmental reviews of important sectors. This will provide us with a better decision-making basis for the further design of Norwegian views. Another objective is to contribute to better integration of environmental concerns into the WTO system. We encourage several countries to carry out similar national reviews and share experience with other countries. The agricultural sector was integrated in the Uruguay Round into the international trade legislation by means of a separate agricultural agreement. Article 20 of the WTO Agreement on Agriculture authorises further negotiations in the field of agriculture. The Article refers to the long-term objective of achieving significant, gradual reductions in support and protection measures. It also suggests that further negotiations should take into account, inter alia: experience gained with the implementation of the existing agreement and so-called non-commercial aspects. In the case of non-commercial aspects, special emphasis has been placed on elucidating the multifunctional or versatile nature of agriculture on the Norwegian side. Agriculture is a supplier of collective goods such as district housing, food preparedness and living cultural landscapes. This is a continuation of the Brundtland government’s priorities in the previous round of negotiations. During the so-called Midway Review in 1989, Norway underlined its view in a separate explanation of vote. Here we put particular emphasis on the vital importance of non-commercial relations for Norway. The government’s objective is to ensure national scope for action in the formulation of agricultural policy, with the instruments deemed necessary for continued active agricultural production throughout the country. The debate following my previous statement showed that we have the Storting's support for this main line. As Norway, Japan, Korea, Switzerland and the EU place great emphasis on the role of agriculture in producing food. We have worked together with the Ministerial Declaration and promoted joint proposals. The Cairns Group is making very extensive demands on agricultural negotiations. This group includes Australia, Canada, Argentina and South Africa, which has a total of 15 industrial and developing countries. A number of other developing countries and the United States support the Cairns countries. They want trade in agricultural products to be regulated in the same way as trade in industrial products. However, this goes far beyond the mandate for further negotiations in the field of agriculture, as provided for in Article 20. Of course, we continue to maintain close contact with like-minded countries with a view to achieving a negotiating mandate that balances the interests of the various WTO members in the agricultural sector. The Government will enter into negotiations in line with the obligations laid down in Article 20. Negotiations must take account of the many tasks of agriculture. As with other countries with a high level of support, we will undoubtedly face very difficult negotiations in terms of both customs protection and internal and export subsidies. The parties must be expected to go beyond the existing obligations in the negotiations. The WTO Agreement also presupposes the launch of new negotiations on the liberalisation of trade in services at the end of the year. The service sector is of major importance to the Norwegian economy and accounts for around a quarter of Norwegian exports. We have clear interests in reducing barriers to trade in a number of service sectors, in particular shipping services and related offshore services, telecommunications and IT services, apart from environmental services. Discussions of the mandate for the service negotiations have so far not revealed any significant problems. It is generally agreed that all commercial service sectors should be included in the negotiations. Negotiations on trade-related intellectual property rights shall begin at the end of the year. This applies, inter alia, to: increased protection for so-called geographical sales denominations, such as: the name cognac. This is the result of the TRIPS Agreement, which also provides for a review of the parties’ ability to exempt certain types of biotechnological inventions from patenting. It is also discussed whether further areas should be included in TRIPS negotiations. We stress that the mandate for TRIPS negotiations should not restrict existing access to exemptions from the patenting of animals and plants and their manufacturing methods. Furthermore, we want to work towards better consistency between the TRIPS Agreement and the objectives of the Convention on Biological Diversity. We also focus on maintaining access to flexible plant variety protection. Our approach to these issues is in line with the main vision of developing countries. Customs negotiations on industrial products are a traditional theme of GATT/WTO negotiations. There seems to be little disagreement that this issue will also be included in the new round of negotiations. It is proposed that all non-agricultural products be included in the negotiations. This is in line with Norwegian industrial interests and is very important for our competitive industry, which provides a basis for employment and housing across the country. We have offensive interests in sectors such as fish and fish products, the workshop industry, the technology companies and the tech industry. These considerations seem so far to be taken into account. In addition to customs negotiations, it will also be important for Norwegian industry to take a closer look at non-tariff barriers to trade in goods. Norway is today the world’s largest exporter of seafood. The industry has a high development potential and will continue to be very important in the years to come in order to ensure employment and coastal settlement. Several countries that are key markets for Norwegian fish exporters have clear defensive interests in the issue of increased market access. This still requires active efforts by the Norwegian side to achieve significant improvements in access to the market for fish and fishery products. In the case of electronic commerce, the draft declaration provides for the continuation of the moratorium on the introduction of customs duties on electronic transmissions. On the Norwegian side, we support an extension of the moratorium. We also want confirmation that electronic commerce is subject to WTO rules on non-discrimination. As you know, the government is committed to strengthening WTO legislation to provide transparency in public acquisitions. Norwegian enterprises, such as: the provision of consultancy and hydropower development services could benefit from greater transparency, even if this would not in itself increase market access. The draft multilateral agreement exists and it is possible that such an agreement will be clarified already in Seattle. A number of developing countries have so far not benefited from such an agreement, which they fear can limit their freedom of action. The draft Ministerial Declaration also remains open to negotiations to simplify administrative procedures for imports and exports. This will not least be important for Norwegian export companies. Simplification of trade procedures appears to be given increasing international weight, in particular in the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises. Norway, the EU, Canada, Japan and the countries associated with the Central European Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA), want the forthcoming negotiations to include the development of a multilateral agreement in the field of competition. This could ensure that the benefits resulting from the reduction of barriers to trade in GATT/WTO are not neutralised by the anti-competitive behaviour of different undertakings. Many developing countries have not introduced national competition law. These countries and the United States have expressed scepticism to launch negotiations on this issue in the WTO. We are also in favour of the new round of negotiations including a review of the anti-dumping legislation. This is of importance for Norwegian industrial interests, not least for the fishing industry, which is the Norwegian sector most affected in recent years. The criteria for the use of the anti-dumping weapon open to far too much discretion, which means arbitraryness. Developing countries also want negotiations on anti-dumping legislation to be opened. However, the United States is strongly opposed. In Question Time on 27 October this year, I pointed out that it is still unclear whether investments will be included in the negotiations. The United States and more developing countries are skeptical. The EU, Switzerland, Japan and Korea as well as several Asian and Latin American countries are drivers. The government agrees that investments can be included as a topic in the negotiations. In this case, it is essential for the Government to take due account of the environment and health, cultural interests, labour standards, national control of natural resources and the needs of developing countries. Any framework is envisaged to be established on the basis of the WTO's basic principles of non-discrimination, transparency and state-to-state dispute resolution. Today’s access to investment in the respective countries will be taken into account. At the same time, the framework will be limited to direct investment. Let me stress that even if investments were to be included in the negotiations, this is not a new MAI agreement. What I have just said shows that, on the contrary, emphasis is placed on a different and less wide-ranging approach to the development of multilateral investment rules than was foreseen in the MAI negotiations. Norway is one of the countries that have recently sought to promote dialogue in the WTO on basic labour standards. The experiment has been met with great resistance, especially from developing countries. They believe that the ILO is the right body to deal with such issues. Several industrialised countries are also sceptical about this being discussed in the WTO. On the Norwegian side, we focus on maintaining close contact with the social partners and with other like-minded countries, in particular the United States and EU countries. The Declaration of the WTO Ministerial Conference in Singapore in 1996 states that WTO members undertake to respect basic labour standards. I hope this time we're going to get further. One possibility is that trade and work are discussed in a separate WTO working group, as proposed by the United States. An alternative EU proposal is that trade, globalisation and labour issues should be discussed in a joint forum between the ILO and the WTO. On the Norwegian side, we would prefer a separate working group, but if this proves impossible, we will be able to join the EU's proposals. Developing countries are not a homogeneous group. Nevertheless, developing countries are generally most concerned with ensuring the implementation of already concluded WTO agreements. They are sceptical of several of the proposals for new negotiating themes. Developing countries are almost unisoningly behind the demand for improved access to industrialised country markets. This applies in particular to agriculture, clothing and textiles. Developing countries require a reduction in customs duties. This applies in particular to products with high rates of duty and rates which increase by the level of processing. They claim that such a reduction will contribute to the diversification of their economy and economic growth. It is the government's view that, on the Norwegian side, in the forthcoming market access negotiations, we will have to make certain reductions in customs duties linked to the WTO. This applies to industrial products such as: clothing and textiles. Pursuant to Article 20 of the WTO Agreement on Agriculture, this also applies to agricultural products. When we consider, on the Norwegian side, the products on which we are going to reduce customs duties, we will focus on selecting export products that are of importance to developing countries. At the same time, we will maintain a high level of border protection for products that are vital for important objectives of Norwegian agricultural policy. The WTO Director-General has promoted an additional proposal on market access. The proposal is to impose zero duty on all products from the poorest countries – MUL. This is supported by the MUL countries themselves. G-77, the central grouping of developing countries in the UN context, is also in favour of free market access for exports from the poorest countries. The EU has proposed that all developed countries undertake to grant duty-free market access for ‘as well as all products’ from the MUL, but does not propose to bind customs duties. The Norwegian tariff preference scheme provides zero duty for imports from the poorest countries with the exception of cereals, flour and forage. From the Norwegian side, we can therefore join the zero-duty proposals of the European Union as they stand. Internationally, this could imply a further development of current preferential arrangements, which could give the poorest developing countries somewhat better market access to important markets. With regard to that proposal from the Director-General, we are willing on the Norwegian side to assess this. One premise is to link to security mechanisms sufficient to achieve significant Norwegian agricultural policy objectives. Another premise is that there is a broad consensus on the proposal from developed countries, including those countries with which Norway traditionally cooperates on these issues. Developing countries are also committed to ensuring that they maintain flexibility in designing their national policies. Furthermore, it is noted that technical barriers to trade need to be reduced and that the labelling requirements of the importing countries and different quality rules need to be made easier to comply with. It is important to ensure that the expected economic growth resulting from the better integration of developing countries in world trade is complemented by trade-related and other assistance. This applies, inter alia, to: measures to build up the necessary management and implementation of environmental protection legislation to ensure that growth is within the framework of sustainable development. On the Norwegian side, we have taken the initiative to give priority to technical assistance work in the WTO. We have proposed that aid activities should be financed from the regular budget of the WTO. We also support the plans to set up an independent legal centre to assist the poorest developing countries in dealing with trade disputes in the WTO. We hope that the necessary funding for this will soon be in place. A dedicated working group on biotechnology has been proposed in the WTO. The question has to be considered in the context of many considering the problem of genetically modified organisms – so-called GMOs – as one of the largest potential conflict areas in the WTO. The Convention on Biological Diversity is already negotiating to regulate trade in such products. On the Norwegian side, we have a strong desire that these negotiations lead to a positive outcome. We are concerned that the creation of a working group may make this difficult. We have therefore called for these issues not to be addressed within the framework of the WTO. It is suggested that separate decisions – so-called immediate decisions – should also be taken in several areas in Seattle. This applies, inter alia, to: possible measures in favour of the poorest countries, such as extended transitional periods and the fastest possible accession processes. A possible extension of product coverage under the agreement on trade in IT products is another form of immediate decision. The same applies to any decision adjusting the WTO dispute resolution agreement. Let me also mention a possible decision on increased transparency in the WTO system. In view of the wide range of issues and the different interests of the Member States, ministers cannot be expected to go to Seattle with a pre-negotiated text in their luggage. Difficult outstanding issues are likely to require final political clarification during the conference itself. Norway has a fundamental interest in a well-developed framework and an international legal order for world trade. We are working for multilateral framework conditions that facilitate continued growth and value creation in Norwegian business. The trading system must also take better account of the situation of developing countries and of qualitative aspects of trade. These include environmental, food safety, health, consumer and district considerations and cultural diversity. As in the previous round, agricultural negotiations seem to be a key area this time. There is considerable attention to these issues in the request to the Ministerial Conference. Our main objective, however, is to work actively for a comprehensive round of negotiations that takes care of the entire spectrum of Norwegian interests, both offensive and defensive. A lot is at stake. We face difficult balances and challenges. Most countries are in the same situation as Norway. If we do not reach agreement, we risk undermining the multilateral trading system. Everybody's gonna lose it. Therefore, all parties must be willing to demonstrate flexibility in Seattle.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e478	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister's statement be debated at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e491	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Steinar Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e502	Document No The 8th proposal by the mayors Karin Andersen and Signe Eyes is about changes in the population's security, so that financial compensation for elected representatives in political positions in municipalities and county councils is exempted from the provision for curtailment of the pension. Today’s rules are designed to ensure that unemployed persons can earn up to 1 G without any curtailment only one year after the adoption of the social security decision. The proposers believe that political elected representatives are in a special position. They are chosen for four years at a time and are legally obliged to perform their duties. Disability is not due to maturity. Persons who are selected in the year in which they are granted or who change their social security will be charged with meeting compensation as if it were a normal paid job, and will receive a curtailment of their social security. In the proposal, one indicates that this would be particularly unfortunate for people with low pensions. The proposers believe that this is unreasonable because financial compensation goes unabated to other elected representatives independently of their personal economy, so that some elected representatives get financial support for such positions, while others reduce their revenues. Today's rules can deter people who want to be elected. From this point of view, one suggests that the limitation that a person cannot have income in the first year after he becomes ill will have to be abolished for this group. Furthermore, the proposers believe that the Government should also assess the impact of the one-year rule and whether it should lapse for all groups. The next year's budget proposes to introduce some more modest rules on freedom of movement for workers with political responsibilities and other positions of trust in non-governmental organisations up to 1 G. The reason is that this type of activity is usually carried out during leisure time. The Committee highlights the importance of a broad commitment and the use of the competences of the individual. The majority of the Social Committee, all parties other than the Progress Party, points out that today’s rules may be problematic for those taking on political or voluntary trust. The remuneration is mainly intended to cover additional costs associated with the work. The members of the Progress Party will not accept the fact that there is a difference between work and work as a politically active activity and that income from political activities will not be treated differently from income from other work. On this basis, these members have indicated that they will vote against paragraph 1 of the proposal. The Workers’ Party and the member of the Socialist Left Saxi point out that social assistance providers are also curtailed in their benefits, and that there are different practices in municipalities in terms of the additional revenues used for the delineation of social assistance calculations. These members will come back to these issues during the process of the Equalisation Communication. The members of the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party point out that in the same message, social assistance will be reviewed with a view to introducing guidance standards for social welfare, creating greater equality and a fairer system. When the Government of the State Budget for the year 2000 proposes to ease the rules of freedom of workers, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, I propose that the Committee's recommendation be annexed to the minutes. With regard to paragraph 2 of the proposal, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Progress Party consider that it would be of interest to investigate the non-compliance with the one-year rule for all groups affected by it. The Right Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party point out that by giving a general amount of 1 G, more will fill the conditions for disability pension, and all those with a residual income will have a higher disability rate. The change will result in significant additional costs for public security. In this context, these members will vote against the Committee's recommendation II. Finally, I would like to mention that a large majority want the possibility of combining disability pension with income from work to be improved. It will prevent the partial failure to become passive. In addition, I believe that the social network can be better maintained by such an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e537	Gradually, we have come to recognise the need for flexibility and that the labour market needs to adapt to and meet the needs of people. This is the way to understand the efforts made to facilitate greater participation in the labour market. It was also the basis for a greater opportunity for combining disability benefit and labour income in the context of the welfare notification. However, the combination of work and social security by being able to earn up to 1 G before shortening the social security system also introduced a kind of withdrawal period, which meant that a person could not have social security and labour income up to 1 G without being cut before one year after the grant of the social security. This provision was introduced with an argument on uncertainty as to how the new scheme would turn out and whether this would lead to a greater motivation for seeking disability benefit. We now have experience with the scheme, and we consider that it is already the basis for reconsidering this principle, how it works for the individual and whether it turns out in an unfortunate way for different groups. We therefore believe, unlike the government parties and the right, that there is reason to get an assessment of this. It is on this basis the Working Party, together with SV, in Document No. The 8 proposal has proposed such an evaluation. But in one area, we can already see that the system, as it is practised, turns out unlucky, and I would believe in such a way that it does not correspond to the intention underlying it when it was adopted. It is in those cases where acts of mismanagement by elected representatives are curtailed as a result of compensation for those who are given their duties. In this respect, it is important to bear in mind that this work is done on a leisure basis and that the compensation provided, inter alia: is intended as compensation for expenses and expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. It is therefore necessary to consider something different from traditional labour income. Both those with labour income and those with disability benefit will have expenses related to their duties. It would therefore be unreasonable if this compensation were to be cut for the benefit of the disabled. From a democratic point of view, it would be regrettable if the disgruntled did not see the advice to participate in political work. We therefore support the proposal of Signe Øye and Karin Andersen and are pleased that the state budget for next year has already taken steps to correct this bias. Otherwise we join the setting as it is available.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e552	I could be tempted, before I say anything more, to ask a question to the representative Britt Hildeng: When do they perform their political duties on a daily basis? What time of day do they have untimely leisure? The argument shows that you're really on a swinging basis here. Document No. Eight proposals raise two fundamental questions. Firstly, are non-pensioners who profess public office to have special treatment in relation to other unemployed persons with regard to curtailment of pensions when receiving various forms of income and allowances? The second question is to investigate, if necessary removed, the one-year rule, i.e. that you cannot receive any remuneration or income in the first year after you have had a disability without having a curtailed pension. In the present position, the Progress Party alone is opposed to the special treatment of politicians, as proposed by the majority of the Committee. The fact that the majority have also taken office in different organisations does not change the principle of this matter. The Progress Party sees it as important that both retired and disabled people take part in political life by taking on positions of trust and elected representatives. The Progress Party believes that also pensioners and disqualified persons who can participate in active political life should do so, and the party also views participation in this way as a privilege for disabled persons and pensioners. On the other hand, disabled persons or retired persons shall not be treated differently from other unemployed persons in terms of curtailment of pensions against compensation received from municipal and other public authorities. It is incorrect, as the majority claims, that the remuneration is payment for real costs. Transport always comes in addition, and the meeting allowance also comes as a separate remuneration – so you have no expenses for it. I believe that it weakens the confidence of politicians and the political environment when, in this way, one has to treat the underprivileged and retired people because they are active in politics, while other underprivileged people who are able to obtain a grant should not receive the same treatment. With regard to Decision II of the resolution, the Progress Party is in favour of it, as we believe that the annual rule of revenue should be removed, but like the other parties in the Social Committee, we believe it is right that we should have an investigation on this issue before taking a stand to remove the one-year rule. So far I haven't registered that II has been recorded, and that's why I'm doing it now on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e573	The President would point out that I and II are the setting on the matter and therefore do not need to be addressed. There are only minority proposals that the representatives have to deal with explicitly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e576	As stated in the referral, and for which the rapporteur has given a thorough explanation, today’s rules in the public sector create problems for those with political responsibilities who receive disability pension during the parliamentary term, or are elected during the first year after they have received disability pension. Elections are elected for four years, and if you are disqualified during the period, as the proposers also point out, one by law has a duty to discharge its duties, because being unfit in itself is not a cause of decay. Personally, I know more examples where people for economic reasons have not had the opportunity to take on political duties because they would change their social security by being drawn into meeting compensation. Of course, it is unfair to those in paid employment who are not paid. The meeting allowance shall include, inter alia: to cover the costs of the work and to prevent anyone from losing financially to participation in political work. As it is now, it is those who are in paid work, who are given an appreciation for their political commitment, while those who are disqualified are reduced their income. It is quite unreasonable, because it is important for everyone, in any case, to have the same opportunity to participate and contribute to social development through political work. Political positions cannot, in the view of the Right, be considered as any part-time job a taker to earn a little extra. It is about making an effort for society, about being able to uphold its democratic rights in line with others. It is important for democracy that everyone has equal opportunity to participate in community-building work. The experience and knowledge of the disadvantaged will be a useful contribution to policy-making at all levels of society. The same applies to those taking up the duties of non-governmental organisations. Here, too, it is about spending their leisure time in employment and in organisations that contribute most to building and developing society. For this reason, the Right believes that jobs in non-governmental organisations need to be equated with political ones. As has been pointed out by many, the Government of the State Budget for 2000 has proposed to ease the level of income for disabled persons with political or other positions of trust in non-governmental organisations as of 1 January 2000. This supports the Right and assumes that the Government implements the necessary regulatory changes within the law that is in place. With regard to the second proposal, that the Government be asked to assess the consequences of the one-year rule for all groups, it will result in the introduction of a general free amount on a basic amount for all applicants for disability pension. When assessing whether a person fulfils the conditions for disability pension, there is a requirement that income is reduced by at least 50 pst. By giving a free amount of 1 G, several will fill the conditions for disability pension, and all those with a residual income will have a higher disability rate. Such a change will result in significant additional costs for public welfare – estimated at 750 million by the Rikstrygdeverket. kr. In addition, the additional expenditure comes from the fact that more than one person is entitled to a disability pension under today’s rules. We are not prepared to go in for such a great reform now. In addition, it will also result in an incorrect determination of disability and residual income. Like the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, the Right cannot therefore support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e593	In the treatment of the welfare notification, the amount of free income that pensioners can receive was raised from 1⁄2 G to 1 G, but that rule was designed so that disability pensioners can earn up to 1 G without any curtailment only after one year after the adoption of social security decisions. In Document No: 8:50 a.m. for 1998-99, by Karin Andersen and Signe Øye. that disability is not the cause of disability for political elected representatives and that persons who are elected to such positions in the year in which they are granted or have their social security changed are taken for consideration as if it were usually paid for work, thereby shortening their social security. It is stated in Document No. 8:50 that in the case of persons with low pensions, the reduction in social security benefits due to remuneration for political responsibilities could have a negative impact on the personal economy, and that is why this unfairness is addressed and it is desired that there should be no difference in remuneration in respect of such responsibilities. This is also agreed by a majority of the Committee, including the Centre Party. We point out that today's rules are problematic for those people with political responsibilities who receive disability pension during the parliamentary term, or are elected during the first year after they have received disability pension. The same majority in the Committee also considers that the same applies to persons taking on the place of trust in non-governmental organisations. We in the majority will point out that both voluntary work and political work are often carried out on a leisure basis, that this is a remuneration to be added to normal work, and that in the context of, among other things, it is. Municipalities are normally considered to be compensation for the costs incurred by an agent in connection with his/her duties. We believe that it is important that the broad spectrum of the population participate in active political activities and also in voluntary organisational work. In order to prevent some unemployees from taking up political or trusted positions in non-governmental organisations for economic reasons, we will support this proposal. The Government has also proposed in the government budget for the coming years to reduce the level of freedom of movement and the rules of freedom of movement for workers with political or other trusts in non-governmental organisations from 1 January of this year. It's a change that doesn't require any change in the law. I then expect the Government to make the necessary changes to the rules so that this will be applied from 1 January, and the fourth paragraph of Section 12-12 of the People's Security Act will be amended according to what is the Government's intention. It has also been highlighted in the treatment of this case that people who receive social assistance for shorter or longer periods come in the same situation as the insured. In this context, the Centre Party, together with, among other things, shows: The Christian People's Party, that in the message of expedition, one will address this with social welfare, and that in the context of it one will look at this with a view to getting more fairer and guidance rules for such social welfare. We see it as desirable that as much as possible be able to combine disability pension with income from work, and we also see it desirable that as much as possible from a wide range of the population can participate in political activities and in voluntary organisations. We hope that this will help to stimulate such activities among the disadvantaged, in line with those in society who have no disability, and therefore recommend that the matter be annexed to the protocol, as the committee's recommendation for a decision is based on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e612	I am pleased with the treatment given to this matter, because it is important that the legislation on meeting allowances is so that everyone can use their democratic rights in an equal way. That is what this issue is essentially about, how to make democracy equally accessible to all. It is a prerequisite that it should be possible to act on equal terms, and that it should not be such that anyone can actually not afford to sit on municipal boards or county councils, as it is today. It's unacceptable. With as low income as many insured persons have today, and when they are not allowed to keep the meeting allowance, it is a reality that many cannot sit in municipal government or county council. There are not so many now, but hopefully there can be more people who are insured or who are receiving social assistance, who are also involved in the policy. I think that's necessary because there's a competence that I think is missing. The power situation elsewhere in society is very much in favour of those who have a lot of money or are in good health and are otherwise free to participate in working and social life. Ensuring that people with low incomes have opportunities to participate in politics is therefore an important issue for society. But it's not free to pursue politics. You have to be at party meetings, you have to use the phone, you have to be out there with people, maybe be more socially active than you are if you're not good enough and you're also a politician. Of course you can, for example. ask the party team to cover such expenses, but it is fundamentally embarrassing to be poor, it is bad and difficult to have to ask for money. You can go all the way back to Håvål and read about how it feels like you can't afford to support yourself. But it's competent to be poor. It is a competence that we need more in politics, an experience that both politicians and others in leadership positions should have. Because it's the people who've been like this, who are going to deal with the system we politicians create. So I have noticed that the Progress Party does not see the difference between political work and other work. It may be a recognition that someone is becoming a ‘bread politician’ and that that is what it is about. I think that most people who go into municipal government and county do so on the basis of a social exposure and on the assumption that they have something to contribute. I see – like the representative Sonja Sjøli – as taking a political position and receiving compensation for it as something quite different from taking a part-time job on the cooperative team or whatever it might be. The basis for entering into such activities is significantly different. This is not, as the Progress Party today says, a special treatment for politicians, but it is a negative treatment for the disadvantaged politicians in whom we intend to rectify with this proposal. I actually thought that the Progress Party too would be in the right direction. I can agree with those who say that once you have included non-governmental organisations here, in a way, it makes the principles a little less clear, because being a political populace entails duties that cannot be compared to those of non-governmental organisations. But as a matter of society, by saying that civil society and the voluntary organizations are important, and that it may be especially important to engage in it, I agree with the political basis for including them as well. However, in principle, there is an important distinction between political activity and work in non-governmental organisations and other work, precisely because, when you have a regular job or are a member of a voluntary organisation, you are not obliged to carry out your duties for a four-year period. Nor does it have exactly the same democratic implications as participating in political activity. It is, after all, the governance system that Norway has, and in which it is important that people from all walks of life participate. The Committee has also stressed that social assistance should also be provided for. I see that the Workers' Party and SV have gone a little further than the majority do, but the majority are also willing to look at these questions in connection with the Equalisation Notice. I think it's important. For short periods of time, the social assistance code may be the thread in which some people have to spend their everyday life and their economy. So as it is today, you can be exposed to having to realize all the values you have in order to receive social assistance, and you have to be able to receive a meeting allowance in such a case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e625	It is with interest that I have listened to the debate today and to the broad consensus on this matter. What seems to be adopted here today will mean a victory for the insured and the end of discrimination against those who are dissatisfied while they have taken on political responsibilities, because that was precisely the concern of, among other things, the As a key reason for raising the level of free income from 1⁄2 G to 1 G, we addressed the welfare message in 1995. I do not think it was intended that the scheme should affect certain groups in the way it has done. I do not ignore the fact that the legislation was aimed at the few who could have fat governing fees at the top of the disability. But it is those who have political responsibilities and low levels of dissatisfaction, this is a great framework, and it is these groups who experience this as very unfair. Some have probably also had to withdraw from political positions because the economy is becoming more difficult, because you have costs that you cannot cover in political terms. It could be car use, phones, babysitting, etc. Remuneration of trustees should, of course, just cover these additional costs incurred by individuals in order to carry out their duties in the best possible way. In that case, it is wrong for this group to be curtailed in retirement equivalent to the amount that he is entitled to in remuneration. It is now two years since I first raised this matter with the current Minister of Social Affairs. At that time, she was not very willing to do anything about this injustice that affects destitute politicians. Then there were many excuses that it was difficult to change this. But after many enquiries and more newspaper headlines and after this Document No. The 8 proposal was promoted, it now appears that the Minister of Social Affairs is also willing to do something as this is included in the budget for next year. I'm glad, because we can't have rules that penalise some groups financially because they're politicians, while others receive compensation for political work without any form of curtailment. Being elected is not a job. It is a mission of trust that the people have imposed on the individual. Everyone elected by the law has a duty to perform his duties. Inability itself is not due to maturity. Therefore, some would have to perform their duties free of charge for an entire year if nothing was done. I also support the fact that trust in non-governmental organisations is treated in the same way as political ones. When the Storting also asks the Government to investigate the consequences of the one-year rule for all groups affected by it, it is very good. It will be a more demanding matter of which it is difficult to see all the consequences of. Therefore, it is correct that the government first has the opportunity to investigate the matter before the Stortinget takes a decision. But if it's the case that someone who's unemployed or on reintroduction, to mention two other groups, is put in social security for a whole day if he's in a political meeting that's usually paid, I see every reason to discuss this matter better. We can't have a society where someone has to resign to get the right to a day's allowance or be in the process of being reinstated for a period of time. Social clients should also be investigated. That's good, because here's the big difference in municipalities, the differences that I don't think are living with. The Equalizer message is in Stortinget. It's going to be a big challenge. There's a lot of things to think about. That's why it's okay that some small issues like this, which may not hit the big groups, but which still hit the individual strongly and are also so unfair, are cleared up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e643	The representatives of Storting Karin Andersen and Signe Øye have in Document No. 8:50 for 1998-99 two proposals. I would like to comment briefly on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox As is known in the State budget for 2000, the government has proposed to derogate from the one-year rule on income from political and other trusts in voluntary organisations. The amendment shall apply from 1 January 2000. With a provision of the Code of Public Security Law, the Ministry will give a rule that one should disregard the justification up to 1 G for such trust when assessing whether the conditions for invalidity pension have been met and whether to change the default rate. A people's election that gets disapproved during the election period is reduced according to the current rules in relation to meeting fees. It is right, as the representative Eye says here, that she has raised this question several times. Karin Andersen has also raised the question in Stortinget's Question Time. After a closer assessment that I had promised I would carry out, I have found that today's system can be unreal, because economic justification goes unabated to other elected representatives regardless of their personal finances. I am satisfied that there are now multiples for the change proposed in the 2000 budget, which also applies to people taking on paid trust in voluntary organisations. I believe that proof of such responsibilities should be treated in the same way as political responsibilities on the basis of a wish as broad participation as possible in political activities and in voluntary organisations. I'm happy to have broad support for that. Such work is still in the hands of many. Remuneration often comes in addition to income from other work. It is important to prevent some disability pensioners from taking on such work for economic reasons. Rather, I want to encourage more people in this group to use their good periods for involvement in political work and in voluntary organisations. I have noticed that the members of the Labour Party Committee and the Socialist Left Party feel that it is unthinkable that people who need social assistance for a shorter or longer period of time are being cut off in their social benefits when they receive evidence of popular work, and they also point to different practices in the municipalities. The reason why social assistance is curtailed against such meeting allowances is that social assistance should be a subsidiary benefit for the individual. This means that a person should first use all the right to employ himself, work, social security, etc. Social assistance is supposed to be a lower security network. The government takes seriously that there are variations in the level of social benefits and that people actually receive in economic social assistance from municipalities to municipalities, and, therefore, in the Equalisation Communication, it has warned of the introduction of guiding standards for measuring economic social assistance. In the case of proposal No: 2 of Document No 8:50, I refer to a letter of 23 September 1999 to the Social Committee. There I have given an explanation of what problems may be associated with lifting the one-year rule for all disability pensioners. The government is busy making it easier to combine social security with work and to get back to work after a period of social security. We will outline different solutions for more flexible ways to combine work and social security. I have seen an example of the fact that the level of income we have today, combined with a one-year waiting period, can give a threshold effect that makes it less profitable to increase labour input and reduce disability. On the other hand, a suspension of the waiting time rule may lead to a higher degree of inadequacy than is necessary if it is to be applied shortly after the level of inadequacy has been established. When it comes to disability pensions, the government has reduced a selection to look at the legislation and the changes to the rules that have been introduced in recent years, and I have asked the Sandman Selection to evaluate the rules of freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e662	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e665	It is all right that the majority in the vote sincerely believes that politicians should be treated specifically in this context, but at least arguments that are sustainable must be used. I refer you to the representative Signe Eye, who from this pulpit claimed that the disqualified are 'obligated' to take on political responsibilities. I think this is a crazy statement. If you are dissatisfactioned and elected to the local government or where it may be, you have the opportunity to apply for an exemption because you are dissatisfactioned. I'd like the Social Minister to confirm what I'm saying now, so that this statement doesn't stand if it's crazy, and I think the statement from Signe Eye was crazy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e672	The President has some doubts as to whether this was a line other than the debate, addressed to the Council of State, but will allow the Council of State to respond.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e675	I also perceive that this is a line more to the representative Signe Eye than to me. The Minister of Local Affairs is in the Chamber and could have been drawn in when it comes to election laws, etc., but let me, on behalf of all of us, answer what the representative John I. Alvheim here asks questions about. There are various reasons why a single representative who is elected for a term of office is required to apply for an exemption from his term of office. Of course, this can also happen to a person who is untrained during the period and is not able to perform his or her duties. What is the Signe Eye's point of view and also my point is that here there should be the possibility of exercising this work in good periods without being drawn for the evidence that such a position entails, and without having this drawn into the assessment of the disability in the period. Now one should bear in mind that when there are questions about disability, it in itself means too many that they have already fallen in income. So there's a desire to keep evidence for this kind of work, except for what's the level of income and the degree of disability.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e684	There is just the possibility of exercising an office and not being allowed to resign for economic reasons, which is why the proposal has been tabled. I need to ask the Minister something about the following with regard to those who are receiving social assistance: It is true that this legislation is now designed to be a highly needs-tested system, so that all other income opportunities are exhausted. But the fundamental arguments – that is, those that are based on democracy and the possibility of participation – are no different for this group than for those who are disqualified. It is also, in principle, very unclear when the differences are large around the country and the government, for example. Now – which I also agree with – is that cash support should not be curtailed against social assistance. Then we are left with the fundamental reasons why the proposal was promoted, namely that the pension should not be curtailed in such a way that people are deprived of their ability to uphold their democratic rights as elected representatives. I wish the Council of State could go a little bit closer to why you don't see that this is a parallel in terms of those who get social assistance, and those who get disability benefit. I don't think this would lead to the big financial statements, I don't think there are many who are in such a situation, but I think that the policy had earned some people with such an experience. I ask the Council of State to say something about what are the principal reasons why, for example. cash support shall not be curtailable but may be curtailed in municipal capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e691	The starting point for social assistance is that all other sources of income should be exploited. There is currently a very large difference in practice between the municipality and the municipality. I understand that this is also one of the reasons why the Workers' Party and SV write as they do in the setting today. For me, it is now very important to say that there is more equal treatment between municipalities than it is today, that one gets more common criteria, and that there is also a greater similarity with regard to the level of social benefits. So that's what we've suggested in the anti-aliasing message. At our suggestion, it will still be room for local discretion. Local discretion can benefit social welfare recipients today. That will also, in our opinion, be the reason, as we have designed the changes in the dithering message. When it comes to cash support, we chose to make it the same for everyone, regardless of which municipality it owes. I don't see any reason why we're withdrawing additional income at this point in time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e702	This is more a line to the representative Alvheim than to the social minister. It amazes me when the representative Alvheim says that it is only to seek leave from a trustee. –
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e709	The President would point out that the line should go to the person holding the last post, and that there should not be a line to the line. The representative has the right to a reply to the Council of State, and it can be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e712	I have here a clip from Moss Dagblad from December 10, 1997, where it says: ‘I have proposed to apply for a one-year exemption from political duties for no additional pension income. But it's not that simple. Tax legislation is involved here.’ It is quite clear that what was claimed by me from the pulpit in the past is correct. When I first want a reply to the Minister for Social Affairs, I want to pursue this with social assistance. Clearly, it seems very unreasonable that those who are receiving social assistance should also leave their trust behind. I sincerely hope that this will be followed up in connection with the dithering message.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e724	When it comes to the question of exemption from employment, there are some reasons that are more obvious than others. Therefore, it is also the case that the local local government assesses the individual application. Some people may therefore feel that they have received their application, others do not. So to the question of social assistance and the fundamental assessment that Karin Andersen called for, and that Signe Eye now follows up. The big question in the Equalization Communication when it comes to social assistance is whether we can come up with and create a multiplicity of state-led guidance standards that will put certain criteria at the bottom, but that will also take into account the municipal discretion that there is to be room for. I understand that there is a different and better climate for it now than it was when the welfare message was handled. That's what I thought was exciting. Then there will also be the possibility to apply such a criterion, evaluate it more closely, and see whether social assistance in connection with engagement can also be provided either in political work or in voluntary organisations. I would like to contribute to a closer assessment of it, but I think we should first look at what we can agree on when it applies to level and guide standards otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e732	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e737	A disabled person can, of course, apply for exemption from a political position if disability prevents such work from being carried out. But that's also a way of looking at it. I believe that the matter is completely turned on the head, both from the Advancement Party and partly from the Council of State, if it were to be a point that someone who has fallen short, at any price should seek exemption from a political duty. And then even to the Stortinget you have to arrange for such an exemption to be sought! John Alvheim’s argument is that now the poor people are not allowed to deal with politics – as if one were to think like that in the case of both old-age pensioners, social clients and disabled people! What kind of society is the Advance Party want? It was to be lacking, then, whether or not to facilitate political work. What kind of thinking is this? So to other groups: it's clear that millionaires, perhaps even billionaires, don't get any sort of curtailment when they get into a political position, while in the case of a social client, who has to turn the last score, then you have to suddenly be concerned that that money has to be withheld, you have to get a curtailment. What kind of thinking is this? I have to say, especially in relation to the Progress Party, that it is quite shocking when you go out in the election campaign and appeal to the weak groups in society, to the old-age pensioners, to the destitutes and eventually to the lonely dependants, that you present it as if this is a burden you want to get rid of. It was just to be lacking if you were not to get an impact on the organization here, even for those who did not. It's enriching that they get into politics, because then you get the whole community represented, and then you get a better basis for taking the political decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e748	I don't know what the representative Ballo means when he says that I want to arrange for the most possible exemption. My intention is the opposite. Let me say that the letter of the law should also be mentioned here, also saying that according to the municipal law § 15 there is no automatic in the case of exemption from disability benefits. The individual disembarkation must apply for an exemption, and it is the local council that decides on the possible exemption in each case. Otherwise, I have chosen the Committee's comments – both from the Labour Party and the SV and the others – in connection with the question of reducing or not shortening social assistance for the later years. That's what I want to get back to in the noise cancelling message.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e757	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 8 and 9 are processed under one and count as agreed. [[Footing, see page 418]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e784	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e795	The purpose of these two proposals is good – as cheap and fair a charge on technical services as possible for residents around Norway. We have stressed in the legislation built around these fee-funded services that they should be self-financing, but no longer. When it is proposed in the first proposal that one should have an extended control that the structure of the municipalities is reasonable and justifiable, I feel that it is going one step too far. The experience I have from local politics, I can sum up that state orders and commitments are negative for local democracy. They represent an unhealthy intervention, which limits freedom of action and reduces interest in running local political work. Retail regulation and reporting bind large labour reserves in municipalities to such work, adding great financial leadership. Therefore, contrary to what is agreed to in the proposal, it should be up to the Storting to reduce the control apparatus and the reporting obligations imposed on the municipalities. The majority, as a national political assembly, should have confidence in the functioning of local democracy and not overestimate it. If there are misunderstandings or situations that are critical or undesirable, we already have the courage we need to deal with such situations, for example. the detention of minorities and the verification of legality by the county council. There are such strong, good security valves that secure the community from abuse by its own chosen trustees and women. This is a ride that should be adequate, which would reduce the Storting's desire and will to further restrict the municipalities' freedom to take care of the questions that directly concern the inhabitants. When it comes to the second point, that you have to offer consumption-dependent prices, this is a work going on. It is now suggested that there should be a two-part rate of charge in municipalities on water and sewerage, that one should have a fixed and equal portion for all, and a consumption-dependent part. When it comes to the cost of waste, it has been suggested that municipalities should differentiate them. This results in a reduction in the amount of waste and an increase in incentives for the recovery of waste. Therefore, there is one way to go in point 2, far on the road to safety because of the work being done in the municipalities. When it comes to the third point about compulsory supply, I would like to comment on it by saying that there is nothing to prevent the municipalities from carrying out compulsory supply in the Member States that they consider this to be inconvenient and necessary. I would also like to add that the proposers, representing Right – which is normally a party with a large number of local trustees and women – must be a party that could have confidence in its many representatives in many municipalities – should be restrained from forcing local politicians to make specific solutions and rather leave it to the municipalities themselves to decide what is the most appropriate and best for their inhabitants. It should not be a task for central politicians to override local politicians in order for citizens to receive decent treatment. This makes me overconfident that the local politicians themselves are able to take care of themselves in a brilliant way. In the context of the work of a simpler Norway, it should be the aim and concrete objective of the Stortingen to simplify the work of local politicians with regard to the various decisions being taken. There's enough obstacles, there's enough bonds, there's enough of the resource connection. Therefore, it should be a priority task for Stortinget to simplify the daily functioning of municipalities, so that one can get the most of the resources back. Then one should rather go in the opposite direction of what a suggest about, that is, state decrees, and in for increased municipal freedom. In the case that one gets accidental or unlucky solutions locally, I would point to the security valves, the minority anchor and the legality control of the county council, which should be full and good control mechanisms so that no such arrangements can be drawn up and developed in the local democracy. In the case of the other Document No: The 8th proposal, which was raised by the Progress Party, to carry out a stricter control of the fees and to repay in three years what had been paid too much, the Committee is quite assembled, with much of the same foundation as for First Document No. The 8 proposal, and can't agree with this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e821	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e824	After hearing the statement by the representative, Mr Gedrem, I find it necessary to ask him a question: Does the representative consider that the freedom of action of local politicians is more important than the legal certainty of the individual citizen? The proposal of the Progress Party is that we want a law enforcement check with the size of the municipal fees. It is the case that municipalities do not have the opportunity to earn and have a profit on that part of their service production, and our proposal is that citizens should have legal certainty against over-taxing them. Then the representative goes out and says that the need for local freedom of action and for local politicians is important. Is it really true that the Christian People's Party considers the consideration of local politicians more important than the consideration that individuals may be subject to unlawfully high charges in a municipality because of lack of control?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e833	In my opinion, there is no basis for constructing a contradiction between the freedom of action of local politicians and the legal certainty of the individual citizen. I for my part – based on long local political experience – have confidence in my colleagues that they largely represent an environment that is permeated by honesty and good intentions. As I mentioned in my main post, one still has some security valves to prevent the community and some groups from feeling overwhelmed. There are enough three representatives from a local government to deal with a matter where they think it's wrong with the laws, because it's not allowed to take more than what the services actually cost the municipality. In addition, the county may, on its own initiative, on the basis of e.g.: newspaper reporters, references from the audience or customers in the municipality, address this issue and carry out law enforcement. Because of trust, general trust in local democracy, I believe that the Storting should give more attention to this and take it more seriously in practice, so that we do not suffocate local democracy with too strong interference, and on the basis of the trust that we should have, we can also have confidence in legal certainty with regard to the decent and proper treatment of the inhabitants in relation to the laws with which we otherwise surround local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e840	We agree that it is important to simplify Norway, and we agree that it is important to respect the decisions of individual elected representatives at local level. But an important element is also the consideration of users. And when we include: the Ministry has received a response saying that it is not known that there have been any miscalculations made in relation to the municipalities regarding these kinds of charges, obviously the government parties and the government of a naive world. We can document three cases that clearly violate the principles of how self-cost should be calculated. We believe that these are also complex areas. It is not so easy to go in and find out whether one has changed from a series loan to annuity loans, for example, to go in and see if one is aware of whether the municipality actually pays a fee, as in one of the cases, or whether all these burdens are imposed on the individual user. These are complex areas that are, in fact, also difficult for leisure politicians to deal with. In this area, we believe that legal certainty is best ensured by the existence of a separate audit system. I'm a little surprised that it seems that you live in that world, it has the notion, that you don't make mistakes, consciously or unconsciously, in the municipalities with regard to which principles are to be based on self-cost. In addition, the Government itself says that in two of the three areas mentioned above, municipalities will be required to rely on a consumption-dependent pricing system, but thirdly, it has not been addressed, namely in terms of renovation. What about the principles in the government parties that you don't have to impose anything on the municipalities when you do it in two areas, but not in the third?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e847	Yes, we're on the way, and my goal, and I'm going to assume that the department shares, is to reduce the regulations for the municipalities. When one in this round is talking about getting more consumer-funded fees, I think it's an attempt to give the municipalities a tip and a call to distinguish between the subscribers when one gets more in an operational phase and the municipalities have a lot of experience in setting fees on the areas for which these charges are relevant. At least we can't develop a community that's flawless and missing, but I think the basic thing here should be a respect for local democracy, a respect that doesn't always show up in the Storting's treatment of local democracy. The three copies that the representative from the Right mentioned, I have not gone in and checked; I expect the municipalities themselves to do so. I refer only to the point that if this is a real mistake, trustees or individuals in the municipalities in question should, of course, take this up with their local authorities or with the county council to confirm whether it is a cause for complaint or not. Rather, one should promote a situation where the state can withdraw more and more, incorporate more and more regulations and laws, and give municipalities greater and greater freedom. It should be a goal in the work we do daily.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e861	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e864	Fortunately, in my opinion, it is rare for us in Stortinget to deal with proposals that have such an impact on overruled municipalities. And perhaps the most eye-catching thing is that it is the Right Party and the Advance Party that are the proposers. Also from a different angle it is surprising, because when I was on the municipal board, the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party were concerned about the tax increases, while the right parties thought that the municipality should not subsidize the fees, but that the real cost of municipal technical services should reflect on the fees received. Like the proposers, we are also concerned about the increase in fees by the Workers' Party, but we have no prerequisite for overcoming what the local government itself has adopted. The November report of the Technical Calculation Committee shows that there are significant differences in municipal charges. Small municipalities have lower charges than large municipalities, and rich municipalities have lower prices than municipalities with lower municipal income. The difference in municipal income is the dominant explanation of price differences. High municipal income contributes to lower charges for all services. Furthermore, the calculation committee says that the level of charges has approached each other in the last decade. Municipalities with the lowest initial rates have experienced strong growth in the 1990s. Why, the sample analysis provides no information about. But in my opinion, that report confirms that there is subsidisation of the fees in the municipalities that can afford it. And the report confirms what the majority of the committee has said, namely that the reason for the local authorities now increasing the fees is complex: both large increases in expenditure through government orders and a generally tight local economy are the causes. Therefore, if the Right Party and the Advance Party wanted the fees to be reduced, it would have been natural for these parties to support the reconciliation between the Labour Party and the Government Parties in terms of the local economy. Because I have no doubt, although the Technical Calculation Committee does not provide information about the reason why the increases have occurred and why the municipalities have approached each other, that one of the main reasons is a tight community economy. An income option available to municipalities is property tax. If high income is low, do the Right Party and the Advance Party apply to property taxes? I think the answer is no. Document No 8:49 contains three suggestions: The first proposal, that the Government should draw up proposals for an audit mechanism to check that consumers pay the right price, is, in our opinion, to suspect the municipalities to charge more than the actual costs. In the opinion of the Labour Party, we have no reason to do so. We must have confidence that the elected representatives in the municipalities know what they are doing, and as has been said before, there is an opportunity for the elected representatives to appeal, so that the county council can control the municipalities. The Labour Party has no objection that this possibility is particularly highlighted in the training that is currently being given to the newly elected members of the local government. It's important that they're familiar with it, and if they want to, they can use that appeal, but to create another auditing system we don't think is right. To the second proposal, to oblige municipalities to offer consumption-dependent prices, the Right Party and the Progressive Party say that the regulatory changes that are now being made seem to comply with this proposal. We agree. With regard to the third proposal, to oblige municipalities to use tenders in municipal technical services, it is as has been said before that it is up to the local authorities themselves to decide. We think it still has to be like that. There is a limit to where the detailed municipalities should be from us sitting on Stortinget. In the view of the Labour Party, it is now more important to consider whether the municipalities can not have greater freedom to decide for themselves than to go the opposite way, namely to override them even more. We in the Workers' Party are concerned about the level of fees, because it is correct as the proposers believe and we claim in our remarks that fees are levied on everyone, whether you earn much or little. We therefore believe that proposal No. 8:49 The Protocol can therefore be annexed to it, even on the grounds that some of the regulations and laws can be viewed in the context of a simpler Norway. We're not opposed to a simplification in this area. As regards proposal No: 8:68, from the Progress Party, it also includes a proposal that the Storting should ask the Government to ensure that ‘if applicable, too much paid-up fees are refunded to subscribers in the last three years’. If it is the case that a municipality has charged too much, I assume that the local government itself is able to handle this. Here we believe in the Labour Party that it is right to reject the proposal precisely for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e895	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e898	It's always interesting to listen to the Workers' Party, who now thought that overarching the local government was what would result from what we are dealing with today. I'm disappointed in what I hear from that edge. As I said in my first line, the point is not primarily to prioritize the municipal government members and the municipality; it is the individual person we are going to work to facilitate the conditions as best as possible for out in the municipality of Norway. And if it is the case that the fees that are printed are illegally high – if they are over 100 pst. self-sufficiency, they are unlawfully high – and if it is such that we believe that control selection and audit are able to reveal all of that material as a user to sum up to the actual costs of producing a special service in the municipality, I think we are wrong. It's actually the case in the municipalities that the audit accepts the numbers that the municipalities put on the table, and does not go any deeper into this. And it is difficult to find out if the level of charges is correct according to the laws and regulations that have actually been adopted by Stortinget and that it is illegal to charge too high a charge. Then I would like to ask: is it such that the representative of Gaundal claims that no local authorities in this country are reversing the fees without it being detected by the audit or control committee? Are they so good at doing their job, after the attention of Gaundal's representative?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e909	Of course, the Labour Party cannot guarantee that the municipalities and local authorities do what is 100 pst. right, but I don't know if we have any prerequisites for saying that what they're doing is wrong. We are more concerned that consumers should, of course, have their rights. Let me illustrate with an example: I took up with the municipality whether a lone pensioner could clear the septic tank every two years instead of every year. Then the municipality says that unfortunately you can't, because we have a regulation that says that if you want to empty the septic tank every two years, the septic tank per. the current date is 5 m3 and not 3 m3. We are the ones who have complied with those regulations, and then we can't go around and blame the municipality for its relationship with the regulations. To the extent that we are going to do something, I think it is right to look at the laws and regulations, and not start to review the municipalities. As I said, we are also concerned about consumers – we are concerned that the level of charges should not be too high. I hardly think there is any case in the municipality that is being discussed as much as the level of fees. There are many people who feel that when the local government is going to decide on it in its budget debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e918	I find it interesting that in the case of monopoly activities where the owner is the local authorities, all thoughts of controlling the monopoly activities, of having guidelines for them, and of having an audit system that ensures that the individual citizens are protected from exploiting the monopoly they actually have, are blown out of the Workers' Party. That's a little weird, because, among other things, The representative, Aud Gaundal, was in the last year involved in addressing the issues related to other monopoly companies in public ownership – even municipal ownership – namely the network companies in the energy sector, which are closely controlled and audited by the NVE every single year. Why? In order to ensure that consumers are not over-exploited in returns and into municipal boxes. The Workers' Party has then been able to see – even though the local authorities may then sit and decide how much they should take in return – the principle lines that monopolies must be controlled and revised, and that the individual people who have to pay have rights, and that those rights must be guaranteed in such a way. I would like to ask Aud Gaundal to explain why there is a difference between the network activity and these other charging schemes, and why the Workers' Party has quite different approaches to controlling the same things that local government can have much influence over these two examples.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e928	It could happen that if we had the local government to control or determine what the network companies and consumers would pay, we would not have had to have those control systems. That is what I think is going to be so wrong with the proposals that have been made here today, because we have arrangements to ensure that consumers do not pay more than they should. And on the basis of the sample that has now submitted its report on the large tax increases taking place in the municipalities, I do not believe that the county is sitting and closing its eyes and does not assess it when he has the budgets in place for approval. As I said, we are so that three local government representatives can appeal the budget to the county council when they have doubts about the reasons for the fees. But to make a new body to control, we don't think we're right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e938	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e941	The Progress Party promotes in Option S. No. 10, which we are discussing today in Stortinget, proposal for the Government to ensure that the County State's control of the municipal accounts is real. With this proposal, the Progress Party wishes to ensure that no municipalities are able to charge higher charges than is permitted by law or regulation. The existing legislation and legislation for the calculation of the level of municipal charges is comprehensive and detailed enough. But in short, municipalities are going to operate according to the principle of self-sufficiency, i.e. that no municipality is allowed to calculate either profit on its service production or to calculate other costs in its tax accounts than those which actually belong there. Because of the sometimes very large differences we are witnessing between municipalities at the level of charges for the same type of services, there seems to be reason to better monitor how each municipality calculates the prices of its services. There is a need for better control of the cost factors that municipalities include in their supporting material when calculating the total costs associated with the performance of the different types of municipal services. There is no guarantee at all that there is a good enough legality check on the pricing of the municipal fees by allowing the municipal, municipal and supervisory boards to check the annual accounts. Firstly, there are not so many specific administrative audit projects in which the municipal auditor enters the municipality at the level of the municipality and carries out a detailed check on the underlying material for, for example, the charging of water or sewerage. The figures from the economic manager are often accepted without any deeper control of what is behind these figures. Thus, there may be both deliberate and unconscious errors in the accounts that an ordinary audit cannot detect. Moreover, it may at all be difficult to find sufficient supporting material for a full legal control of the accounts. The majority mix in this setting in a slightly confusing and unfortunate way with budgetary control and accounting control. A budget is a pre-accounting which will not necessarily be in line with the final annual accounts. The statutory audit by the county with the budgetary decisions is therefore not at all a guarantee that the inhabitants do not pay too high charges. It is primarily a better accounting control that the proposal of the Progress Party calls for, rather than a better budgetary control. Any errors detected in an accounting check, according to our proposal, will result in any overpaid charges being refunded to subscribers, preferably in the form of lower charges next year. Where the majority then chooses to reject the proposal by referring to the fact that municipalities must have sufficient freedom and that municipalities must not be controlled in detail by central authorities, this can easily be interpreted as a signal that consideration of the power of municipal politicians is more important than consideration of the legal certainty of the citizens regarding the level of the fees they are charged. It is inconsequential when the majority seems to believe that the consideration of municipal autonomy is more important than the legal certainty of individuals against the imposition of unlawfully high fees and charges by the municipality. It is precisely in order to ensure better legal protection against the imposition of such unlawfully high charges on citizens that the Progress Party here promotes the proposal that the monitoring of tax accounts by the county council should be effective. Because today there is no 100 pst. ensure that the setting of municipal taxes and charges is always in line with the law on point-to-point. There is therefore a need to correct this, and the proposal from the Progress Party simply means that the county should be required to do something that he should actually do, but not do today. This failure of the State's work is regrettable and should therefore be corrected in order to increase the legality of the annual accounts with regard to the levy component. The Progress Party sees it as one of its most important tasks to work towards a reduced level of taxation in Norway, and for this reason it is important to identify whether there are such individual claims, that some municipalities break the law by increasing the level of self-cost charges. In this context, there is thus less guarantee by pointing out that the municipal audit checks the correctness of the level of fees in its annual regular review of the municipal accounts, because, in my view, the annual audit does not go sufficiently deep in terms of law enforcement with the tax component. So a better guarantee that municipalities do not charge too high charges, we only get a more detailed check that all the materials used are correct. Such control should therefore be subject to the control area of the county council, and it seems strange that this proposal cannot be accepted by the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Centre, as long as it is intended to be the best of the inhabitants. We should not accept that municipalities can commit any offences against their own citizens by charging higher charges than the law and regulations allow. In the Progress Party, it is important that the administration always strives to ensure legal certainty for the individual. The legal certainty of the individual must also be ensured in the area of protection against the imposition of unlawfully high municipal charges. And if it is the case that some municipalities, as I said, charge too high charges, all parties, not just the Advance Party and the Right, should be committed to imposing full legality control on the administration to ensure that the individual is not charged higher than the law and regulation provides for. It is a cross-section of thought that we do not seem to have full certainty that they promise the Stortinget will be complied with by the municipalities, due to a lack of control from e.g. Countess. It is therefore necessary to verify that municipalities also comply with the laws adopted by Stortinget, and especially when this has a direct impact on the economy of the individual. All in all, it is regrettable that the majority is not willing to support this proposal by the Progress Party, which is intended to ensure the legal certainty of the individual citizen against being charged illegally high fees and charges by the municipalities and to ensure that the decision of the Storting is complied with in the 435 municipalities of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e967	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e970	It is inconceivable that the Progress Party is standing here and claims that many people in Norway are charged illegal charges, especially in the areas of water, sewerage, fencing and renovation. And it is incredible that the Progress Party is asking for more control of its local politicians. I expect that most of us have been in a local government before we arrived at Stortinget and believe that we were doing a good job there, and that we were not doing anything illegal. It is also incredible that the Progress Party is asking for more bureaucracy, while they are constantly complaining to many people in the municipal administrations and will give significantly less money to the municipalities. Of course, the principle of self-sufficiency introduced in municipalities in terms of municipal taxes is a political judgement. And we have to trust the political discretion. This is a matter of trust between administrative levels, because it is not the case that the underlying material that the municipalities come up with is completely removed from the air. I've been working on this for 10 years, and I've done such calculations, and I've seen how a technical unit manages schedules to make this the best possible. But, of course, it makes sense – of course, it makes sense when we decide whether the office lady has spent one hour or 50 minutes a day on sewerage and on renovation. And if we're going to be able to determine it completely in minutes, at least a lot more people in the municipalities have to be hired. The Progress Party also claims that the fees will be increased to finance other parts of the operation of the municipality. It is a dry claim, and I ask the representative Andersen to document it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e979	This was a little bit of each. The fact that the fees are suspended refers to a study carried out by the Land Association of the House owners, which clearly indicates that this is the case. So that's probably a certain cover to claim. We see not least that there are considerable variations between municipalities regarding fees. There must be different explanations that there may be some dramatic variations – up to 300 pst. – in the level of charges for the same type of services. With regard to what was said about illegal high charges, that we could claim that there were illegal high charges, it should worry more than us in the Progress Party. If that's the case, it's really dramatic that Kommune-Norge allows to break clear laws that say you can't take more money than it actually costs to produce the service. If that happens, it's very dramatic. There is therefore good reason to require proposals that can see whether this is really the case, or whether things might be the way they should be. So for us in the Progress Party, the concern for the individual is more important than for several other parties, where the consideration of the power of local politicians seems to be the overall one. We are in the vanguard that it is the individual human being who is to be safeguarded, and then municipal autonomy is subordinate to that very principle. In the case of self-sufficiency, the representative said that discretion was exercised. It definitely does. Judgement is used, and therefore it is not correct. I tried to investigate this in my own municipality, and at least I found out that the charging area was actually incurred some irrelevant costs that did not belong there, and therefore the basis for calculating the fee was incorrect.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e990	First, I want to distance myself from the claim that there are parties in the Storting that are not concerned with the legal certainty of the individual human being. But I want to stress that we have a democracy in this country, and if it doesn't work, then legal certainty doesn't work either. We have set up a system of laws, regulations and delegation of responsibilities and powers in some areas. If you don't trust it, and don't believe that this democracy is actually fit to take care of such important values, then you speak for another system, which at least cannot call itself democracy. I ask the representative of the Progress Party perhaps to think a little bit about it. I also want to ask: if it is the case that the Progress Party only trusts the counties of the county and nobody else's, has the Progress Party then put a strong strengthening of the county offices in the budget, so that they can count on all figures? Is there a 100 pst? is the safe way to calculate the fees and is Andersen’s representative completely unfamiliar with the historical basis or the geography of Norway, which allows such charges to become very different around the country? Is it not perhaps also that both the population and the parties can take a local settlement with insecurity among politicians if they do not do their job, that it is an important part of the vitality of democracy and that it is necessary to carry out the control they have set up? There's no one who's meant not to do it. And is it perhaps also the case – I need to ask the representative about it – that the population will soon need protection from having to pay all the double costs incurred in such a nine-time control activity, which has no other purpose than to weaken the confidence of the entire democratic system?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e998	So now our proposal is primarily based on the fact that we want the lowest possible fees in the municipalities. It is important to fight for that, as we know that the fees are significantly high in several Norwegian municipalities. What surprises me is that every time the Progress Party comes up with proposals that may be on a competitive footing to make the Norwegian municipal sector more efficient and perhaps lower the fees somewhat for people, the other parties are blatantly opposed to it and try to explain this as a bad proposal. It turns out from other countries that this works. Some municipalities in Finland, in Sweden, in Denmark, in England that follow our recipe, are actually among the best municipalities, say people who live there. SV tells us that we stand for control and bureaucracy, but of course we do not. We are fighting too much control and bureaucracy, but in those areas where it is important to have an administrative apparatus that ensures the legal certainty of individuals in important matters, for example: on tax issues, we are for such a type of bureaucracy, because it is for the good of the people. There's a lot of other bureaucracy that's not for the good of the people, and that kind of bureaucracy we can do without. Then I was asked if the county has the resources to do what's in our proposal. No, unfortunately, per. the current date does not have resources to do so. But to be able to look at this is nevertheless clearly within the scope of law enforcement, legality control. But the statesmen probably had to have more resources, yes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1012	I think the representative Torbjørn Andersen is getting away with the claim in his post that the municipalities are charging illegally high charges. I know that the forerunner of the party Progress Party was Anders Lange and the fight against taxes and charges and underprices. It was in the middle of the 1970s -- the president knows better than I do, but I think it was in 1972-73. It is clear that Torbjørn Andersen has fought for this, and so has he in 1999, while the representative Gaundal referred to the latest calculations from the Technical Calculation Committee, which show that the charges have actually increased in Municipality-Norway. So you can ask a question about this. But what I'm responding to is the claim that you fight for the individual, and that we who have been in the local democracy and sit in the local government, don't fight for the individual. I believe that Andersen's representative should explain why democracy and the local government do not care for the individual. As has been said earlier in the line change here, this is a new way to get a bigger bureaucracy, to control what Torbjørn Andersen is after. I hope that the representative Andersen can explain to me why we take «unlawful high charges» in Kommune-Norway, and that the individual person is not taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1021	To the representative Leif Lund: No, I don't think we'll get off easy. We're not used to getting into the Progress Party easily, so now it's going to be okay. So to the piece that goes on illegally high charges. When there are things that suggest that this might be the case, we should check it out. We should then be willing to make devices that can control this. The law is 100 pst. clear: no charge shall be made for more than 100 pst. Immunisation. Of course, for a period of time this goes on, but there must be a maximum of self-sufficiency – the principle of self-sufficiency should apply when municipalities have to calculate their taxes and fees. We do not want the individual to suffer in a municipality because it is given different priorities from local authorities to local authorities. If you have politicians in a municipality who give less money to care for the elderly, and in another municipality have politicians who give more money to care for the elderly, we do not get the nationally equivalent offer we want. That is why we also want a different system, which is based on unit prices and state funding, to eliminate the possibility that local politicians can make different offers around the country. I thought the Workers' Party could be involved in that as well. There were issues of better law enforcement. As I can see, today's legality check is on the annual accounts – it is generally accepted by local government – and the tax burden is reduced, almost non-existent. One only accepts the figures that come from the Chief of Economics and that the Audit Board has been handed over from the auditors.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1032	Before the representative goes down from the pulpit, the President will take the opportunity to ask whether the representative would like to take up the proposals under case No. 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1035	It's done with it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1040	Then it's registered. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1045	Stortinget deals with two Document No. 8-proposals, which both seek to ensure the consumer's safety that the proper price is paid for municipal services subject to charges. When the Workers' Party in its contribution collects the property tax as a possible indirect settlement for the same, it hardly meets the requirement of strike security in settlement as we market it in other debates. The procedures of the county council — or perhaps a lack of them — are thus in focus, as this is where the control procedures may be more easily imagined. And it's not about more bureaucracy, we think, as suggested in parts of the debate. I remember that we already have the instances where it's supposed to play – we already have in the system control committee, we have municipal audit, and we have the county council. The majority just refers to municipal audit, control committees and legal requirements from the minority – or more precisely: at least three – of the members of the local council. These possibilities are, of course, available, but we believe that establishing a permanent system for such an audit system may be preferable, not least because so far there have been more sporadic measures through the other two channels mentioned. However, it is important — and most importantly — to establish regular routines. We take note that our proposal on consumption dependence in pricing can be partially met by the notified change in regulations. That's why it's also point. 2 in our proposal now limited to the renovation services, which are still not included in the Government's notified regulatory change, as we have understood. The legal price is the focus of Storting's consideration of these proposals. However, the lowest possible price when the subsidy option disappears will also depend on the way in which the services are provided – therefore point. 3 in our proposal that tenders should be the rule relating to the production of these services. Competitive outsourcing as a principle is on the way into Norwegian municipal everyday life, but it is going extremely slowly. The strategic resistance of employee organisations remains significant. We experience that every day outside this house. Our duty, however, is to put the users of the services in the centre, and it would not be wrong for us to draw attention to the role mix that is a problem in Norwegian municipalities, as long as we find that the payer, the orderer, the producer and the controller are one and the same institution. We are here today as part of a divided state power, with the advantages it implies, and it is not to be expected that a division of roles at municipal level in small and practical matters could also be desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1060	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1063	It is not surprising that the Progress Party and the Right have quite similar vision when they make the proposals. The progress point places the individual in the center, and the right puts the user in the centre. I have some problems understanding the difference, but I assume that both parties disagree that local democracy works. Erna Solberg showed in a previous line some examples, which are also in the setting. Three examples she found in Norway — it is good to find three pieces in that quite country. Then she continued that it was so complicated to understand. I don't know if those cases really are real, but they're now in the setting, so people get to see what's there. And then Erna Solberg said something I reacted a little bit to. She claimed that those who participate in local democracy are ‘recreational politicians’. In fact, I believe that the free-time politicians, at least in the governing bodies around the municipality of Norway, are in a minority. My question to the Right is whether it is so to understand that a local politician, who in this case as well as being subject to the ability to control and put the user and the individual in the centre, is to perceive as a leisure politician, and that he is not really working on political issues in local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1070	I can reassure the replicator that from our side there is no big difference between the individual and the user in the case, so it can go to one point. There is therefore a fairly large consensus between the Progress Party and the Right on this point, so that there is a representative of the Workers' Party in so far as it is right in its suggestion. When it comes to the consideration of the leisure policy and the professional politician, it is a little matter which municipalities are being picked up from, but in my local policy everyday life, it was a heavy ice of leisure policy. But the issue is playing on this minority of three who are going to bring a municipal government decision, which they may feel forced to be part of, into law enforcement. So the answer to the Workers' Party's representative is that we think it's okay to have a certain distance between production and control, including on documents.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1077	It might be tempting to ask what kind of political experience it is if it is the case in the local government that Mr. Hoddevik knows, that representatives feel compelled to participate in the decision. That's what I think is quite serious, and I think that actually requires an explanation. I need to get Mr. Hoddevik's representative to confirm that there is a small error in Innst. S. No 15, that SV should have been co-sponsor for proposal No. 2, on differentiated refurbishment fee. I'll come back to that in my post. But the question I had intended to ask, goes to the Right's principal battle in order that everything should be put to tender. I understand that the Right now wants to go far beyond what the Public Procurement Code does, and that the municipalities will now be forced to do so. Can the right then explain how far down in terms of tasks you might expect to go? How small is the ditch to be dug, or how many nails are to be punched before a full bidding round is to be completed? There is a great deal of cost to be charged to bid in relation to the fact that there is something profitable in it, and I remind you that the municipalities have a responsibility to be prepared in some municipal technical areas, which means that they need to have permanent employees and fixed contracts. This means that they also need to be able to use these employees for various tasks, and it would be directly economically unprofitable if they cannot provide services that the municipality needs. So I ask the Right to clarify its proposal, what they really mean here. How small a task are we now talking about, and will this tear away the foundation of the entire municipal preparedness?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1087	We may have to express ourselves unclearly if it is such that parts of the municipality feel compelled to participate in the decision. I think I used the words ‘part of’, and it must be based on the possibility of reviewing the basis of calculation, as has been explained in the debate in the past. There's also, as we know, a need to get it to vote on the bottom line, so you have to have the argument exactly in place if you're going to take the fight on your own municipal board. So it was this with our punctual proposal on bids and the lower limit. We have refrained from precisely defining this precisely because the main point of offer – or lack of such – is that there has been a fundamental resistance to it. But in all the debates in which we participate, of course, we have suggested and said that there is a practical limit. We'll look up that limit of course, without being able to define where the limit goes, because it'll be an experience you do in each case. Of course it will. And if tenders become the rule, there are, of course, also possibilities for exemptions. Our experience is that it's the opposite that's wanted. So if we could get a heavier ice spot out of competition, we would probably be able to find the limit when it was practically possible to light things up on tenders – whether small or large ditches.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1094	It's in many ways a strange debate that crystallizes itself here. It is probably related to the fact that the starting point is so much different between the Right and the Advance Party on the one hand, and the other parties on the other. Our starting point is that we have faith that the local politicians who are elected and who are going to deal with many of the issues raised here with regard to the setting of charges for municipal services are hard-working people who put their honor into doing the best possible job, while the starting point for the Progress Party and the Right, as I see it, is that it is close to saying that there are boiler rings sitting out there and setting fees and charging rates. But there are many reasons why there are different rates from municipality to municipality. You don't have to ignore that. When I heard the representative Torbjørn Andersen's starting point for the debate, it struck me that a number of us sitting in this room are also in local government, county councils and city councils. At least I know that the representative Carl I. Hagen is in the City Council of Oslo and is involved in determining the level of fees in the Municipality of Oslo. And I'm going to believe, from my point of view, that the representative Hagen of the City Council in Oslo is doing the best possible job based on the knowledge he has, and is charging according to the conditions that exist. I don't think of Hagen as a basement in that way. I want to ask the representative, Mr. Hoddevik, whether the Right agrees with the basic principle on which the representative, Mr. Torbjørn Andersen, agrees, that there are people in the local government and city councils around who set illegal high charges and therefore are more or less looking at as basement rings in relation to the people they have chosen to do a good job for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1103	The President has some doubts as to whether the use of terms in the parliamentary sense is quite good, but nevertheless he believes that this should be possible in the context in which the representative now presented it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1106	It could be tempting to hang on to this terminology all the time when there weren't separate party traps used as an example, but it was literally a line to the Right, and I don't want to extend the discussion on the questionable language, just play back and say that control procedures do, for good reason, have a part of this country, without everyone being controlled, getting a negative stamp attached to it. Now the setting from our side is so to read that there is an example that the legality has been set aside, either knowingly and willfully, or as an accident at work. And the control procedures are just going to catch up that such things are being avoided. It could rather clothe us to be factual that we have the best intentions, without it being such a significant mistrust of local democracy as our counter-debtants later on. We may not be able to bring up the temperature of the debate that some others have, but we have a serious point-by-point approach, which without producing great bureaucracy could be expected to improve the situation – as said without stamping our local democratic participants.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1115	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1118	The rapporteur has, in essence, taken full care of the views of the Centre Party in this matter. However, I would like to take this opportunity to recall what the Central Party has as its overall objective, and that is to secure and strengthen democracy, and not to build it down. For the Central Party, it is essential that municipalities are given sufficient freedom and that they are not controlled in detail by central authorities. We just have a local election behind us, and I know a little bit about the problems all around the country had in the process before that election. It was very difficult to get people to put on the lists. Why was that? Because there are so few people who today feel that it makes sense to engage in local politics. I see that as a danger signal. I think it's important that people both see the need to engage, and that they have the will to engage. I'm not in doubt that if we constantly restrict local democracy with this bit of bit-policy I feel the Progress Party is increasingly promoting its proposals, it becomes even more difficult to make people enter as active local politicians, because they see that they're just sitting there as sandblowers. They spend a lot of time going through a lot of paper, and people see that they're completely overwhelmed anyway. I would also like to say that I have been so lucky to be allowed to live in a little different municipalities here in the country and get to know a little different things. I see that we have a very complex reality. I also see it as a wealth that we have this diversity. But where we have inequalities, different solutions are also needed to achieve equivalence. I do not think this proposal is really necessary. We don't need any more state orders from above to the municipalities. On the contrary, we need to facilitate a greater degree of municipal autonomy. What is the finest thing about democracy is that it places politicians in charge of voters every four years. So it's the people themselves on the grassroots who have the opportunity to change where they see that politicians don't do the right thing. Not all requirements shall come from above. We need to have legislation and stay within the framework, yes, but within these frameworks there should be a high degree of municipal freedom. I noticed with interest the Torbjørn Andersen of the Progress Party, who said that they want to eliminate the opportunities for politicians to put up different solutions around the country. It was a clarification statement. I am only even more confident that the policy of the Progress Party is far from that of the Centre Party, because we want to make it possible for politicians to facilitate different solutions where it is for the benefit of the municipalities and the individual, the individual user.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1131	Municipal technical services shall be maritime funding. Then it is just as wrong and illegal to charge too low charges as too high charges. It might have been possible to recover a lot of pathos about the illegal subsidisation that would affect the individual, for example. when you didn’t get enough babysitting because someone left off for cheap taxes on water and sewage. I'm not going to take that discussion, but this is a matter of many pages. I respect and fully agree with what the proposers have, namely that we have to have as low a legal charge as possible. It's important. There are large differences in this respect. Most of the reasons for this are very good. There shall be a local political debate and decisions on what is included in the charging basis. Many of us have been on it. There may be some political disagreement about what should be included in the tax base, because there is different organisation and because there is a difference between the costs involved in different places. These are heavy investments that are made over a long period of time and are to be paid off and compensated for over a long period of time. Therefore, it may be very difficult to have a hundred percent correct answers to what costs this will entail for the individual. I hardly think that the basis for which expenditure is to be included will be clarified by even more control, if one does not believe that the Storting or the Government is competent to find the right basis of calculation that fits anywhere at any time over many years, and that should also be able to fit with the pattern of expansion, the basic conditions, the different municipal organizations that exist, etc. – if that is not the objective of forcing standardisation of these costs. I think it would have been a more reasonable starting point for the proposal if you had meant it, but I understand that you still believe that it should be allowed to take the local considerations that are appropriate. It should be. Control procedures are established locally. It is a responsibility of both the local government, the local municipal audit and the municipal board of control. I regard this responsibility as absolutely unmistakable and that it must be followed up with all the nitite controls that are necessary. I also actually believe that the people here are involved in exercising control over their politicians. In my time as a local politician, there were few other issues I received so many enquiries and few other issues on which so much time was spent – nine-time calculation of what was the right basis. Here, I think you don't rely too little on a population that is fully capable of saying from and getting hold of this if you think it's wrong. I believe that this proposal will only lead to another level of control, more bureaucracy and perhaps even less local involvement. So to proposal No. 2 to the Inn. S. No 15, which I mentioned in my previous post, to which SV has signaled a desire to be part of the proposal. It is therefore an important principle – the polluter pays principle – and not to pay for pollution. If you produce little waste, you have to reduce the municipal tax. I understand that this is working with it, and that the Workers' Party agrees with this. Then I think it would be a little strange if we were to vote against it. It would be totally unnatural for SV to vote against such a proposal, so we're going to go in for that. With regard to the proposal to force all technical services on tenders, I have mentioned it a little before in a reply. I just want to remind you that in some municipalities it may be that there are few providers, or maybe just one. Then we know what happens to the prices. They are then pushed up, and at least that cannot be the intention of this proposal. So I believe that this proposal – which I disagree with in principle, it is now one starting point – if it is to be implemented in practice, is far too precise as to how the proposal has actually been implemented. And the SV is going to go against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1149	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1152	There was only one line to the representative, Andersen, when it was a glimmer of paragraph 2 of the proposal here. I wonder if there is a slight misunderstanding, because it is also stated in the case-law that when it comes to waste, it is promised to differentiate the waste charge in order to promote waste reduction and recovery. So there's something one today's law, there's an established situation, just to promote recovery and to prevent waste, or that one gets too much waste. So this side is all the same. And what the ministry says is under work, the same principle is that it's a fixed part and a variable part when it comes to water and sewerage. It's under assessment, and the department thinks it'll come up with a call to the municipalities to differentiate this type of service. So if Andersen's representative is saying that reducing the amount of waste and stimulating waste recovery, it's all in the legal text.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1157	I understand that the government is working on this, but there is a significant difference between an invitation and a burden. And for SV, it is an important principle to implement that the polluter pays, and that it should pay to pollute little. That is why we believe it is a fundamental question that such waste charges should actually be differentiated, and that there is a lead that we want to make applicable throughout the country. We want to vote in favour of the proposal to highlight a principle approach to these issues, we believe that there is not enough to call for it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1163	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1168	I actually took the floor because of what came from the representative Odd Eriksen, who thought that I called the municipal politicians 'cleft rings'. That is not the case at all. The point is that the local government members should be able to make the right decisions on the right basis, we just have to have the control I want, in order for them to have the right number material to take their decisions. In so far as it can be said that the representative Eriksen makes a fundamental mistake when making such a claim. It's just to find out if it's the right cost factors that have been calculated in the respective municipal accounts, in order to determine the correct price level and the correct price to subscribers, that we need to have a check. Politicians must generally only accept the data they receive. It is extremely difficult for a – if I am allowed to use the term – layman’s policy to carry out an independent analysis of all the cost factors that are embedded, for example. in the accounts of a municipality, whether all are relevant to that area of accounts. It's almost not possible. In such a perspective, one usually has to rely on professional technical assistance, and I believe that that assistance should come from the county, which has a control responsibility with regard to the legality of the decisions. We don't get along, as I see it, that the problem is just what kind of cost factors are embedded in the respective charging areas. In order to identify whether only relevant costs are included, a change of audit procedures is also needed, as proposed by the Right. Thus, the Progress Party has no problem in supporting the Right-wing proposal in this area. Also, the proposal from the Right on consumption-dependent fees for renovation is a matter of course to support, and it should actually be for other parties in this room as well. It must then be said to be extremely unfair that, for example. a single pensioner who almost does not deliver waste pays the same as a household who may deliver the multiplicity of waste. It's a cross of thought, it's unfair, and it should have done something about it. The payment system we have today gives no motivation either to reduce the amount of waste that a supplier delivers. So it is with regret that I note that the proposals put forward today by the Right and the Advance Party do not receive greater acceptance in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1175	It has been said very strangely from the Progress Party in this debate that neither politicians nor those who work in the municipalities, and at least not those who work in the municipal audits, are almost competent for some of the world's things. I'm quite shocked by such a statement. I would like to remind you that it is fully possible for local government representatives, if they believe that they have not received a good enough basis, to apply for technical assistance, to ask the municipal audit to clarify the basis. In fact, it is also possible to use external assistance if it is considered that the basis on which it is based is not sufficient or not suitable for making the right decision. This is a nine-time job. But if you think that a municipal level with both politicians, professionals and audit and with an opportunity to appeal to the county council, as it is today, is not competent for this, then I almost don't know who you think should be competent. It is technically, but in very many areas it is seaworthy to apply for the technical assistance needed to achieve this. If it is the case that the Progress Party actually believes that this area should not really be a municipal responsibility, if that is the case, then I think the Advance Party should say so. It almost sounds like you think this is so technically complicated and difficult, and that this is an opportunity to commit so much illegality, that there are actually some other people who were going to do it. I don't know who's coming through the Prom. For the time being, it seems to be the county council, without the Progress Party being willing to provide the county council with the resources to carry this out. But one place has to end the control noia in a way, and one might have to realize that some politicians at some level are competent to make such decisions. I record that the Progress Party does not see that their own local local government representatives are competent for the role they have taken on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1182	In the final article, it was suggested that each local government representative could draw bills on the bureaucracy we have, in order to be able to do all the details at his own expense. There is then a question in the air about what is the simplest procedure and the simplest method: to have a reliable institution that controls on behalf of everyone, or to have an institution that will enable each representative to carry out audits on his own basis. Then it will again – an indication from my side of course – that what Karin Andersen is proposing here will be much more socio-economically burdensome than the proposal we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1187	Just a few words from the Labour Party at the end of the debate. It has been explained why not all the parties can be included in point 2 of the proposal. The Labour Party is in favour of us attaching this to the protocol, because we believe that the municipalities themselves, together with the Government, are able to find solutions that allow us to obtain consumer-dependent renovation fees. To say a few words about my own municipality, Bergen, and my own boss, I sort it out. I sort paper, I have compost bins, and I get rejection of the renovation prices in relation to what I do. The municipalities are pretty ingenious and pretty good at giving us discounts if we want to do something for ourselves, so this debate is really a little bit difficult. I think we're a little unfair to our fellow politicians and actually also to the bureaucrats around Municipality-Norway, because they're trying to make the best of this. And – as I pointed out in my own case – I think it's very happy to look at the bill when it comes, that I get 25 pst. rejection because I have compost bins in the garden.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1192	Torbjørn Andersen has had the word twice and has a speaking time of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1195	SV is a party that is actually opposed to bureaucracy when it comes to helping individuals, but when you need to strengthen the public, you are in SV immediately for a large public sector with a large bureaucracy. So that three local government members may require a statutory audit. They may appeal to the Department and the Department has delegated this to the County. However, even if it is done, the county does not – on the grounds that there is no capacity – carry out such a verification of legality, according to the information I received from a county council at the latest today. Thus, in practice, the verification of legality has been lifted in terms of what the county can do, as the system operates today. I find that very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1202	Karin Andersen has had two articles in the past, and gets the word for a short line of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1205	The last claim, that the law enforcement has been lifted, I think almost the mayor should think something about. That is a completely new information. In terms of what each representative of the local government must do in order to take proper decisions, there is a clear difference between what you think you should do. SV is of the opinion that local government representatives must intervene in the matters on which they are to decide. They have the municipal audit, which is a professional accountant, and which is independent of the decision of the local council in the sense that they must not be loyal and not be bound by having some sort of political governance over them to say that the decisions that are taken are, in any case, correct. So there's a real control that needs to be done. The control committee is appointed by the local authority and the local authority audit may, on behalf of the control committee, review the accounts and also carry out administrative checks. So we have an established system. I believe that if there is a failure in the use of this system, that is what we should address, and not create even more bureaucracy and control systems as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1214	In order to make an attempt to answer the last one that was now mentioned: until 1991, the rule was that decisions on fees for municipal technical services were automatically approved by the county council. Since 1991, this system, which has been mentioned by many, has been lost. It is the case today, as several have rightly pointed out, that when at least three municipal government representatives want the tax decision controlled by the county council, there is a basis for state law enforcement through the county council. In addition, the county may, on its own initiative, verify the legality of a fee decision if it considers that the decision is lawful. It may be on the basis of a media look-up or contact from the population that the county can take a separate initiative. Of course, this has not been lifted. It's settled, the code is like that. I do not know of cases where the statesmen have not had the capacity to prioritize legality control, but it is clearly established. Secondly, we do not have a general audit system for the municipal sector. The municipal sector appoints its own audit and is required under the municipal law to have an audit to verify that accounts are in accordance with budgetary decisions and that regulations and rules are followed, both those adopted by the local government itself, and general laws and regulations. To impose an audit obligation on a county is also to introduce a completely new system that is quite extensive. I do not feel that debate to any extent there is any particular reason to go into it in the light of what has been said here today. I just note that the law enforcement is firm – three local government representatives may require legal review.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1221	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 8 and 9. [[Fotation, see page 419]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1236	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 419]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1250	Storting goes to voting on the issues on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1256	There is a vote on the proposal by the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, sent from the meeting of the Odelsting 21 October 1999: ‘The Government asks the Government, as part of the work of a permanent law on technical colleges, to assess a state acquisition of the funding of the schools.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1272	There is a vote on the proposal by the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, sent from the meeting of the Odelsting 21 October 1999: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a financing model for technical colleges based on independent units which receive their income calculated from the number of students.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1288	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 21 October 1999: ‘The Government asks the Government for advice as soon as possible to ensure that the students of technical colleges receive funding for their studies irrespective of the number of years of secondary education.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1313	To Case No 5 and 6 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1340	The Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Center have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1353	During the debate, Mr Andersen presented three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The suggestions are first voted on and then over the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1358	I ask that there be a separate vote on the proposals and encourage the SV's group to vote in favour of proposal No. 2
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1363	It has to be taken care of. We can then proceed in the following way: first, we vote on the proposals. 1 and 3 from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a proposal for an audit mechanism to verify that consumers pay the right price for municipal technical services.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The decision asks the Government to draw up proposals requiring the municipalities to use tenders in municipal technical services.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1385	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up proposals requiring municipalities to offer consumption-dependent prices for renovation services.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-16.ana.ud245e1413	During the debate, Mr Andersen presented two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that the control of local accounts by county councils is effective, including that for no municipality there is a higher charge for water, renovation, sewerage and fencing than the law and regulations permit.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to ensure that, in the last three years, any overpayment of the fee is refunded to subscribers, plus interest of the amount of late interest, cf. Law of 17 December 1976 No. 100.’» An alternative is to vote between the position and the proposals of the Progress Party. The Committee had ceased: Document No 8:68 [[1998 - 1999]]
