ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e52	The President of the Grand Duchy, Kirsti Kolle Grondahl, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the West-Agder counties: Rolf Terje Klungland For Hedmark County: Erling Brandsnes For Hordaland County: Gard Folkvord and Kurt-Arne Langeland For the Nordic counties: Lisbeth Holand and Arvid Falch For Oslo: Ann Kathrine Tornås and Anders C. Shaastad For the Rogaland County: Toril Haaland Horpestad For Sogn and Fjordane County: Håkon Giil For the North-Trundellag County: Astri Wessel For Eastfold County: Morten Olsen
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e110	The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal. Øystein Hedstrøm On behalf of John I. Alvheim, Harald T. Nesvik and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the continuation of the emergency medical response at the Hospital Østfold Askim at the level per year. 1 January 1999 until the Storting has dealt with the emergency notification. [[(Frp):]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e117	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e127	I will use this administrative policy statement to present the Government's view on the role and tasks of administration in the years to come. The statement contains the Government's overall vision and objectives in this important area, but also an orientation on concrete projects and plans on how to achieve these objectives. The government has as its starting point that people can and will be active participants in society, and not just customers and clients. Although the administration seems to work well, it does not mean that we can settle down with the status quo – on the contrary. In the Waksenå Declaration, the government parties pointed out that the government is under pressure. A well-functioning administration is our foremost tool to maintain and continue the rule of the people. Citizens must experience that the administration takes care of their interests and is at their service. At the end of the day, there is a question of democracy, and that is also my main point of view for this presentation. Governments are subject to a high level of attention. What happens there concerns and occupies the vast majority. Administrative policy focuses attention on the purpose, tasks and value base of administration. It is about developing the framework conditions so that management becomes a well-suited instrument for implementing adopted policies. Management policy is about the structures and processes chosen to implement the policy. Administration must be characterised by transparency, legal certainty and privacy. The administration is the servants of the people and the people's government. The service position and respect for the individual must therefore be the administrative characteristics of the administration. At the same time, the resources made available to the administration to perform the tasks need to be used as efficiently as possible. In practice, there may be a conflict between the interests of transparency, legal certainty and efficiency. These must be balanced against each other in each specific situation, but it is the government's view that transparency should be an overall objective. The government wants a living democracy, where citizens must be able to influence their everyday lives and their future and actively participate in decision-making at all levels of society. One of the prerequisites for this is a well-functioning and transparent administration. This means that both central and local government need to adapt to new assumptions as other changes in society take place. We need to solve problems in new ways and catch up on new needs. The Norwegian administration has also undergone major changes over the almost 200 years of its existence. The changes have been necessary because of the major upheavals that have taken place in society otherwise, when we have gone from peasant communities to industrial communities. This is also true now, when we go into the knowledge and information society. We're at a time. The use of information and communication technologies is shaping our everyday lives in an increasingly comprehensive way. In particular, institutions, processes and usual patterns of interaction are changing much faster than in the past. Past knowledge monopolies and traditional information flows are broken, and the media image is radically changing. Education and learning become a lifelong process. The administration cannot and does not. For my part, I have to say that I am impressed by how forward-looking and offensive management meets the technological challenges. At the same time, it is important for this government that we continue to maintain a critical approach that ensures privacy and legal certainty. Developments in the administration over the past 10-15 years have been marked by the transition to new forms of public sector connectivity where direct governance opportunities have been reduced. The traditional influence of public authorities through state governance and monopolies is thus weakened in a number of areas and is likely to be further weakened. This is partly due to the emergence of alternative offers, partly to increased access to knowledge by individuals and organised interests. An exciting consequence of this new knowledge-based society is that administration will meet a much more resource-intensive and demanding citizen than before. She will have far more choice, will be able to gain more information about rights and obligations and will not least impose entirely new requirements on the service, efficiency and quality of the administration. Active and transparent citizens will also expect us to have an open and accessible administration, which allows transparency and participation in the decision-making process, and which meets the individual with respect. We want to create a future where working and organisational life is built around the use of knowledge and communication without borders. As a result, society becomes more flexible. If we do not make significant changes to and renewal of public administration, we are therefore at risk of facing tomorrow's problems with today's solutions. Technology opens up new opportunities where we see embellishment of the employer-employee relationship. Income-generating work no longer needs to mean having a fixed employee relationship to the extent we know today. Individuals must be able to influence their own work situation to a much greater extent and shape their own jobs. In addition, the distinction between work and leisure time will be more elucidated, not least through home office schemes and more individual working time arrangements. Increased internationalisation of both capital, goods flows and information will also put pressure on the national State, its value base, its legitimacy and thus its entire administration. We need to make it clear that it may be necessary to replace current forms of organisation and communication with new ones. The optimal distribution of labour between central and local administrations and between public and private activities must be constantly sought. The boundaries between the public and private sectors can become less sharp. Thus, key challenges for management policy will be: increase transparency and citizens’ right to transparency and to develop information-based measurable quality requirements for the administration’s modernisation, simplification and efficiency of public sector development skills, adaptability and service attitudes of national employees; Management is a tool for the exercise of policies. It is therefore an important instrument for democracy. But it should be something more than that. The government expects the administration to actively contribute to promoting the democratic development of society. This assumes that values such as availability, transparency, participation, service and quality of service must be as important as the more traditional management values: legal certainty, neutrality, professional independence, non-discrimination and predictability. Management has long worked systematically to improve its relationship with users. There's a lot left, but we've also achieved results. The confidence of citizens in the administration must be built through good individual meetings between citizens and administration. Trust is built by clarifying expectations and then meeting them. The individual is more than a user of public services. She is also a citizen and a participant in society. This implies a right to democratic participation and to promote own views in order to influence processes until decisions are taken. But it also presupposes that individuals, based on their resources, engage actively and participate in social development. The aim of civic orientation must be to increase the number of active participants in the decision-making process in society. While encouraging participation through traditional channels, the Government will also place great emphasis on identifying both new channels of participation and forms of work and organisation that can help increase participation in decision-making processes. This will help to improve the basis and legitimacy of decisions. Better and wider participation in the policy process is also necessary to improve the integration of different groups into an increasingly diverse and complex society. In order to maintain a good and stable democracy, it is important to avoid the development of large subcultures or groups that remain outside the rest of society. Focusing on the individual has implications both for the organisation and functioning of the administration and for the requirements of public sector employees. If we are to move forward in this work, we must be willing to raise questions about the role of administration, such as: How can governance contribute to more democratic development?How can governance strengthen the legitimacy of political decisions?How can governance develop relations with the private sector with the perspective of democracy for the eye?How can governance become more service-oriented and focussed on respect for the individual? An action is to organise new meeting places between administration and citizens. Both the administration and the citizen have a responsibility for this. We also need to assess whether it is possible to simplify the policy process in order to make it available to more people. Not least, we want to focus on developing a more conscious and clear relationship with the voluntary organisations, so that they can play their role as a central part of civil society. Voluntary organisations have both welfare and democratic functions. Management, for its part, must be more bold and experiment more with its working methods. A far more extensive use of open electronic hearings can be one example. The objective of the management user orientation programme is to increase the focus of management on the final product and users’ assessment of the services provided. A user-oriented, quality proof and service-provided administration is a prerequisite for trust both among the users of welfare services and among the population. This is not only true when the State is a provider, but at least as much when it administers laws and guidelines or exercises powers. The administration produces services that are important to a user, to an individual, to an organisation or to an enterprise. The responsibility for maintaining good quality of services lies with more than the department that meets the user directly. Such an approach to management means that all parts of it are responsible for the services provided to users. The ministry's work is also usually part of a chain of actions, attitudes and decisions resulting from a service to a user. The user shall be a conscious and critical consumer in relation to public services, a customer who increasingly demands to have his case handled here and now and who does not accept a period of months and years. In addition to the provision of information, all public enterprises must also pay attention to exploiting the electronic channel for a user-oriented and efficient service, such as: use of electronic forms and other arrangements for reporting, receiving and processing applications, orders and different types of online interactive services. Increasingly more resource-intensive and conscious users will impose new management requirements and help to focus attention on user concerns. Service provision must become a more important part of the organisational culture of enterprises and must be focused on in line with traditional management values. Recruitment to administration must not become too one-sided, but more reflect the diversity of values represented by different groups in society. This will also contribute to a greater understanding of the different needs of users. Service declarations are among the new instruments that are now being tested for this improvement. The work on service declarations is now under way in both state and municipal administration as well as in the courts. Such declarations will be an important instrument, but they are not alone sufficient to achieve the desired results. The government wants public service offices where users of public services are given a coordinated, good service and accessibility to public services. The scheme must be seen as a real service lift. One door, one desk, one phone number! The establishment promotes rural development by curbing local closures of public enterprises, which will form part of the service offices. In addition, public service offices will be able to form part of the building of democracy by expanding them into a meeting place between citizens and politicians. Interesting are the Swedish service offices which have a fixed time in the week where citizens can meet their local politicians. For this reason, a working group has been set up to look at any formal barriers to public service agencies, to propose changes and to recommend solutions. The Group shall give its opinion by February 2000. Another example is ‘Norge.no’, which collects all information available from state and local government information on the Internet. This will not only be information on administration, but also on the Stortinget and the courts, and will contribute to the organisation and presentation of information as appropriate in relation to the target audiences. The government hopes that the establishment of this gateway will both make it easier for people to get in touch with public authorities and at the same time stimulate public authorities to use the Internet as a channel in their information work and in their interaction with users. The government has initiated a programme for a simpler Norway. The State shall make it easier for individuals and business to deal with the public and the municipalities to gain greater freedom so that they can make greater use of their resources in the provision of services rather than administration and control. The Prime Minister himself is at the forefront of this programme, and with him in the steering group he has several government councils. The programme A simpler Norway has three objectives: Firstly, the Government will implement a clean-up and simplification of regulations and regulations, in particular with regard to business. Norwegian legislation shall be as resource-intensive as possible to comply with it. Secondly, it should be easier for individuals to deal with public services and government bodies. In addition to the establishment of service offices and the development of service declarations, there is reason to work on modernising, streamlining and coordinating the service equipment and on better division of tasks between levels and sectors. Thirdly, there will be a review of state legislation and directives against the local government sector. The idea is to remove bindings that reduce the local space for action and weaken the effectiveness of the task solution. In the Adult Declaration, the Government expressed a desire to: ‘use information and communication technologies to renew, improve and modernise all aspects of the public sector’. At the same time, traditional administrative policy values such as privacy, legal certainty and non-discrimination shall be fully respected. The measures to contribute to the achievement of the Government’s objective are elaborated in a separate action plan aimed at coordinating and supporting IT developments in central government. We see today that a growing proportion of the administrative tasks are being carried out electronically. The availability of technology is a prerequisite for an electronic administration where dialogue and interaction can take place within the administration and between management and their users. Statistics show that almost 1.7 million people in Norway now have access to the Internet at home, at school or at work. Access to the Internet has increased explosively, and the growth curve seems to keep going. The Internet is a suitable channel for the provision of information, but also suitable for the provision of services and services. For example, I can mention that several banks are now offering banking services over the network, and the users are very satisfied. These users will expect the management information and services to be made available on the network so that they can operate themselves, at the time and from where it best suits them. The management shall be responsive to such expectations and make use of appropriate electronic tools. In Norway, we have, among other things: through ODIN, early in this field, and an increasing number of administrative bodies are developing Internet services to meet new challenges. It is my main goal that information technology should benefit everyone – directly or indirectly. IT shall be deployed in such a way as not to create new information gaps in society between those who can and those who cannot benefit from this technology. It is a political task to ensure that resources released are deployed to improve traditional channels for those who will continue to use them. The use of new technologies leads to major changes in administration and society. The legislation needs to be revised to take account of the changes. New technologies and media developments have contributed to greater transparency, but they also impose new requirements for archiving, recovery and publication in administration. I therefore see it as very important to have a conscious relationship with this development. The Electronic Postal Journal project is a good example of how new technology can contribute to more transparency in administration. At the same time, the importance of geographical distance is reduced by making departmental records electronically available and searchable on the Internet. The government's goal is to bring all the departments and major agencies to this project. The management has demonstrated, through experiments with electronic consultations and discussion groups, that it wants to use new technologies to facilitate active democracy, where the threshold of transparency and dialogue with management is lower than today. A concrete example is the Management Network project, which, throughout the development process of framework agreements for IT products and services, has actively used the Internet for a continuous dialogue with potential suppliers and customers. At the same time, this has allowed interested citizens to follow the process closely. Rapid and easy access to basic legal source information will strengthen the principle of legal certainty and the democratic process and contribute to an efficient, quality-oriented and more transparent public administration. A working group has recently been set up that has been mandated to explore the possibility of developing a comprehensive, user-friendly and reliable system of public duty and rights information. The information system shall provide easy access to information on laws, regulations, processes and case-law through the Internet. The public sector is increasingly exposed to competition, both as a result of technological developments and as a result of internationalisation of goods, services, capital and labour markets. It is also a requirement for the most efficient operation of the public sector. This requirement will not be reduced when the revenues from the petroleum-based activity will be reduced in the longer term. The role of the state has changed over the past decade. Extensive exemption has been granted to State establishments. The state appears to be organisational and managerially more differentiated than before. One feature has been the fact that more and more businesses and tasks are being organised away from the core of the country and into a form of freer association. Structural changes require a redefinition of tasks and roles by the public sector. There have been relatively many changes in the form of links in recent years, administrative and business tasks are increasingly distinguished, and the roles of the service provider, supervisory and control authorities and the performance of the services are increasingly re-established. It is necessary to look at the extent and organisation of state ownership. The government believes that government governance can be exercised in ways other than through full ownership. Keywords may include more use of legislation instead of instructions and traditional ownership management, the distribution of concessions, changed business requirements, return requirements, etc. Where the State acts as owner, it is important to ensure that the State manages its ownership effectively and professionally, including: through state policy on returns and dividends. In order to improve the quality of ownership, it will be a challenge to complement private owners. The government emphasises the need for a large public sector to ensure equivalent offers across the country. At the same time, we stress the need for modernisation and renewal of the public sector, inter alia. by putting the user in the centre and developing measurable quality requirements for services. The government will strengthen the knowledge base resulting from technological developments and the competition to which the public sector is exposed. The government has therefore started work on assessing the competitive exposure of the public sector. A sample shall generate and systematise knowledge on both the assumptions and experience of competitive exposure. On this basis, the sample shall assess as well as areas suitable for competitive exposure, as well as the type of competitive exposure that should be used for different services. In public service production, it may be appropriate to distinguish between the order role and the producer role. As an order, the public has primary responsibility for defining the content and setting quality requirements for the service and verifying compliance with the requirements. Furthermore, the public that also orders has a clear responsibility to finance the service, so that individuals can access the service as necessary, not according to financial capacity or other resources. It is not and will not be relevant for the public to give up this responsibility in relation to key welfare goods such as healthcare, care and education. Although the responsibility for ordering a service is public, the responsibility for the provision of the service does not necessarily have to be the responsibility of the State and the municipality. Private operators and non-profit organisations can demonstrate entrepreneurship responsibility here by competing for the producer role. Such competition will give a positive incentive to public service providers of the same services and also make it easier for public service providers to define price and quality requirements, as we also see today. Another key challenge will be the development of the target and performance management concept, where comparison between management bodies, so-called benchmarking, can be one instrument. Public agencies should thus be able to measure themselves against each other. When State activities are exposed to competition to a greater extent than before, the State will increasingly act as both the owner and the regulator. Such a combination of different roles and interests could call the country's credibility into question as an impartial authority. This may create conflicts because it must be a prerequisite for public and private enterprises to have a level playing field as far as possible. The State as a regulator must take care of general interests and set up regulations so that they apply to the State in the same way as to other actors. We therefore need to organise public activities in such a way that they have no other conditions in competition than non-public activities. In this context, it may be appropriate to consider whether one and the same department should be both the owner and the inspector. It may also be possible to distinguish the control activities of bodies which are not governed by the King or the Ministries. The government wants to use the whole country. As part of this, the State must go ahead in order to decentralize its activities. The relocation of public activities can contribute to the creation of creative environments while at the same time adding greater competence to the community. This can contribute to a positive development in the economically poor regions of the country. The government therefore wants to add more government tasks and functions to the districts. This includes both new tasks and the transfer of current tasks and functions from central to regional and local levels, i.e. to a level as close as possible to the user. A separate team of officials is set up to look at these issues. In this work, a test will test new solutions for interaction and response across administrative levels and geographical boundaries. In this context, new technology will be a powerful tool. Information and communication technologies shall be used systematically to reduce the distance between administrative units and to facilitate the execution in districts of a larger part of the response. The government will also look at opportunities for employees to be more likely to live outside the central strata. Keywords here are teleworking, remote office and more flexible working arrangements. Many municipalities and county councils experience that resources do not extend to them. It will be too little left to pursue policies after the central tasks have been carried out. In order to ensure local democracy, it is therefore important to work towards a better division of tasks between the different levels of government and to ensure an acceptable relationship between tasks and resources. It is important to avoid duplication of tasks between the different levels of administration. In a complex welfare country, there are no simple and definitive solutions to what to do. Therefore, a critical issue is whether the levels of government have a good role-sharing and effective forms of cooperation between management and decision-making. The Publicly Appointed Task Distribution Committee, which will give its opinion in a year's time, has as part of its mandate to propose a division of tasks between the levels adapted to today's challenges. But we also see the need to streamline the problem of government local and regional government. The scale of tasks must be proportionate to the resources made available. Increased use of IT is an important measure of efficiency that will help to improve this situation. Inter-organisational and geographical management tests are different. Furthermore, it is important to coordinate state control tasks with the local government sector as far as possible. In concrete terms, this means that the state agencies which currently have as their main task guidance/advice and control of the local government should normally be linked to the county office. The rapid transition in the world of work places new demands on the state's ability to adapt to flexibility. We need to find new solutions for cooperation and problem solving across levels of administration and sectors. Information technology provides opportunities for flexibility in the location of workplaces and for the organisation of the individual’s work situation. Making good use of these possibilities requires adaptation of the legal and contractual works, but not least the willingness to make use of the arrangements. Since our country is one of the most IT-intensive countries in the world, different applications of information technology characterise work processes, information processing and communication both in society, in business and in public administration. Therefore, the potential vulnerability to serious data problems will be high. Data problems occur daily in different contexts, usually without dramatic consequences. The special feature of the millennium is the potential for large-scale data problems across all sectors of society. Because the agencies are linked in networks, it is difficult to understand the consequences of the problems for the whole administration. Work on dealing with data problems at the turn of the millennium will also have more long-term, positive effects. The review of the computer systems and data equipment leads to a clean-up in many establishments, so that data operation becomes more efficient and that work strengthens the management of the vulnerability associated with the use of information technology, including in the long term. The public sector transition needs to be seen in a longer perspective than just a few years to come. The government has therefore embarked on a major work, called ‘Norway 2030’. The aim of the project is to strengthen the ability of management to adapt and to create a developmental response to long-term challenges. By 2030, oil production is expected to decline, but gas production is higher than today. Petroleum production will continue to play an important role in the formulation of Norwegian policies during the period. At the same time, we must assume that globalisation, migration and major technological changes have brought about a fundamental shift in the image of Norwegian society. Such changed assumptions will have an impact on the role of the public sector and on the working situation of government employees. We must therefore now raise all the questions that: How will the public sector be prepared to deal with the economic, social, political and cultural changes that will take place?For the current division of labour between the public and private sectors, it is appropriate for Norway as a society to be able to develop a solid continental economy in a timely manner?Is the current division of labour between the local, regional, national and supranational levels in the public sector such that it can meet such challenges? I hope that by 2030 the project Norway will be able to suggest possible answers to these and other relevant questions about the future of the Norwegian public sector. Today, we are seeing a development in which the private and public sectors are gradually approaching each other in several areas. Tasks previously performed by the public sector are privatised or put off for competition. We also see a stronger emphasis on efficiency and market mechanisms within parts of general government, both in terms of job performance and in terms of wage policy. This can only be affected by taking an active part in development, including: through the design of instruments. Personnel costs form a substantial part of the country's current expenditure. The use of workers’ resources is therefore of great importance. It is important to make measurable demands on employees, while at the same time providing the State as an employer with a good human resources policy that stimulates employees to do their best. I believe one of the main tasks of the government's employer policy is to enable us to recruit, develop and maintain skilled employees. At the same time, we are increasingly experiencing the need to redeploy or redeploy jobs in some sectors. The keyword for meeting these challenges collectively is competence, both in the workplace and in society. Because although the level of education is increasing, formal skills alone are no guarantee that individual workers can meet the migration challenges. The government’s reform of competence, which places high emphasis on continuing vocational training, will contribute to further raising the level of competence in society. We need to ensure that the reform ensures and stimulates the development of real competences so that individuals can apply their competences in new ways with new tasks and cooperation relations. I believe that the individual's ability to connect and apply acquired knowledge will increasingly be required in the future. It is also necessary to provide organisational support for the creation of good learning environments and for better use of the entire community's competence reserve. In this context, I must relate some comments to a not sufficiently exploited competence in central government. As we know, it works over 40 pst. women in our sector, but this is not reflected in the corresponding number of women leaders. The government therefore aims to significantly increase the proportion of women in senior management positions in the country from 22 p.m. onwards. from 1997 to 30 p.m. by the end of 2001. A number of measures have been taken to achieve this. This initiative is now starting to produce results. Reported figures from the departmental areas per year 1 January this year shows that we have come about halfway in relation to the objective. The public need for a wide range of competences is also updated by demographic developments. The government wants more disabled people and people with a migrant background in general government. In this area, the Government has taken an important step in the right direction: a separate action plan will ensure increased recruitment of immigrants to central government. We are also concerned about facilitating the development of our senior workers so that we can keep them as a resource any longer. I have no doubt that in the longer term these measures will have an impact on the quality of the response in the general state. As a result of the emergence of the community of competences and a tight labour market, we have seen concepts such as ‘knowledge nomad’ and ‘knowledge nomad’ emerge. Employees are the owners of the most important factor of production, namely competence, and carry it in and out of employment, depending on where the overall conditions are the most favourable at all times. This is not yet a widespread phenomenon, either in general or in the country. But as other things happen in the world of work, we are likely to have a development in which some groups of employees might wish for a more loose relationship with employers, even to a greater extent, to shape their working day. In order to compete for long-term labour, it is also necessary for the State to be able to respond to such challenges. If the State is to be able to compete for the most attractive labour force, we must have a staff policy that also meets the individual needs of employees in a good way. Needs, desires and opportunities change through the life and career cycle and in line with societal developments. We see this clearly in the context of the question of flexible working time arrangements. Recent studies show that the relationship with colleagues, management and development opportunities in the job means most for most employees. We also see good arrangements, including: in the case of working hours, means a great deal to recruit highly qualified women for managerial positions in the country. So far, the state has had a competitive advantage in this field. Wages and salaries are important in choosing the place of work, but are generally not the most important. There has been a trend towards increased flexibility in the country, particularly in terms of working time. Studies show that a significant proportion of workers can imagine increased flexibility in terms of working time and place of work. Active efforts are now being made to find ways to increase this flexibility in the country. Administration is complex and diverse, and staff mobility varies considerably between different types of enterprises. However, more mobility, including across departments and against the municipal and private sectors, is desirable. This increases migration preparedness while experience from several organisational cultures has a value in itself, both for the individual and for the business. I have concentrated on three key policy developments in the coming years: the active citizen with new demands, expectations and rights, a resilient and user-oriented management and an employer policy that ensures the necessary breadth and competence of the individual employee in the public sector. In the years ahead, we will face a public sector where change will become more natural than the status quo. As Minister of Employment and Administration, I have the search light at the very intersection of the public administration and the private sphere, whether it be in a public service office or on the Internet. It is in this meeting between the public and private sectors that the main challenges for a better quality public sector lie. The Declaration of Adults states that Norway should have a large public sector in order to ensure an equivalent offer across the country and that an offensive strategy is required to ensure this offer. In this presentation, I have shown how, through a wide range of instruments and actions, we have addressed this challenge and translated it into concrete and practical policy – a policy that includes user orientation, modernisation and efficiency, but perhaps first and foremost a real service promise to strengthen the individual’s confidence in public administration. Such trust must also be based on the competence and adaptability of public administrations. Because it is precisely trust that is the very prerequisite for a well-functioning public sector, in line with our administrative policy objectives!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e317	The President will propose that the Minister of Labour and Administration’s policy statement be discussed at a later meeting — and considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e327	The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has overall coordination responsibility for the management of the 2000 problem by the Government. According to the Government’s 2000 follow-up plan, half-yearly information is to be provided to the Stortinget. The first comprehensive statement was made in the State budget last autumn. I will now, on behalf of the Government, present the second statement. I will first explain the status of the year 2000 work and then present the Government's further plans. Year 2000 problems are due to the fact that date-related systems do not address the transition from one century to the next correctly. This may result, for example, in the failure of parking machines to function as normal. This and other similar problems could create irregularities and be annoying, but do not create danger to life, health, the environment or the economy. The consequences are far more serious if electromedical equipment in hospitals does not function properly. In central government, the 2000 problem is a line of responsibility, and must be solved by each department and each department. The Ministry of Labour and Administration is responsible for monitoring the 2000 problem in central government. In the last six months, there has been a stepping up of work in the various departments and departments. Central coordination measures have also been stepped up, including: intensified follow-up to work on the common system of State aid and close cooperation with all departments. I will elaborate three measures in central government: Firstly, there is a further focus on the role of State supervision in the year 2000 work. A legislative review has been carried out in cooperation with Action 2000, a monitoring of the department's supervisory management and a seminar for the Ministry and State Supervisory Authorities in February 1999. State supervision represents well-established channels of information and awareness raising. These should be used actively in the year 2000 work. For example, since 1995, the credit supervision has followed up banking and financial institutions, with circulars on reporting in the autumn of 1997 and a circular in December 1998, requiring supervisory units. Secondly, in December 1998, a quality review, or sample, of the status of the year 2000 was carried out in three state departments: the National Hospital, the Swedish Corn Industry and the Railway Agency. The aim was to complement the third status survey of the 2000 problem in central government in the summer of 1998 in order to provide indications as to whether it captures the real status. The work was carried out by an external audit team. For all three departments, the quality review revealed improvement points that the regular status reporting did not reveal. This gives a signal that the status reporting process does not necessarily give you the full picture. Thirdly, a fourth survey of the status of the year 2000 has been carried out in central government. Departments reported the status of their underlying offices to the Ministry of Labour and Administration on 29 January 1999. Compared to previous surveys, this shows that the year 2000 work is now given greater priority in most state enterprises. The survey includes states with more than 20 employees. The survey distinguishes between larger etats with more than 500 employees and smaller etats with between 20 and 500 employees. For the 225 floors captured, at the lower edge of one third were in the screening phase and a narrow quarter in the analysis phase, the calibration phase, and the test/start-up phase, respectively. The survey showed that about 80 pst. of the larger floors and close to 50 pst. of the smaller establishments had formalised plans for the year 2000. Virtually everyone who had such plans says that the work was done according to the plan. The survey showed that the higher levels of employment had been consistently higher than the smaller levels. Furthermore, emergency plans for data failures were found to be still lacking. Only 8 pst. of the larger and 6 pst. of the smaller agencies indicated that they had such plans. Many of the agencies said these are activities planned in the first half of 1999. General emergency plans were found at a number of sites. Monitoring showed that many establishments, especially among the smaller ones, had not earmarked funds for the year 2000 work. The cost estimates reported included approx. 30 pst. of all the floors, and included only in approx. one third of the case of equipment investment. Based on the same calculation method as at the previous survey, the total external costs in the country can be assumed to be approximately. DKK 2.4 billion. It's $0.9 billion less than the August 1998 estimate. This is largely due to the fact that the costs in the defence sector have been reduced. For many other agencies, especially the smaller ones, cost estimates and resource needs had increased. The Government assesses the status of the 2000 work in central government as follows: The year 2000 work is given high priority and attention. The recommendations for increased speed and resource efforts from the previous reporting round appear to be well followed.Furthermore, experts recommend that much of 1999 is mainly used for testing. This doesn't seem to hold for the vast majority of the floors. They are still working on the creation of systems or waiting for the installation of new products. Some state agencies may therefore come in severe short-term need towards the end of the year. End dates for 2000 projects from September to November 1999 appear to be relatively widespread. This gives very little space for possible delays. The status reporting does not give the full picture as mentioned. It tells a lot about how the problem is handled in the administration, but says, among other things. little about the quality of the work done. Furthermore, the control of progress in work is variable. More than half of the establishments have not defined milestones in the year 2000 work. This makes it difficult to establish whether the enterprises are on track for the year 2000 work or not. Statistical supervision also plays an important role in the remaining work. Based on the available material, the government believes that it does so per year. at present there is no imminent risk of critical failure in the basic services of central government. However, the risk of failure of important systems is not over. There is a considerable amount of work to be done, especially in relation to testing and implementation. The year 2000 action therefore needs to continue to escalate in central government. I will come back to this later in the presentation. In the municipal sector, regular line responsibility for the management of the 2000 problem applies. The municipal sector is at the heart of the 2000 context, including: because the responsibility for the tasks of the critical social sectors lies partly at municipal or county level, such as waterworks and hospitals. The government follows closely developments in the local government sector. We have established the Project Action 2000, where primary target groups are municipalities and small and medium-sized enterprises. Action 2000 shall be a year 2000 driver and contribute to the dissemination of information and training and skills. The nature of the year 2000 problem is such that the actors in the various sectors are partly faced with the same challenges, regardless of responsibilities and ownership. For example, Action 2000 has initiated projects involving different parts of the municipal sector’s responsibilities. Projects are closely interrelated and target actors, among others. in the water and discharge sector and in the health sector. I would like to mention that a joint project has been launched between the Municipality's Central Federation and Action 2000, called the Municipal Project. The municipal project focuses on activities towards municipalities. Important and critical services, such as hospitals, are organised in other projects under the auspices of Action 2000. An action in the Commune project is a national training offer further developed according to the needs of municipalities. It is trained, among other things: local ‘advisers’ in and from the municipal sector to initiate networking between municipalities in a region. A pilot community project has also been established to contribute to knowledge dissemination and knowledge transfer and provide a basis for networking. The pilot community project has shown that the challenges facing smaller municipalities will be manageable also for those who have started late. Own interactive community pages have been established on the Action 2000 website. Action 2000 carries out every two months the status measurement of the 2000 problem in small and medium-sized enterprises, municipalities and enterprises with important societal tasks. The first measurement was carried out in September/October 1998. The third and preliminary most recent measurement was in January/February 1999 and showed great attention to the 2000 problem in the municipal sector. All the municipalities in question considered the problem to be relevant to the municipality. Furthermore, 95 pst. by municipalities to identify the extent of the problem. It was a sharp increase from the first measurement. However, it is worrying that only 31 pst. by the municipalities had carried out tests on their systems and that each third of them found that operationally critical systems were not working. The fourth measurement is expected to take place in the first week of May. I would conclude that the year 2000 work in the municipal sector is still going too slowly, although a number of activities have been undertaken. Increased efforts by municipalities themselves are needed. The government will continue to focus on the municipal sector and cooperate closely with the Local Governments’ Central Association. In business, the responsibility for managing the 2000 problem lies with the manager and the board. Action 2000 cooperates with industry associations and interest organisations to facilitate good management of the 2000 problem in business. Large enterprises have generally come a long way in their 2000 preparations. Small and medium-sized enterprises have been reduced. According to the January/February 1999 measure of Action 2000, only half of the managers of small and medium-sized enterprises considered the 2000 problem to be relevant to them. This is alarmingly low. However, the result may be partly due to the fact that many small enterprises, for example, do not have data or production equipment. The measurement showed that there has been an increase from 36 pst. of the holdings at first measurement to 42 pst. by the third measurement which had started to organise the work. More enterprises than previously mapped at this time of the year 2000 problem. Only 26 pst. by the companies had carried out tests on their systems. It is worrying, as it turned out that every fourth company that had carried out tests found that operationally critical systems did not function during testing. The measurement showed that substantial work remained in small and medium-sized enterprises and that there is still a need for information measures to be taken to ‘remove’ managers. Action 2000 has taken a number of measures aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises since its inception in June last year. For example, a start-up package has been developed for the companies. Action 2000 launched a national ‘start-up now’ campaign targeting SMEs in November/December 1998. In March/April of this year, conducted an information campaign on radio and advertisements are printed in professional journals. Action 2000 has developed a practical year 2000 course offer for small and medium-sized enterprises across the country. The course has received a good response and is continuously developed according to the needs of the companies. In cooperation with several industry associations, concrete examples are being used to make the construction of 2000 projects visible and their content visible. A comprehensive investigation into legal issues has been carried out in the year 2000 under the auspices of Action 2000. It is working to make visible that existing legal rules and contracts must also be seen in relation to the 2000 problem. In the event of non-compliance or carelessness, rules can be broken and liability can be assumed in both the public and private sectors. For this reason, notes have been made relating to public sector liability, private sector liability, employers' rights and obligations, and the role and responsibilities of state supervisory authorities. The need for legislative and regulatory measures is continuously assessed by the Government. So far, we have not found it necessary to take new legislative and legislative measures in 2000. The government initially wants to mobilise efforts towards municipalities and businesses through positive measures. However, the government will not rule out the need for coercive action if the voluntary line does not lead to it. Departments are responsible for emergency measures within their own area of responsibility. The Ministry of Justice has a cross-sectoral coordination responsibility for the year 2000 preparedness. In accordance with the Government's follow-up plan, the Ministry of Justice received risk and vulnerability analyses from departments on 1 December 1998. These analyses are of the critical societal areas mentioned in the 2000 follow-up plan of the Government. The main purpose of the analyses is to provide a planning basis for the preparedness process. In this way, analyses in several key areas have helped to clarify the situation. In the analyses, the likelihood of failure of power and telecommunications supplies was assessed as low. However, it is not possible to guarantee this. Furthermore, according to the analyses, it was found that the safety concerns related to aviation and oil activities are unlikely to increase as a result of the 2000 problem. In most other critical areas, there is still considerable uncertainty in the analysis — not least the timely completion of projects. The analyses focus a lot on internal systems as a cause of vulnerability. There is too little focus on dependence on external infrastructure and supplies and interfaces. Countermeasures to this effect are even less affected. Some areas are currently missing from completed overall risk and vulnerability analyses. It concerns the water and sewerage sector, the transport sector, information transmission – TV and radio – fire services, nuclear preparedness and acute pollution. The departments responsible have been asked to provide risk and vulnerability analyses within the deadline of 15 May 1999. As regards the health sector, during February 1999, the Health Authority carried out a survey of the work of the local health service on risk and vulnerability analyses and related measures. This has been reported back to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. According to the survey, the situation in county, municipal and private health establishments is not satisfactory. In particular, there are significant gaps in the age institutions and municipal medical services, but also in the hospital sector. The government has challenged a stronger commitment from the top management level in municipalities and county municipalities to the year 2000 problem in the health and social sector — a new circular has been issued and health monitoring will follow up with a new monitoring. On the basis of the risk and vulnerability analyses, the Government will pay particular attention to developments in the telecommunications, power supply, banking and finance, oil and gas sectors as well as police and rescue services, because any problems in these sectors could have major ring-fenced effects. The government will also follow up on the food sector because this sector is vulnerable, among other things. hamstering. Risk and vulnerability analyses have, as mentioned, identified sectors The Government will follow closely, but there are also other sectors on which we will focus. For example, the water and sewerage sectors are central. This sector, together with the power and telecommunications sectors, is assumed to be the three most critical sectors. In the power and telecommunications sectors, thorough and systematic work has been carried out and actors follow the progress plans for their 2000 projects. The likelihood of failure in these sectors has been assessed as low. A number of activities have been undertaken in the water and sewerage sectors. Health surveillance has started to monitor the 2000 problem in the water supply sector and reports are expected to be delivered to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health early in May. Information has been prepared by the authorities on the problem area spread to waterworks owners. Local supervisory authorities will be asked to intensify the monitoring of the implementation of the necessary measures. For the sewerage sector, up-to-date risk and vulnerability analyses will be available in the near future and follow-up of the sector is intensified. Another important sector in which the Government is following developments is the health sector, which I have been briefed on earlier in the presentation. The Civil Protection Directorate has carried out a study on crisis management capabilities in the municipalities. This one shows, among other things: That only 37 pst. exercises have been carried out by the municipalities in the last two years. The Civil Protection Directorate has also obtained a new overview of the number of municipalities that have carried out risk and vulnerability analyses and plans for crisis management. Per. On 1 January 1999, more than half of the municipalities carried out analyses. This is an increase of 7 pst. from last summer. 15 pst. of the municipalities have not started working on analyses, while the rest say they are in a process of obtaining analyses. The numbers show that 39 pst. by municipalities have emergency plans, an increase of 5 pst. from last summer. The government records significant progress in the work of municipalities on risk and vulnerability analyses and crisis management plans, but a challenge in this work is that municipalities are not required to produce comprehensive vulnerability analyses and crisis management plans. The work has so far been based on clear calls, guidance, advice and support from the Directorate of Civil Protection and the State. This will be continued and reinforced in the future. In parallel, the Government is working to assess the need and possibilities for imposing a cross-sectoral obligation on municipal emergency planning. The seriousness of the 2000 problem and the remaining tasks will give the Government the necessary priority to the 2000 work. Each State Council is working on follow-up throughout its work area. It involves a follow-up to its own State institutions. The active substances vary according to the different levels of administration. The management of the 2000 problem is in reality two types of action. One is prevention, the aim of which is to help address problem areas in advance. The second is harm-remedy, where the aim is to be well prepared to deal with any problems that may still arise. Although intensive prevention work has been carried out, it will never be possible to guarantee that everything will function as normal at the turn of the millennium. It is therefore important to develop good preparedness in parallel with prevention. However, the main effort in the future must continue to be made in the prevention field. The Ministry of Labour and Administration has taken a number of measures to strengthen the central follow-up to the 2000 work of central government. This follow-up has continued with undiminished strength throughout 1999. Existing follow-up and coordination work in the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade will also be continued and intensified in 1999. The Government plans the following escalating measures: The Ministry of Labour and Administration ensures that all departments carry out quality reviews of their critical offices during the spring of 1999. Quality reviews shall identify any deviations from the regular reporting. Ministrys shall ensure, by August 1999 at the latest, regular status reporting, that milestone plans and contingency plans are available for their underlying establishments and that systems of significant importance for government response have been corrected and tested for 2000 errors. The aim is that the IT systems of state agencies should be compatible by the year 2000 by 1 October 1999. All departments are required to make more active use of the supervisory authorities in order to provide the best possible preparedness for the transition to 2000. In addition to the provision of information and awareness-raising, supervision shall also be used to give instructions and to take the necessary direct action in line with the current basis of reference to the activities in question and, if necessary, to initiate supervisory proceedings. This applies, inter alia, to: the health sector and the water supply sector, where there has been a circular from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, as well as intensified follow-up through the use of the supervisory system, and the sewerage sector, where the follow-up to the sector has already intensified. State supervision shall be used, if necessary, for direct intervention in line with the current legal basis and cooperation projects, inter alia. between the Municipal Communities’ Central Association, Act 2000 and the relevant establishments. During these days, the Ministry of Labour and Administration, in cooperation with Action 2000, organises a follow-up seminar on the supervision of departments and supervisory authorities. Precautionary information activities will escalate sharply during 1999. For example, during the spring, Action 2000 will carry out extensive information campaigns in specialist press, radio and television aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises and municipalities. Campaigns will be complemented with existing and new material to assist in particular small businesses.The driving activity towards industry associations will be stepped up. Cooperation projects with the Main Organisation of Industry, Trade and Service Industries, the National Organisation and Action 2000 will be continued and complemented. Risk and vulnerability analyses will be made available as a planning basis. The government recommends that departmental departments take greater account of the ring-effect issue in further work. When analyses and crisis plans are available, the Ministry of Justice will assess whether there is a imbalance in preparedness in society. Information preparedness will be prioritised and stepped up by the Government. The Government will develop common guidelines for information preparedness and promote other measures to ensure good coordination of external information before and during the turn of the year. These include: A recent coordination group was set up for the 2000 preparedness period. The government wants to further strengthen the role of the statesmen. This means that supervisory activities against municipalities are intensified and that, in consultation with other state authorities at county level, the county council will have a special responsibility to report on the status of critical areas in the county and to propose actions to central authorities. During the year, the population will implement approx. 100 emergency services in the municipalities where the focus will be on the 2000 preparedness work. The county officials will also report to the Ministry of Justice on the status of critical sectors in the counties several times during the autumn.The government will facilitate reinforced efforts to ensure the crisis management capacity of the counties and municipalities during the year 2000. This will be done through guidance and advice provided by the county councillors, the Municipal Council of Central and the Directorate of Civil Protection and the assessment of a planning obligation to ensure that municipalities make emergency plans. It will also take place through planned metropolitan exercises and top-level conferences. The above status review reveals that there are still some serious shortcomings in the management of the 2000 problem. The 2000 issue is therefore given a very high priority in the Government, both in the College as a whole and by the individual specialist councils.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e471	The President will propose that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade’s second statement on the management of the 2000 problem be discussed at a later meeting — and considered adopted. At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that matters be dealt with as follows: 3 and 4 are dealt with as a whole – and considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e494	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for the main speakers for each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for the other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and parliamentary leaders, as well as five lines with replies from members of the Government. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e501	Norwegian European policy is based on the outcome of the referendum, i.e. that we are not a member of the EU. However, regardless of whether we said yes or no, or what future ambitions we have in relation to the EU, we need to pursue an active European policy and take into account that the EU will expand with eleven countries from Central and Eastern Europe in the foreseeable future. We have to be on the agenda, so we don't always risk being confronted with complete facts. It includes intergovernmental and institutional agreements with the EU. In sum, the EEA Agreement, with the veterinary agreement and the Schengen Agreement, preserves our competitiveness, export rights to the EU for Norwegian fish, maintenance of Norwegian passport freedom, etc. These agreements are dynamic and flexible; they have institutional solutions, decision-making instruments and dispute settlements. We do not exercise the right of self-determination, and even if we do not have the full right to vote, we have significant influence within the scope of the agreements. Today, Stortinget is concluding the Schengen Agreement. On 9 June 1997, Stortinget concluded the Cooperation Agreement between Norway and Schengen on the substantive scope of participation in Schengen. The majority justified the need for Norwegian participation, inter alia: with the continuation of the Nordic passport union and the strengthening of European judicial cooperation to combat drug offences and other cross-border crime. At the Amsterdam Summit on 17 June the same year, Schengen cooperation was integrated into the EU. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Centre Party and the SV, agrees with the Government that a prerequisite for the continuation of the Nordic passport union is an institutional agreement between Norway, Iceland and the EU on participation in Schengen following the integration of the EU with the same scope as the Cooperation Agreement. The majority agree with all the Government’s assessments and conclusions, including: the absolute right of cancellation makes the agreement better than the cooperation agreement. Cooperation shall be based on international law. The cooperation does not empower the EU bodies in Norway, and the participation of Norway and Iceland in the decision-making process on the development of the Schengen acquis shall take place in a joint body with each EU Member State and the Commission. Cooperation shall take place at ministerial, official and expert level. In addition, the agreement opens up parliamentary cooperation. We have been confirmed by the Government that none of the rules adopted under the cooperation agreement involve any extension of the scope and that it does not require legislative changes. Many of the new provisions are the updating or clarification of older Schengen rules. The Government also underlines that Norway, through its observer status at all levels, has had a significant influence on the rules adopted following the conclusion of the previous agreement. May I stress that I respect those who, on a principle basis, do not wish to conclude intergovernmental and institutional agreements with the EU on cooperation in different sectors. It's okay. But it's not going to be okay when someone uses subversive arguments, scare propaganda, or direct untruths to fight for their vision. Among the more curious features of this round are No to the EU Road Code, distributed in Oslo on Saturday 10 April, where it is claimed that the Schengen Agreement means that we must all carry a Schengen ID card in Norway. Now I see that no to the EU leader is a representative today, and she may be able to explain why it was distributed. One of the most widely used arguments is that it takes away our national right to conduct our own asylum and refugee policy. This is a positive error. Both formally and effectively, we can accept just as many refugees and asylum seekers as we want, and we can accept whomever we want. Both the EU countries and Norway and Iceland are parties to the UN Convention on Refugees and the European Convention on Human Rights and undertake to accept people persecuted and oppressed in their country of origin. The Human Rights Convention has, moreover, decided a few days ago to incorporate Norwegian legislation. I would also like to refer to the Minister of Justice's letter to the Foreign Affairs Committee of the United Kingdom, dated 21 April, stressing that in ‘asyl or refugee-related matters, the Schengen Convention is limited to defining the procedures for clarifying which country is obliged to deal with an asylum application’. The extensive cooperation of EU countries in cooperation on refugee and asylum issues and the definition of the concept of ‘refugee’ are therefore outside the scope of Schengen cooperation. There has also been a debate on whether entry into Norway becomes more difficult legally with the Schengen Agreement. Apart from the fact that we are now working together in Europe on border control against third countries, the provisions will largely be the same as they are today. Section 27 of the Foreign Affairs Act that non-residents such as For example, there is a lack of funds to stay in Norway, which can be expelled, such as: be maintained. A foreigner shall also be involved in clarifying the content on entry today. Schengen cooperation is about external border control – about stopping those trying to get in illegally. In addition to comprehensive drug trafficking, organised human trafficking and illegal immigration may be the main cause of the need for increased European cooperation in the justice sector. Only in Italy have hundreds of people illegally come every night in recent years, and there are powerful mafia networks that govern, organize and hoard large sums of money at modern human smuggling, which also include trafficking women and children from Asia to European brothels. As regards the Schengen Information System, SIS, for the exchange of information under the Schengen Convention, it is a very restrictive system as regards the types of information that can be provided. And only the information necessary for the purpose of registration shall be included. But any register of personal data, whether Norwegian, Nordic or European, may threaten privacy, and it is important to tread carefully. The EU also has a data protection directive, such as: prohibits the registration of political affiliation, sexual orientation, religious and trade union affiliation, only to mention some areas. The Council of Europe also has a data protection convention to which all Schengen countries are bound. The Committee has asked the Minister of Justice whether Norway is itself free to determine the number of checkpoints at the border with third countries or whether the Schengen Convention imposes restrictions on Norway’s right of self-determination. The answer is crystal clear: there is no basis in the Convention for any Schengen or EU body to determine the number and location of border crossing points for external border control in Norwegian territory. Some uncertainties have been linked to the issue of control of fishing vessels from third countries. For Norway, this applies inter alia. Russian fishing trawlers transporting raw materials to the Norwegian fish processing industry. The Minister of Justice has made it clear that this is essentially what is happening today, under Norwegian legislation. It is Norway itself that determines where the authorised border points are to be located. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to ensure that there are no obstacles to the pursuit of business activities, and I am pleased that the Government has put the same principle into practice. Finally, any agreement between several parties must also be compromising. This Agreement shall also apply. However, it is better to have an institutional agreement with the EU on judicial cooperation with a relatively high degree of influence than to stand outside and have to deal with legislation that is still there. With this, I recommend the majority position of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e537	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e540	The Advocate General said that the majority is in agreement with all the rulings of the Government. I must remind you that it is clear from the proposition that the views of the Government and Government parties are deepened in the position underlying the 1997 reading, and that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in his statement to the Stortinget on 18 December last year, made it clear that the central parties' refusal to Schengen is a fundamental position that is solid. The rapporteur said that we do not give up any sovereignty. I want to take this up in relation to what is actually the Government's judgements, because there can hardly be any doubt that in terms of the cross-border police cooperation, it probably rocks this with the surrender of sovereignty. The proposition states that when a uniform foreign police force is to operate directly against individuals in Norway, it means: «a certain transfer to foreign police officers of competence to exercise administrative powers with direct effect in Norway»; at the same time, the Government states that «the exercise of police authority m m m affects the very essence of what has traditionally been understood by the «superiority» of States». My questions to the rapporteur are as follows: Does the rapporteur also share these assessments contained in the proposal? Has not the rapporteur at all stated that – with this indication of a waiver of sovereignty – it would, after all, have been best if this case had been dealt with under the Constitution § 93?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e556	With regard to the view of the Central Party on the question of using Section 93 of the Constitution, I have been through the previous debate this morning, and I have found that both in the previous debate and in today's debate the Centre Party is running on Section 93. But in the previous debate they also did something else. The centre party then stressed the need for an independent assessment of the Constitution. The Central Party’s own government – the Bondevik government – has done so. However, when the Government concludes that there is no basis for using the Basic Law § 93, the Centre Party takes the view that this paragraph should be used. I expect the representative Jakobsen in a later article to explain why this is done. So to the Constitution § 93. This paragraph can only be used when we are faced with international associations to which Norway is or is to join. We are not a member of the EU, nor do we become a member of the EU in this agreement. Therefore, we share the views and conclusions of the Proposition and the Government that it is the second paragraph of the Constitution that can be used here, rather than Section 93. On the issue of cross-border police cooperation, there will be talk of police officers and women from Sweden and Finland entering Norway in some cases, and I would like to emphasise in some very special cases. What Jakosen didn't say about, is that the proposition, on page 40, concludes that: ‘On this basis, the provisions of Articles 40 and 41 of the Schengen Convention on cross-border police cooperation – in isolation – are unlikely to prevent the procedure laid down in the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Basic Law from being used to conclude the Agreement.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e568	There was a lot one could address in the post of the case rapporteur, the representative of Nybakk. I want to focus first on what I think was the most alarming of what she said. It is about the claim that we conduct our own refugee and asylum policy and that it is not affected by Schengen. A number of legislative changes are therefore necessary because we are going to conclude this cooperation agreement. The laws have been out for consultation, and there is disagreement about their content. But what is agreed – with the police, with all the human rights organisations, with the Refugee Council, with the NOAS, with Amnesty – is that this leads to a more stringent asylum and refugee policy in Norway. Everyone who has worked on the legislative proposals agrees on the reality. Whether it is good or bad, there are different assessments of it. And I get a little upset when the representative Nybakk shows that there is a very important cooperation in Schengen on the control of the external borders, and then she uses, for example, the terrible human smuggling that is taking place, among other things. in Italy. And I agree with that: human smuggling, people cynically exploiting the desperation of others, we must fight. But it has not occurred to the representative Nybakk that one reason why a get so extensive human smuggling can be that the first asylum country is so alone with the burdens. It is not an agreement on burden-sharing in relation to accepting refugees, so they do not receive further provisions, and are then pressured into a strict policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e577	There is no doubt that Norway can pursue its own asylum and refugee policy with participation in the institutional cooperation on Schengen. It is also the case that the cooperation to be undertaken on asylum and refugee policy is a cooperation exclusively on procedural issues. We are, as I said in my speech, bound both by the European Convention on Human Rights and by other conventions that oblige us to accept people who are fleeing from oppression and abuse in their own country. Then I want to add that it is an advantage that we have cooperation in Europe on asylum and refugee policy. It is an advantage to have a certain distribution of burdens. It is an advantage that asylum seekers are not pushed to some countries, including the United Kingdom. to the east, as has also been pointed out in previous debates on Schengen. I also think it is important that we get to work together to ensure that there is no kind of trade in asylum policy and that we cannot walk from country to country. I don't think we're going to have any more restrictive asylum and refugee policies. I am absolutely sure that it is the Norwegian big thing to decide what kind of asylum and refugee policy we are going to have. I also believe that ghosts can be seen by the light of day if you believe that all asylum seekers will come to the country that has the most liberal asylum policy. But now I expect that the representative Lisbeth Holand doesn't think it does anything if we accept more refugees and asylum seekers than we have done before.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e588	The rapporteur pointed out – quite correctly – that in 1997 the Central Party asked for an independent assessment of the constitutional aspects of the Schengen Agreement. It is part of the story that this recommendation was rejected by a majority in Stortinget. I would also like to say that it serves the government to the credit that, as a follow-up to the Adultåsen document, it set up a reference group that has carried out an ongoing assessment of the issue along the way. But it is also part of the story that there is considerable doubt in this group. In the proposition, there are, among other things, Reference to the fact that several members of the reference group have concluded that Section 93 of the Constitution is applicable and may be an alternative to the use of the second paragraph of Section 26. I understand that the rapporteur may not have the greatest confidence in the opinion of the Central Party on this issue. Well, it's got to be. However, I would like to refer to what Professor Erik Boe has said about this issue in the annex to the proposition, where he is also concerned with the fact that there is now a new Schengen Agreement, which binds Norway to great ambiguities in relation to EU relations. He says that it is. ‘creates constitutional doubt that we do not yet know how the Schengen Agreement will be enforced and how much will actually be determined through EU internal processes compared to what will happen in the new Joint Body.’ Does not the case-rapporteur think that this doubt should be expressed – I kept saying – according to a precautionary principle, and that this should imply that Section 93 of the Stortinget laid the foundations for its handling of such an important and comprehensive case?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e600	First to the future acquis: both documents and replies from the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Justice indicate that the border crossing between the EU acquis and the Schengen acquis is clearly clear. So to the Basic Law § 93: The Proposition concludes that the Basic Law § 93 is not applicable, and it does so on the basis of a total assessment, although there are some nuance differences between those who have assessed this on a legal basis. However, among other things: Paragraph 93 shall apply only if the decisions of the international association have an effect under international law on Norway. I believe – as the Government also stresses in all documents – that this is not the case. The Schengen Agreement will have no effect on Norway under international law. I have registered that the Central Party, in its observations, almost claims that the institutional agreement with Schengen provides both authority and authority from the legislative/basic legislative authority and the executive authority in Norway. However, the proposition concludes that the Schengen Agreement does not confer competence to legislate, it does not involve the transfer of judicial powers or the transfer of powers to oblige Norway to do so under international law. Therefore, the Government concludes that the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Basic Law is to be used, and we have joined it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e609	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e613	I do not really have much to add to what the rapporteur has said. I think she has explained the majority's point of view in an adequate way. I just want to refer to what was said by us when the material content of the agreement was dealt with here in Stortinget. The central point from the point of view of the Progress Party is the purpose of the agreement, what one really wants to achieve. We think that is very important, and we realize that these objectives can only be achieved through extensive international cooperation, which is currently only possible in so-called homogeneous countries that exist in Western Europe. Illicit immigration and trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking, international terrorism, and so it is more positive to maintain passport freedom in the Nordic region. A negative feature of the new agreement is that we are excluded from the bodies that actually make decisions based on the agreement. It is a retreat, but it is a consequence of its transfer to the EU bodies. The EU maintains the position that non-EU countries do not have access to EU decision-making bodies, which is very understandable in view of the already difficult decision-making process in the EU. When this really does not bother us so much, it is because we have very difficult to imagine that, under the Schengen Agreement, so many decisions can be taken that will lead to significant adverse effects on Norway. The decisions in question are limited to the extent of their intended purpose. We don't think there can be so many dissenting views of how to best achieve stopping this criminal business. Then some counter-conceptions were claimed, based on fine interpretations of the sovereignty of the states. But I think we have to realize that international crime is to be overcome, it is not possible to do this effectively without countries giving sovereignty to some extent to the bodies that have been tasked with solving these problems. That's what I think is a very practical and natural view in an internationalized world, and then putting on this concept of sovereignty, seems a little old-fashioned to me. As far as asylum and refugee policy is concerned, I think it is beneficial that there be some coordination of this policy in Europe. There has been some discussion as to whether the Schengen Agreement will lead to a more restrictive policy on refugees and asylum in Norway. I am not going to take a stand on that, but in the event that it leads to a more stringent policy, the Progress Party has nothing against it either.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e628	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e631	No, I remember from 1997 that the Progress Party justified its support for the agreement that it became a reinforced wall against refugees. It is also confirmed today. I would like to ask two questions to the representative, Gundersen. He said that he also agreed to the agreement to maintain passport freedom in the Nordic region. I see Gundersen as a representative who is willing to go into an open debate, and then I will ask him: If we had said no, does he believe that Sweden would have taken on the costs of building a wall against Norway? Göran Persson says it is a political and economic impossibility. Does the representative, Gundersen, think we've got such a wall? That's the one question. Secondly, I would like to take the old-fashioned point of view, namely the question of national sovereignty. And then I wanted to ask the representative Gundersen how he views the Government's choice of decision-making, which rules he would use. Of the lawyers who were appointed to assess the matter, it is only one who sees the use of Basic Law Section 26 as being of little concern. All the others say in varying ways that the decision would have greater political and constitutional legitimacy if one had chosen to use the Basic Law § 93. What is the representative of Gundersen's assessment of the Government's choice of Section 26?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e640	As for the first question, which is purely hypothetical, what Sweden would have done, if Sweden had actually undertaken to build this wall, as it is called, against Norway if Norway would not join, it is impossible for me to have any opinion about it. It's a situation that didn't happen. It's very possible that they wouldn't accept it, we don't ignore it. As far as national sovereignty is concerned, it is absolutely impossible to enter into such a state-law debate here. In any case, I just want to say what my view of the Basic Law is, that I think it is very important to take care of the Basic Law provisions for the protection of the individual. With regard to the relationship between state powers, what needs to be adopted and in what forms, the relationship between government and enlargement and all of these things, I think that within reasonable limits, a large number of people must be able to interpret the Constitution relatively freely. It is also very difficult to bring such constitutional questions before our courts; we do not have a constitutional court. So I draw a pretty sharp distinction between individual rights protected by the Constitution, and now also by the Human Rights Act, and the issues of competence under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e649	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e652	The position of the Christian People's Party on the Schengen cooperation as such has been fully explained in the inner East. S. No 229 for 1996-97, from May 1996, on the question of opening negotiations with the Schengen countries on a cooperation agreement between Norway, Iceland and the Schengen countries. Like the other centre parties, the Christian People's Party is also opposed to the Schengen cooperation. The justification can be briefly summarized from the setting, for example. privacy considerations, the desire to continue the national border control as we know it today, and the fear of increasing international crime, to mention some important keywords. In addition, there were great opportunities for the Schengen Agreement to be integrated into EU legislation, which has since also proved to be implemented. We considered this undesirable. However, the majority of the population decided that Norway should be included in such negotiations. When the Cooperation Agreement of 19 December 1996 was discussed in the Grand Duchy in June 1997, the Christian People's Party voted against the ratification of the Agreement. Just after a particular EU Member State integrated the Schengen cooperation into EU legislation, there was therefore a need to renegotiate the cooperation agreement with a view to resolving the institutional issues related to this change in the formal status of the Schengen Agreement in the EU system. All of these conditions are well explained in the proposition that we have to deal with here today. The rapporteur has also given a clear and straightforward presentation of the various stages of the negotiations and the case, so that the Christian People's Party has been able to join the rapporteur's proposals for comments on all points. The Government underlines its primary position in relation to the Schengen Agreement in its proposal. At the same time, the Government has also acted on the wishes of the majority of the population for an agreement with the Schengen countries. The Ichland Government had already started preparations for negotiations with the EU on institutional solutions following the Treaty revision in Amsterdam in June 1997, where Schengen cooperation was integrated into the EU. It was therefore already necessary, during the negotiations between the centre parties on the Adult Bar, to clarify how a central government would deal with the continuation of these negotiations. The Adult Document states that a central government will take responsibility for carrying out such negotiations based on the decision of the majority of the population, and this was also included in the Bondevik Government’s Declaration of Accession. Christian People's Party supports the Government's proposals and conclusions. For my part, I believe that it is not now natural to discuss the issue of Schengen cooperation as such, but to focus attention on whether the negotiated agreement is, firstly, within the mandate of the people's no to the EU in November 1994, and, secondly, whether the agreement as a whole is satisfactory in terms of ensuring important Norwegian concerns and interests, given the premise of the majority of the population. Our conclusion is positive on both of these points. With regard to the issue of the international and constitutional status of the agreement, I would point out that the Government was subject to this important issue of special treatment by appointing a separate reference group of five legal experts to assess in particular the relationship with the Constitution and whether a general majority would be sufficient for an approval. As you know, there was a concerted view in the reference group that the agreement could be approved under the Basic Law, Section 26, i.e. the general majority, although there were different views in the reference group on several other issues based on different assumptions and assessments. In this context, there is reason to stress that the substantive content of the agreement has not been negotiated, only on the institutional solutions in which the new agreement replaces the old cooperation agreement. The Christian People's Party is satisfied with the agreement on the basis of the framework and assumptions underlying the negotiations. We have focused, among other things, on: the following conditions: The new Schengen Agreement does not confer any formal powers on the EU Court of Justice or the Commission in Norway. Several issues relating to the termination of the Agreement have been adequately addressed and improved in relation to the provisions as they were designed in the Cooperation Agreement. However, it must be admitted that we are here at one of the core points of the agreement. The right to say no or yes is unequivocally stated, but there is no reason to hide that when the option to say no is that the whole agreement can be terminated by the EU, that freedom of choice is still clearly limited. Furthermore, there is agreement to establish parliamentary cooperation linked to the Agreement. We consider that to be a clear advantage for the follow-up of all aspects of this agreement. Furthermore, a joint body shall be set up to meet Norway, Iceland and the EU on a regular basis. This gives us the opportunity to continuously address important issues related to the implementation and continuation of the contract. There have been no changes to the Schengen acquis since December 1996 which require changes to the law of us. Nor have there been any proposals extending the scope of the agreement. In total, this means that the agreement which the Government is asking for consent to approve has taken into account fundamental and important factors relevant to Norwegian interests. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government has done a good job in line with the Storting's assumptions and decisions. We therefore believe that the Government has good coverage to claim that: ‘the agreement presented is as good as possible when taking into account the framework of the negotiations and the different starting points of the parties’. Of course, it is not difficult to agree that it could be desirable with less time pressure in the case, so that for example. the relevant legislative changes that must be implemented by reason of the agreement could be presented at the same time as the text of the agreement is now dealt with here in the Stortinget. It has therefore not been possible to achieve this due to the deadlines set by the implementation of the Schengen Agreement by the EU. In my view, however, the various aspects of the agreement have been so thoroughly investigated by the Government that I believe the matter is being dealt with satisfactorily here in Stortinget. I then stress what I referred to earlier, that no new rules have been adopted in the Schengen cooperation since December 1996 which trigger the need for legislative changes in Norway, and that none of the new rules will imply any extension of the scope of the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e690	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e695	Up to now in the debate, we have heard twice that the central parties are firmly opposed to Schengen. “Policy is often a balance, and some balance better than others. – But when the central parties so clearly underline this, it could put the government in a slightly strange light, because this government has just left these games. One thing is that the government has agreed to and interested in following up the negotiation that was going on, another thing is the proposition with the conclusions and recommendations that lie there. The 14 questions asked to the Government in this matter have also been answered and – it looks like – without shaking on the hand and with very clear leads. Does the representative Steensnæs believe that the Government has presented an attitude to the Stortinget that it is not really behind?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e704	If the representative of Engebretsen listened carefully to my post – I hope he did – he would not be in any doubt about my answer. Of course, the Christian People's Party is fully behind what the Government has presented, it emerged from my post. If it wasn't because I knew Kjell Engebretsen so well, I would almost have thought that he had a pre-written, sharp line to me, which probably wasn't the basis for speaking. Let me say from the point of view of the problem that when we are against Schengen, but still stand behind the Government's proposal to approve the agreement, it is no different from what applies, for example. in relation to the EU, where it is known that all government parties are opposed. Two of the parties are in favour of the EEA Agreement, but there is no problem for us in asserting Norway’s interests as the majority of the population have done. I am sure that with the clear answers given by the Government – and with the assurances I myself believe to have expressed in my speech – the Government will follow up the Schengen Agreement on all points, so that the Norwegian interests in the implementation of the Schengen Agreement are best safeguarded.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e711	Actually, I'm a little sorry, because a great opportunity for a debate on what this really is about has failed. In the past, no-parties have agreed to believe that it is the small steps without calling for a referendum that have been a yes-side tactic to adapt to the EU. So Steensnæs says that he is quite sure that the Schengen Agreement is within the mandate of the people. The content of the Schengen Agreement was absolutely central to why many said no in the referendum. Schengen is part of the development of the Union. That agreement prevents us from pursuing an independent refugee and asylum policy. The aim is to build a fortress against the Third World, and it is about the establishment of a European control system and a coercive mechanism that threatens privacy, legal certainty and democracy. And then I expected the government to use that space of action, the two years that have gone by, to inform me of what the agreement is about, so that it would have been possible to mobilize against the agreement, raise an opinion against the agreement, and that it does not hide behind the large majority in this way. Secondly, for the Christian People's Party, it has been important to pursue a more humane refugee and asylum policy. That was also one of the reasons why the Christian People's Party said no to the Schengen Agreement. Now that all the hearing bodies agree that this agreement makes it easier to expel unwanted persons, why have not the Christian People's Party really taken up the fight, why have they not done so, for example. as Sponheim has done in relation to IT Fornebu – he has been standing upright and taking up the fight? Why has not the Christian People’s Party done so? There are many who call it a betrayal, and I quite agree that it has been a betrayal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e718	I understand that the representative, Mr Ågot Valle, is disappointed, and it may well go a little further than disappointment when she – without the president’s charge – uses the word ‘disgusting’. I believe we have not failed, we have taken a fight over the Schengen Agreement. That fight was in the Stortinget in 1996. Then we clearly expressed our objections, and if Ågot Valle wanted to take the break, she could read it quite detailed and well-founded position as a Christian People's Party there along with other no-party came along. The fight for the Schengen Agreement was held in 1996, and I have no sense of rematch. But I can agree with Ågot Valle on information, that people will know what this is about. But that responsibility cannot be left to the representative Ågot Valle either on the Government or on the Christian People's Party; it must be shared by Ågot Valle with everyone else who had the same position initially – both with the no-movement and with SV for that part. With regard to the basis of international law, the Bondevik government was very careful to do so. Despite the lack of understanding of the need in Stortinget, the government put down a commission of five outstanding legal experts to assess critically whether it was necessary to deal with this agreement under the Basic Law Section 93, or whether one considered Section 26 to be sufficient. As I said in my post, the answer from this expert committee was clear, even though premises and nuances about how far towards the boundaries of the Basic Law one here moved were assessed somewhat differently. Then Ågot Valle also refers to refugee and asylum policy. Yes, we are in agreement with SV on important positions on refugee and asylum policy, but this is not affected by the Schengen Agreement. I refer you to the answer the Minister of Justice has given to the Stortinget on question No. 6, where it has been explained in detail that we are maintaining our independent policy in this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e733	I must say that I do not understand the Christian People's Party here. I am pleased to receive an answer from the representative Steensnæs. Here he starts by quoting the 1997 decision and points out that one of the reasons for his opposition was the danger of the agreement being integrated into EU legislation. And then it becomes, and then he's all of a sudden for the deal. Yes, he's not for it – no, because they said that in 1997. But the government is putting forward a proposition where a goes in for it. And I'm kind of wondering, what's the point of sitting in government? The majority of the population have ordered the Government to renegotiate the agreement. That's what the big number of people can do; I fully understand that. But the bulk of the population doesn't decide what the government's purpose is, what it's going to present to the Storting, it's the government that decides. And since 1997, the agreement has thus been integrated into the EU, as the current government parties opposed. One also went against because of refugee and asylum policy. And all the hearing bodies say it gets tighter, it showed you were right. Then one goes against because of privacy considerations, and there are the hearing opinions very sharp. And one even commits the same blunder as an accused Labour Party for 1997, one presents the case for treatment without being adequately illuminated, among other things. are not presented with the necessary legislative changes. What kind of damage would it have done if we had waited for maybe the three weeks that one needed to bring about the changes in the laws? Was there any meeting you were not allowed to attend? What kind of damage would have happened to Norway? The laws had been passed on to the hearing on 1 September, why hasn't someone brought them forward? Did one not want the Storting to be familiar with all the critical remarks that came?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e738	I don't understand the Christian People's Party, says the representative Lisbeth Holand. I think I'll get the receipt and say that I understand very well the representative Lisbeth Holand, because she is now trying to create a ambiguity about the position of the Christian People's Party by mixing together the wonderful things that we really have to deal with here. I have said in my speech – and it is also quite clear in the comments – that with regard to the starting point of the Schengen Agreement as such, the Christian People's Party had a well-founded view of the Schengen Agreement. What we're dealing with here is not the material content – I don't know how many times we're going to repeat it – but it's the institutional framework that's now to be put in place because, after the decision of the Storting, the EU chose to move the Schengen Agreement into EU legislation in Pillar I and Pillar III. It triggered the need for an adjustment to the agreement, which the government of Jagland began to prepare, and which the three cooperation parties had to assess how they would behave before they even sat down in the government offices. Therefore, it was subject to a separate assessment, in which it was repeated at the Adult House that the three central parties opposed the Schengen Agreement, but they take responsibility for negotiating and continuing the negotiations that go exclusively on institutional relations, which have nothing to do with material content. This has been explained in detail by the Government, and I have also quoted that there is no material substance in this, there is no decision in the Schengen cooperation that triggers new legislative decisions, and there is no decision in the Schengen cooperation that extends the scope. All of this makes it exclusively a matter of whether we want to take responsibility for the negotiations on institutional content. And in terms of information – that this will not be adequately illuminated – I will refer to my reply to the representative, Ågot Valle.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e747	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e750	The right had two main objectives when we agreed in the spring of 1997 to Norwegian relations with Schengen cooperation. 1) Increasing international crime meets with increased international cooperation. The current boundaries of police barriers could be used strategically by criminals to avoid criminal prosecution. That international crime is an increasing problem for Norway and Europe is raised beyond doubt. Drug trafficking, money laundering, illicit arms trafficking, terrorist acts, the smuggling of radioactive material, trafficking in human beings and organised theft and related acts of violence are increasingly affecting citizens in all countries. However, they represent challenges that the national State cannot solve alone. Schengen cooperation will be the best regulated police cooperation Norway has ever participated in and will allow us to fight crime more effectively. That is why this was also the main argument of the Right to say yes to the agreement in spring 1997. 2) Maintaining the Nordic passport union has been the second important objective of the Schengen Agreement for the Right. The Nordics have had passport union for over 40 years. Schengen cooperation gives us the opportunity to continue this, and to extend the area of passport freedom to EU countries with which we have extensive relations. It provides benefits for business as well as for individuals. These two main objectives have not become less topical since the last Grand Duchy dealt with the Schengen issue – rather the opposite. Firstly, the EU countries have put the fight against international crime higher on the agenda. Integrating Schengen cooperation in the EU will facilitate more effective cooperation on border control, asylum policy, police cooperation and the fight against crime. The new Treaty of Amsterdam foresees an upgrade of the importance of this cooperation and an improvement of Europe's ability to combat international crime. Cooperation shall take place both in the context of transnational cooperation in Pillar I and in Pillar III, where the decisions are of an intergovernmental nature. Secondly, Sweden, Denmark and Finland have ratified the Amsterdam Treaty and will participate in the Schengen cooperation through the EU institutions. Without an agreement to participate in Schengen, these countries would be obliged to build up external border controls against Norway. It is important to stress that passport checks and not customs controls disappear in Norway with the Schengen Agreement. Because Norway is not part of the EU customs union, we retain customs control. It is in customs, not in passport control, that smugglers are taken. The fight against, inter alia: Therefore, drugs are strengthened, not weakened, through the Schengen Agreement due to more effective cooperation between different countries’ police and customs. In particular, there were two arguments against approving the Schengen Agreement which was central to the current government parties in 1997. On the one hand, it was the relationship with the Constitution. Anne Enger Lahnstein stated that the bulk of the population missed democratic rules laid down in the Constitution. Kjell Magne Bondevik had ‘rarely seen any case of such a dimension which is so superficially discussed on the constitutional issues’. The second main argument was that the case should be postponed until the EU had completed its revision of the Treaty basis, as it was time to integrate the Schengen cooperation into the EU. Today, the central government, with Bondevik and Lahnstein in central positions, recommends the agreement with the EU on a new institutional link to the Schengen cooperation. The presentation of this proposition involves a gigantic turnaround in relation to the positions of the current government parties in 1997. Today, the government believes that it is constitutionally sustainable to approve the agreement under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution – just as the majority of the population arrived at after careful treatment and hearings in the previous round. The Government considers that such a procedure is constitutionally sound despite the fact that Schengen cooperation has now entered into EU cooperation and parts of it will take place in Pillar I, which has supranational features. They bring the matter before the Stortinget before the Stortinget has made all the legislative changes resulting from the agreement, and before the Stortinget has been presented with all the legal, economic and administrative consequences of the agreement. Government parties thus grant the majority right from 1997 that it was constitutionally sustainable to approve the agreement by a normal majority — in 1997 as today. The agreement did not involve the transfer, either in 1996 or now, of powers to an international association which may take decisions directly affecting persons in Norway. The government indicates in the proposition that the new institutional solution negotiated is better than the relationship we had. If Norway decided not to accept a new act, the previous cooperation agreement provided for the automatic start of a process to terminate the agreement. The new agreement with the EU gives the Joint Body 90 days to find a common, agreed solution if Norway does not accept new legislation. This result assures me that the majority was also right in 1997, when we just underlined the benefits of being associated with the Schengen cooperation before the EU concluded its negotiations on the Treaty basis in Amsterdam. It has strengthened Norway's negotiating position, and it has given us the opportunity to influence the development of Schengen cooperation in important areas, including: with regard to data protection controls. For example, the Chairman of the Data Protection Authority, Georg Apenes, has been able to participate in the Joint Supervisory Authority, the Supervisory Body of the Schengen Information System – SIS. In addition, the Government itself stresses that we have had a strong influence on the legislation adopted since 1996 through our observer status in the Executive Committee. The proposition indicates that our form of association also has its limitations: the agreement requires that the further development of some parts of the legislation be reserved to EU countries. It is natural, as stated in the proposition, that the EU wants some flexibility if developments lead to this cooperation becoming more central in EU cooperation. However, the agreement states that the EU has a duty to inform the Joint Body of the preparations in the Council of any measures or acts that may be relevant to the agreement. The agreement also requires Norway to be able to conclude further agreements with the EU in relevant areas. That's right-wing satisfaction. There is other reason to give the Government credit for the negotiated result in the institutional area. There is also a broad majority in favour of the Government's recommendation in the case. Only the Center Party and SV are in favour. And the Central Party is not more clever than they also come up with open criticism from the Government for having indulged in putting the matter ahead of the Storting. But true enough, the Storting has been under heavy time pressure; therefore, all praise to the case rapporteur Nybakk, who has shown a cleanness and thoroughness that makes the Right nevertheless feel confident that the matter has been properly clarified and assessed when the Stortinget is today invited to consent to the submitted agreement with the EU. The most eye-catching thing in this case is that the centre party, with its way of dealing, is helping to weaken the whole foundation of the central government. The Proposition refers to the Declaration of Adults and the Declaration of Accession, which states that the central parties are opposed to Norwegian membership of Schengen, but that they nevertheless undertake to negotiate institutional solutions based on the decisions of the majority of the population. The centre party today relates to these basic documents of the Government according to the cafeteria principle – it is certainly by its own people to have it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e802	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e805	I must remind the representative Frost Sterri that it is clear from the documents that the government parties are in principle opposed to Schengen, and that the government has carried out a mission given by the majority of the population. I want to go back a little bit to what's going on with the procedure, because Frost Sterri may not have overlooked that, for example. In fact, the data protection system, as she mentioned in another context, has been very critical of the entire Schengen concept and has stated that it is unfortunate that the registration of persons can be done on the basis of so-called discretionary criteria. She must also have recorded that the Norwegian Association of Lawyers has had critical views on this. Nor could Frost Sterri have passed the fact that a professor of law, Eivind Smith, has stated that: ‘Schengen is a disaster constitutionally, even worse than the EEA. We only have to accept something that is determined outside Norway’s borders, or three out of the entire agreement.’ And again, I would refer to jus professor Erik Boe, who said that it would ‘strengthen the constitutional legitimacy of the decision of the Storting is taken by a 3⁄4 majority’. My question is, Where does Right Constitutional Conservatism go? Or is it that the expectation that Schengen will become an important part of the further development of the Union overshadows the expected constitutional conservatism of the Right? And when Frost Sterri referred to Sweden and Finland, it must also be mentioned that both Sweden and Finland have chosen to present these matters to their parliaments in accordance with the strictest constitutional requirements, i.e. have done exactly what the Central Party and the SV have proposed in this position.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e819	The representative Jacobsen found reason to remember that the government has carried out a mission. I also pointed that out. As I said, it is clear from both the Declaration of Adults and the Declaration of Accession of the Government how they are, in principle, in relation to Schengen membership. But despite that, they have accepted to base the majority's decision and negotiate institutional solutions. And that is where the centre party is failing today, not in relation to the majority of the population, but in relation to its own government, because the centre party was also involved and discussed this – and I assume that they are on the Waxenå Declaration and that they will also support the Government's Declaration of Accession. But that's what they today with all the transparency show that they actually don't, they now obviously just want to pick out the parts that fit the center party. What they are actually involved in is undermining the whole foundation of having a continued central government – this as a warning, if not Johan J. Jakobsen’s earlier thoughts about that reality. Otherwise, I have very well followed in the debate on privacy issues, and I look forward to the fact that when we receive legislative proposals for discussion in Stortinget, we are going into this very carefully. It should also be interesting to see what assessments the Government will make on the basis of the consultation rounds that have been out, because there is something important for the Right, it is precisely to safeguard privacy. Otherwise, I think it speaks for itself when Jacobsen accuses Right of not showing great enough decency to the Constitution. It is enough just to refer to the government's own appointed reference group, which concludes with what we are doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e828	We're not going to have a rematch from 1997, it's still been repeated here. But, in fact, it was – it was clearly stated in the 1997 vote – that if the Schengen Agreement was integrated into the EU, our agreement would be lost. This means that we have a new case to deal with, and that the Storting can deal with the entire agreement. And it's very regrettable that we haven't made the changes to the laws. When the representative Siri Frost Sterri refers to the fact that privacy is extremely important to the Right, it must be important to see all the objections that have been raised against the acquis that one will have to adopt if one first enters Schengen. But then both the Government and the majority of the population choose: first we adopt Schengen, then we take the legislative changes afterwards. I want to use an example. The representative Siri Frost Sterri says that the Right enters Schengen because they want to combat increased international crime. Fighting increased international crime, I think, is a common cause for everyone in the Chamber. But are you going to use Schengen for that? It turns out that about 90 pst. by those registered there are registered because they are unwanted foreigners or because of political activity. We have examples of people expelled from the entire Schengen area because one has participated in demonstrations. And then the law commission in the Law Association says that these are measures and instruments that stand far from the democratic traditions that we in Norway like to confess to. Doesn't this representative worry Frost Sterri and Right? Where does the credibility of the privacy exposure become if it doesn't worry?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e837	It must be based on a recollection failure if Lisbeth Holand believes that the Stortinget assumed that if Schengen cooperation became an integral part of the EU, a full review of the entire agreement would be necessary. What the government has underlined is that the realities that we made our position in 1997 are unchanged, and there are only minor adjustments that have been made afterwards. As a result, the Stortinget Government also gave a mandate to and commissioned it – for it was known at the time the agreement was discussed that this could happen, although it was uncertain – to negotiate and continue participation in Schengen even after this cooperation was put into place within the EU institutional framework. So now that the government has made it clear that what they've been negotiating is institutional solutions, it's primarily what we should be discussing, and not taking a real fight over the whole Schengen case as such. Could the reason why the Centre Party and SV are more concerned with the rematch today be that the institutional solutions now negotiated are actually better than the ones we had when the Stortinge dealt with this matter in 1997? There is good reason to ask whether that is why they are concentrating all their efforts today on combating Schengen, despite the fact that that decision is in fact firm.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e842	It is clear that when Schengen was integrated into the EU, the agreement fell away. Then it's up to the government and biging if you want to process it again. The government took on the task of negotiating an agreement with the EU, but it was free to present the entire agreement for treatment in Stortinget if it so wished. But what I noticed now was that the representative Siri Frost Sterri did not at all make the slightest attempt to answer my question, which was about privacy. I can use a concrete example, which is probably also known to the representative Frost Sterri: Stephanie Mills, the activist from Mururoa who was going to a meeting in the Netherlands to plan actions against the nuclear bombing in India and Pakistan. She was stopped at the border because she was registered in the SIS, because France perceived her as a threat to public order and security. And so she was excluded from entry into the Schengen area. If she had known this in advance, she could of course have applied for a separate entry visa for that meeting in the Netherlands, but she did not know that. Does the representative, Frost Sterri, want us to join a system where political activism is considered a threat to public order and security, and where there is a risk of exclusion from all over Western Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e852	I perceive that Lisbeth Holand might have had a little bit of difficulty prioritising, for she made a lot of claims in her first line. So it was good that it was limited to privacy issues in this other line. However, as Lisbeth Holand may also be aware, questions have been asked by the Committee to the Minister of Justice whether Stephanie Mills would have been refused entry to Norway if Norway had practised the Schengen acquis in 1998. The Minister of Justice then said that the Department did not have sufficient insight into this matter to comment on this specific case. Obviously, this must be a poorly chosen example. Or is it perhaps that SV knows this matter better than the department, so well that they know about the real reasons why she didn't let in? I also think that Lisbeth Holand should read the rest of the answer that comes from the Minister of Justice, because it is clear that it will still be up to Norway to decide whether to enter Norway. At the same time, however, we cannot decide on the free entry of the entire Schengen area. It's something quite different.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e861	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e864	Once presented with a new Schengen Agreement, the Stortinget has the context in which Schengen cooperation, as a consequence of the Treaty of Amsterdam, has become part of the EU. The proposal shows that the views of the central parties on the Schengen cooperation have been deepened in the suspension of the cooperation agreement discussed by the Stortinget in 1997. In its statement on the negotiations with the EU on Schengen, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs gave to Stortinget on 18 December last, the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed that: ‘The Government’s principal view of Schengen, as expressed in the Adult Declaration, is established.’» And it cannot be possible that highlighting this point of view in this debate should be to undermine the confidence of, or weaken the basis of, the Government, as we heard instead. However, in the Declaration of Accession, the Government stated that the bulk of the population wanted negotiations with the EU on a new institutional agreement. Within the limits of the given framework and assumptions, the Government has carried out this task in an excellent manner. Because the substantive content of Schengen has not been negotiated, the new Schengen Agreement – in the opinion of the Centre Party – remains obsessed with the same weaknesses as the cooperation agreement that was dealt with by the Stortinget in 1997. The objections raised by the parties to this agreement are therefore settled. Because the Stortinget has previously discussed the substance of the Schengen Agreement, I should just mention the main objections of the Central Party: The removal of personal controls at internal borders, as part of the establishment of a frontier-free Europe, will increase the risk of drug trafficking and international crime. The Schengen Agreement also requires Norway to adapt to the asylum and refugee policies of the EU countries. The consequences of this reduced freedom of action are somewhat uncertain. However, there may be grounds for noticing the hearing opinion delivered by the Bishop of Oslo, where, among other things: reads: ‘In the interests of human rights, and given the need for protection of refugees, the Schengen countries should be the first countries rather than the second countries to re-enter the European wall against the countries and citizens of the Third World’. The two personal registers SIS and SIRENE provide the police with the means to monitor and register persons for whom critical comments have also been made by the Data Protection Supervisor. The weakness of data protection and legal certainty in Schengen is illustrated, inter alia, by: through the history of Stephanie Mills from New Zealand who was refused entry into the Netherlands in 1998 because the French authorities had registered her as a threat to public order. The background was that in 1995 she had organized a campaign against the French nuclear bombings on Mururoa. As I said, this issue was debated in depth in 1997. When dealing with the new Schengen Agreement today, I will focus on the following two aspects: firstly, the consequences for Norway of Schengen becoming a part of the EU; and secondly, the institutional aspects of the Schengen Agreement; or the relationship between the agreement and the Constitution. The fact that Schengen cooperation is now part of the EU means that cooperation will be subject to the dynamic legislative development of the EU. The preface to the Schengen Protocol to the Treaty of Amsterdam makes it clear that Union and Community law is superior to the Schengen acquis and that the Schengen acquis should be adapted to the EU’s integration process. Schengen cooperation and judicial cooperation in the EU are intertwined. It's also clear from the proposition, but where the limit goes, it's unclear. Many suggest that there will be a grey area between the EU acquis in the field of justice and the Schengen acquis. It is worth noting that, in the context of the approval of the agreement, the Council of the European Union will indicate the areas in which the EU considers – I stress that the EU considers – that Norway and Iceland should be involved in the further development of the legislation. It doesn't seem quite reassuring, to say it mildly. Amendments to the legislation that may be defined as EU legislation will, of course, be reserved for EU Member States. Professor Erik Boe concludes that: ‘The Schengen Agreement is the first example of an international agreement in which Norway is bound to the future development of rules, decisions and acts of authority without being fully involved in the decision-making process.’ The Declaration of Adults warned that a central government would carry out an assessment of the constitutional issues related to the Schengen Agreement. The proposal to have an independent opinion on the relationship of the Schengen Agreement with the Constitution was rejected by the Stortinget in 1997. Although the new Schengen negotiations led to the appointment of the Government reference group in the context of the new Schengen negotiations, it concludes that the agreement is sustainable in relation to the Basic Law, the group has provided very relevant input into the debate on the constitutional aspects of the agreement. The main question is whether the Schengen Agreement should be dealt with under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution or under the Constitution § 93, which requires a qualified majority. The government has shown that several members of the reference group have concluded that the Basic Law § 93 is applicable and can be an alternative to the use of § 26. Although, following an overall assessment, the Government recommends the conclusion of the agreement in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Basic Law, Section 26, it is true that several prominent Norwegian lawyers have been very critical of the constitutional aspects of the Schengen Agreement. Several of the members of the reference group also have doubts about the relationship between the agreement and the Constitution. Professor Erik Boe, among other things, the question of the uncertainty about the consequences of the internal processes in the EU. He says it creates ‘Basic doubts that we do not yet know how the Schengen Agreement will be enforced and how much will actually be determined through EU internal processes compared to what will happen in the new Joint Body’. Several of the members of the reference group are concerned with the dynamic constitutional interpretation. One of the members, Liv Monica Bargem Stubholt, concludes that the Schengen Agreement could not have been adopted by an ordinary majority under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Basic Law if the agreement had been submitted to the Stortinget together, and thus not bit by bit. The Central Party considers that there should be a reluctance to accept that over time the requirements of the Constitution are weakened too strongly by the ongoing legitimacy of individual sovereignties, based on general majority decisions. An important issue in the assessment of the constitutional situation is the transfer of administrative powers that will take place through the cross-border police cooperation described in Articles 40 and 41 of the Schengen Convention. It is worth noting that both Sweden and Finland – with reference to cross-border police cooperation – chose to promote the Schengen Agreement for their respective parliaments on the basis of specific and strict constitutional procedures. It is obvious that the government here has also been in doubt when it says that when a uniform foreign police force is to operate directly against individuals in Norway, it means: ‘a certain transfer to foreign police officers of the competence to exercise administrative powers with direct effect for Norway.’;» At the same time, the Government states that the exercise of police authority affects the very core of what has traditionally been understood as State sovereignty. The central party draws the conclusion of the proposition’s assessments on this point that the Schengen Agreement must be dealt with under the Basic Law, § 93. It will ‘strengthening the constitutional legitimacy of the decision of the Grand Duchy by a 3⁄4 majority’ to quote Jusprofessor Erik Boe. On this basis, I address the proposal on behalf of the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e935	Johan J. Jakobsen has addressed the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e940	For a period of this debate, I wondered whether the representative Jakobsen was looking for the medal or the contestant medal. Now I wonder if he is on a government hunt, because he categorically states that the Schengen Agreement must be dealt with under Section 93 of the Constitution. In particular, it is not possible to say it. We from the Workers' Party are some with the Government in the assessment they've made. The interesting thing is to right from Johan J. Jakobsen if he thinks that the government is short and well disagreed with Mr. Jakobsen, or whether the Government is acting on the edge of or contrary to the Constitution. At least it's a pretty serious debt, because it can't be that the government has presented something she doesn't think, because the government hasn't got a mandate to mean anything. The government has conducted negotiations, and then the government is free to say something about those negotiations. We believe that the result that the government has negotiated is a good result, but the government has made up its mind on its own, regardless of what the Biggest thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e947	It has emerged from the post I had, and from the line changes that have taken place earlier in the debate, that the Central Party believes that there is so much doubt about the sustainability of the Schengen Agreement in relation to the Constitution that it will be most natural to deal with this matter under the Constitution § 93. It is the case in constitutional issues, as in many other issues, that there may be grounds for doubt, there may be grounds for assessment, and one may come to different conclusions. In view of the attitude and views expressed by the Government in the proposition, in particular with regard to cross-border police cooperation, I believe that an equally valid conclusion could be drawn that § 93 should be taken into account here. Of course, this is not a claim that this is contrary to the Constitution. The government has, in a price-fixed way, had a proper assessment of the constitutional conditions. One has set up a separate reference group that has followed these negotiations closely, and on this basis the reference group has concluded that the agreement is sustainable in relation to the Basic Law Section 26 and that it can be relied upon. But here, as I said, there are different assessments. That's what I've said, and that's what's behind the proposal that's just been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e956	It is difficult not to perceive the debate that the Central Party in the Stortinget is leading towards the Central Party in the Government as an expression of some kind of humor that most of us do not fully understand. Because it is that it is not possible for a government to deal with a case both under Section 26 and under Section 93 at once. Either you treat it one way or you treat it the other. So it is the government that has chosen to come to Stortinget with a proposal that this matter should be dealt with according to Section 26, and then I assume that the central party in the government agrees. I would have appreciated Johan J. Jakobsen clarifying how it is possible to sit and be constitutionally accountable to the Government of the Storting and go in for one vision that has to do with the Constitution, and then sit here in the hall and take almost the opposite view at the same time. I also want to add that according to the Government of St. Prop. No 50 also identifies the Centre Party this time with what they said in connection with Innst. S. No 229 for 1996-97, that the agreement which the Government now recommends to the Grand Duchy involves increasing the risk of drug trafficking and international crime as a result of the removal of personal checks at internal borders, the reduction of freedom of action in asylum and refugee policy and the fear of reduced privacy and legal certainty. Is it really that the central party in government is in favour of an agreement that the central party in Stortinget describes in this very serious way? I would like to add that if the rest of the bulk of the population had been close to believing that the agreement would have such a serious impact on these very central areas, then of course we would not have been in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e965	Of course, I respect the fact that the representative, Hernæs, has come to a different conclusion from what the Central Party has done. And although the representative Hernæs made it clear that he had no particular sense of the views expressed by me and the Central Party, it must be allowed to recall that there are indeed a number of prominent lawyers in this country who have clearly expressed great concern about dealing with this matter under Section 26. When a professor of law such as Eivind Smith in an interview indicates that the Schengen Agreement is a constitutional disaster, I think that the representative Hernæs could subvert the words in his criticism of the Central Party because this criticism then affects much more. Then Hernæs has a sense of humor, I understand. What he links this to is the fact that the central party in the government has recommended the agreement. I stress that the Central Party, in the same way as the other central parties in the Government, has stated that the basic position of the Schengen Agreement contained in the Adult Declaration is firm. I would also like to remind you that the national meeting of the Central Party asked our people in the Government to raise the question of the use of Section 93 of the Constitution as an alternative to the second paragraph of Section 26, and in connection with the presentation of the proposition it was said clearly and clearly that this question had been raised by the Central Party of the Government. That the central party does not in any way believe that it should be linked to this matter, is another matter, but this issue has actually been raised by the central party in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e974	Today, SV and the Central Party are going together to reject the agreement. We do agree that the Schengen Agreement is so extensive that it undermines the people's nod to the EU, or is one of several measures to link Norway as closely as possible to the EU without us being members, as Anne Enger Lahnstein said in the 1997 debate. She is now one of the members of the government who are in favour of recommending the Schengen II Agreement, despite being more extensive and giving less influence than the agreement we together said no in 1997. It's a cross of thought. Then we can be frustrated that the agreement is being adopted today without any special debate – not even in the media – and that people do not know what this agreement is all about. But then I would say the same thing to Jacobsen as I said to Steensnæs: It has been the government's responsibility to get that debate up, to get up the counter-conceptions, to get up what has actually happened. I had at least expected the Center Party to use the space for action you get by sitting in a government. So two years have gone by without the Central Party having taken advantage of the possibility of mobilising against this agreement, and it provokes me. The worst thing is that the EU's opposition is being passive in this way. I want to mention one thing that I think the Center Party could have lifted. Monitoring cooperation in the control of demonstrators and activists is now being established. There has been evidence of a police cooperation manual to maintain public order and security. It was approved after the agreement was adopted last year. Its content is that all groups to participate in demonstrations — large or small — can be monitored and recorded in SIS. This is an estimate of the democratic right to demonstrate. Why in the world hasn't the Senter Party come out with this and other things that have happened in the Schengen cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e985	SV is itself equal, I was about to say. Here we have one thing that we put together in 1997. We have expressed essentially the same points of view in the setting, even though we have a somewhat different approach to the question. Nevertheless, SV's representative is most concerned about why the central party in the government has not done the job, and that is as far as I understand, the information page and this in starting a debate. Then I would like to say as the representative Steensnæs said in his reply: who is then responsible for holding an ongoing debate on a question such as Schengen? What about SV? The centre party had this as a big deal – perhaps the biggest one – at its national meeting. I didn't hear a hug from the SV National Meeting on Schengen. But I understand that SV had completely different issues on the agenda. The fact that a no-party is pointing the gun at other no-parties because one has not been able to start a public debate, I really think it's a bad idea. And since we also have No to the European Union represented in this debate, I will use the same reasoning and promote the same views also in relation to No to the European Union. The centre party has actually done what we could to get into a debate. We also had no debate when we had the matter up two years ago, but there has been a study plan, and there have been studies going on in the Center Party, so a little disrespectful to say, I really think that this line and this criticism are far out of reach.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-26.ana.ud2657e998	The cord shift is over. The scheduled time for tomorrow’s meeting is soon to come. The President will propose that this meeting be suspended now and that a new meeting be set at 1 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
