ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e48	The representative Sonja Irene Sjøli, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. Four permit applications are available: from representatives Kjellaug Nakkim and Unn Aarrestad on leave from 2 March to 4 March – both to take part in a delegation trip to Kuwait from the representative Erna Solberg on maternity leave from 1 March until the conclusion of their negotiations on welfare leave from 2 March to 4 March On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For the county of Hordaland: Lars Arne RyssdalFor the county of Rogaland: Bent Höie and Kjell NetlandFor the county of Østfold: Ole Kristian Kjølholdt
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e104	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e109	I suggest Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e114	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. The representative of Eirin Fallet will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e119	On behalf of Asmund Kristoffersen, Gunhild Øyangen and myself, I would like to make a private proposal, that the referral from doctors to chiropractor etc. shall fall away.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e124	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e136	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 20 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 50 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 20 minutes each, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes each, the Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a change of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers of each party group, after parliamentary leaders and after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e145	We're dealing with St.meld today. No 13, ‘Some remaining issues related to the establishment of the IT centre at Fornebu’. However, the issue of the creation of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu has been being discussed in Stortinget for several rounds. In the light of the media discussion on these issues over the last few days, there is reason to recall that, in the 1998 state budget setting, everyone, apart from SV, said that they support the plans to set up a national IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. They also said that the aim was to create a centre of international importance – I repeat, of international importance – which is to contribute to new entrepreneurial activity and new educational functions in an interplay between research, education and industry. The majority place a decisive emphasis on the creation of a network that ensures an adequate flow of information and competences between the international, national and local environments. This is also at the bottom of the Committee's position here today. Of the media, a close believe that this is something that the Labour Party and the Advance Party have now found, but this was also Right on. And the representatives of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, together with the Workers' Party, agreed to assume that the development of such a centre on Fornebu should not go beyond business and educational institutions in the country otherwise. They say that the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu should also not be allowed to develop unilaterally into a purely ownership project guided by the desire for short-term profit. It will be stressed that a number of policy leaders are needed to enable the knowledge centre to meet societal objectives. And this majority is concerned that such a national IT and knowledge centre becomes a resource for the whole country, especially for knowledge-based activities in the districts. It is therefore said that the IT and knowledge centre should be involved in guidance, distance learning and information exchange. The majority also said that the state should actively participate in the realisation of the vision of an internationally attractive IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu, and believed that through a combination of hall, purposeful long-term fastening relationships and corporate formations jointly with private actors, it could facilitate participation and influence in relation to the development of a versatile knowledge centre at Fornebu. Yes, it is from Stortinget's side that we said very well and correctly that we should facilitate such a centre under clear conditions, among other things. international importance, interaction with regional environment and educational and research institutions. In connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 38 for 1997-1998, IT competence in a regional perspective, followed up by the majority of the population. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, and the Advance Party stood here together. The government proposed in this message that blanks be offered on the open market without special leads. But this didn't accept the big deal. Everyone, except Right, pointed out that this did not provide security for a knowledge centre in Fornebu, but that there had to be provision for education, online continuing education, distributed education for regional higher education, interaction with regional centres and incubator business. And another important moment: The same majority said that if this is to be done in practice, current buyers or tenants must present a plan for how they intend to implement the requirements of the state to an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. All, except Right, support that future growth in educational capacity and research before IT should be able to localise to Fornebu in order to integrate and link to the relevant business, but it was clarified that this had to be done by agreement with the established educational and research institutions in such a way as to strengthen them. This is the majority of the committee, which is made up of the Labour Party and the Advance Party, now also in full. In the setting we are discussing, we have once again clarified that the education part of the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu will be governed and organised through cooperation between the existing public educational institutions. I have already referred to the Stortinget as saying that it should be an IT and knowledge centre of international importance. I think it's entirely decisive. It will be a poor solution with a central national IT centre that does not intend to attract international competence and industry. In increasing globalisation and international competition, we have only one thing to do, simply to be prepared as best we can. Knowledge will be the most important capital and competitive factor. We're going to have to be in front of each other. The quality and capacity of the education system will of course be decisive, but in addition we need to strengthen the interaction between education and industry. And here, regional parks of knowledge, centres of competence, business or whatever you call it, have an important role to play. An IT center at Fornebu also has a role here. But then it must be strong enough to deliver something to the regions and be internationally competitive. Yes, because if we lose in international competition, not only does the central environment in Oslo lose, but it certainly does the regional environments around the country. Regional competition is not fornebu, but abroad. Therefore, a somewhat daunting IT center will all lose weight. Therefore, we need to facilitate a certain size, with the possibility of a lack of actors, a strong professional environment and a living interaction between research, education and enterprises that can create new ideas and create businesses and jobs. This thought is not new. The majority of the population then also said in June, during the processing of the IT message, that it had to consult a land area large enough to meet the need for such a centre of expertise. The majority also said that the long-term interests of the state with the Fornebu area and the plans for an IT and knowledge centre must be taken into account as either the solution chosen is the sale of state ownership, joint ownership with private interests or state ownership of parts of the property. It was also said that in a possible ownership Oslo and Bærum municipalities are invited to participate. The next moment I want to recognize is the time aspect. In June, the majority of the population stressed the need to start rapidly with an activity that could link education and development. It was pointed out that the terminal building appears to be owned by this after some conversion, and that it should be considered whether a lease could be established between the user and the state until further notice. I'm going to have to spend a little bit of time summing up these main points of what the Storing has said before, for a couple of reasons. Firstly, to show that the Government here has been given such clear leadership that it would be possible to follow this up quickly without coming back to the Storting with a new message, if the Government had had sufficient willingness to get this IT and knowledge centre in place. Secondly, to show that the majority of committees are now just loyal and follow up on what we've been up to in Stortinget. Many of the discussions in the media have gone on, for they are the facts that the Storting has explained in the past. The majority of the committee emphasizes in the setting that these premises and premises that have been drawn up in the past must be the basis for the development of Fornebu. Otherwise, in our setting, we have found reason to concreteise the process, the time frame and the measures. We insist that current buyers or tenants must submit a plan for how they intend to implement the requirements of the state to an IT and knowledge centre. Already at the end of June, an invitation from Statsbyggen was sent to groupings in the business community that reported an interest in the development of a knowledge centre at Fornebu. Landsbygg asked for answers to some questions related to Stortinget’s premises and asked for notice of more concrete plans where such ones led. Announcement should be given during the month of August. The majority now set a deadline of 1 June this year so that private operators can be chosen to present the best plan. With the time that has passed, it should be a reasonable time. Today, we see in today's Business today that the State Council of Sponheim says that the EEA Agreement can suspend its rules on State aid. The size must be clearly told by the Council of State today about how he intends to act in order to have this quickly clarified, so that the Storting will follow its instructions. Is it really so that the Council of State shows so little respect for the Storting that it will benefit from all the possibilities of training the cause, as the media today feels? Let me stress that when it comes to the choice of private stakeholders, it has to be so that it really is on the basis of the best concept that the choice is made. The government cannot remove a group of interests because for unknown reasons they should not be allowed to do so in any way. In that case, it would be anything but a democratic and tidy process. So far, after all these months have passed, there's one interested person who has a well-worked, good plan. Furthermore, we are determined that a large enough area should be allocated so that such a centre of international importance can be realised, and that one does not dispose of any of the area in question until one has chosen a plan and a partner, so that one knows what one needs. This is also in line with the plural comment of the Family, Culture and Administrative Committee in the 1999 budget. In spite of the efforts made by Stortinget, state buildings have exhilarated the Koksa area, which has led to the fact that this or other relevant area of an IT and competence centre will not be disposed of until a plan is completed. The majority of the business committee has not said in the setting that 515 deches should be set aside, but we have shown that one of the stakeholders has provided for such an area need in order to realise their plans. As long as this is a current interest, this land area must also be of interest to an IT and knowledge centre. The Committee majority suggests that the state should enter the buildings and property of a joint ownership company with the private actors being selected. It is important and in line with what led to the transfer of responsibility for the development of Fornebu in its time from the Swedish Aviation Agency to Statsbyggen, that the ownership management here has a long-term perspective. The country must manage the Fornebu values in a way that takes into account the industrial policy objectives of the knowledge centre and that gives the country a share in the growth in value. If the State joins a joint ownership between the State and private operators and, where appropriate, Oslo and Bærum municipalities, this will be an investment in an enterprise that will contribute to new value creation. This will also be good financial management by the State and anything other than subsidising special interest groups. If it is such that the land area as one needs includes parts of the land area owned by the Municipality of Oslo, there is reason to find a solution with the Municipality of Oslo in the form of joint ownership, mercenary change or other forms of acquisition of the Municipality of Oslo. The construction of the terminal should also be integrated into the joint ownership company, and a start should be made on business already from the autumn, in line with what the majority have said earlier. Finally, let me show that there are some people who have used large words in this matter. This is where scandals are going to be, and it's promised that there will be a real sea battle here today. If there is something scandalous, it must, in my view, be that one puts the debate at this level. The actual facts of the matter, as I have tried to do the right thing for here, are being discussed separately. Politics must be getting something that people and countries need, and having it done in a fair and tidy way. It's added the committee number here. I would recommend Stortinget to support the plural setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e191	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e194	This is a strange case, where the majority order the government to keep short deadlines, first June 1999 to appoint a company that will receive great gifts, and then in the autumn of 1999, probably 1 September, for the start of the operation. It seems that the majority are in a hurry, but things often take time, and here there are very many threads that are loose. The government must, of course, follow the instructions given by Storting. It is therefore important to know whether the Labour Party can confirm that the EEA rules should also be complied with if it is not possible to comply with the deadlines set out in the Decision. This is not about training, so do not answer axe shaft. In addition, can the Workers' Party confirm that it is not the intention to start Norway's fifth university at Fornebu, as it may look like part of the plural meaning?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e199	As I pointed out in my introduction, this matter has been dealt with in Stortinget four times before. It started with the 1998 budget setting. We had a very thorough process in connection with St.meld. No 38 for 1997-98, which was presented in May 1998 and discussed in the United Kingdom in June. The impression was then that due to the lack of IT skills in the country, it was urgent to get started. It was then pointed out that the terminal building was the place where one could get started. We are all aware that here is a community plan, a regulation plan that must be in place before all other things can be done. The terminal building could then rent out to stakeholders to get started on the link between education, research and industry. State Council Sponheim replied in a summary of the debate that he would speed up this matter, and that is the pace we are now calling for and we find reason to set a deadline for this. I have done well in my introduction that I believe that there is a reasonable time limit in relation to getting all plans on the table. It is clear that the EEA rules should be followed. The size cannot decide that we are not to comply with the EEA rules. It's never been the Workers' Party's intention. Everything has to be done here in relation to the EEA rules, but what I asked for in my introduction was Sponheim’s progress to clarify those questions. As I interpret the response that came from the department, there is nothing in this arrangement that would be contrary to the EEA rules in this area. So to the question of a fifth university. The setting clearly states that what is to be done by educational activities at Fornebu is to be done in agreement with the existing universities and universities. There should be additional training and a supplement to the activities they have where they are now. There shall be no new university or research institution in any way. The father is that if the state hadn't gone in there and had a hand on the wheel, that's exactly what it had become -- a new private university.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e210	This is a matter in which it becomes more and more unclear as it evolves. Nevertheless, the rapporteur did not wish to contribute to an open hearing. One of the main problems is that some form of company formation should be created. The majority, however, are not particularly clear about the nature of the formation of such a company. Unfortunately, the rapporteur did not go into this in his very general article either. However, there were some clarifications outside the Grand Duchy, namely in the ‘For debate’ of the NRC yesterday. So I just have to clarify what you're really thinking. I understood yesterday that the case rapporteur believes that the private stakeholders should make the same efforts as the state. It means something in the order of 2 – 3 billion kroner. In fact, the second speaker was for the majority position, Carl I. Hagen, not as clear, because he had two versions of what the private people were going to do, but eventually ended up in Rudihagen's opinion. I have to ask the following question: is it the case that you have to have a 50-50 company, where the private will contribute 2 – 3 billion kroner? Or is it like this, as in Carl I. Hagen's first version, that you have to set up with half a billion – the state still with NOK 2-3 billion? If that's right, in that case, you're going to get a state-dominated company at Fornebu, if one of several tasks is to rent out dwellings. In that case, it will be a large new state company that the Progress Party and the Workers' Party will then establish. Is it true that no matter which of these two versions is correct, in any case, the private must be prepared at any time to disburse the efforts of the state, namely, 2 – 3 billion kroner, so that the interested person here must actually be prepared to set up with 5 – 6 billion kroner in total?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e219	To the question of an open hearing, and that this becomes more and more unclear, as the representative Petersen says. We've had a lot of hearings in the committee. I referred to the thorough treatment we had of St.prp. No 38 for 1997-98, where all the stakeholders who wanted it were in and came up with their views on what also has to do with an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. This is where the IT industry went. Here were colleges and universities and everyone else who had a view of and an interest in this question, inside. No one suggested any open hearing then. St.meld. No 13 have been in the Grand Duchy since December. The first day before you would leave the setting, there was a suggestion for an open hearing. There is no one here who has anything to hide from the committee majority – let it stand. The institute's open hearing is good and good, but it can't be used to post a case because you can't get to say so. Then there was the question of corporate formation, and one refers to the debate in the 'To debate' yesterday. What's important to me is to clear up the misunderstanding that seemed to be here, that the state is somehow giving away its owners in a joint ownership company. It is quite clear that what the state enters by buildings and owner parts is to be valued for what they are worth in the market at a clear tariff. Similarly, private operators have to enter a value based on the real value of what they enter, whether they are capital or other ownership. But one assumption that there is the corresponding capital they are going to enter into. We haven't exactly said whether it should be a 50-50 company or a 60-40 company. There is nothing in your configuration. But what's important is that the state gets its owners valued in that company. I said in yesterday's 'For debate' that I argued that private individuals would enter into the corresponding capital, and I stand by that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e228	This is getting worse and worse. The closed process that the majority have now provided, and that we realize they want because they don't know what they really want and do and the lack of understanding of the realities of this matter, I have to say, my thoughts lead to a democracy and a business policy that is in good old Stalinist style. But you don't supply the sea, you supply the richest in the country. So this could not be better for Yeltsin or Chernomyrdin. My question to Rudihagen is: wouldn't it have been better to know how much money we spend, and then spend them on school and education within information technology, as the industry asks for, and as the universities and school Norway ask? And how in the world is it going to be to trust the Workers' Party when they knead at the center to take Hagen into the heat, and then the first thing they do afterwards, to take them into the back room and cook with them and find solutions that they don't know what costs, and that they don't know the result of? Who in the world should be able to trust that the Workers' Party really wants to cooperate on the left in politics when they are the first to run and give Hagen influence on major and important structural issues?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e235	The President would say that the term 'cockelimonke' is not a parliamentary term. The President may already feel that what is described as 'obvious misunderstandings' could easily arise in this debate. There's going to be many variants of what you can claim to be obvious misunderstandings. The President will therefore already signal that she will be very strict in giving the opportunity to clarify what is known as obvious misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e240	I want to get involved again in the relationship between the state and the private of a joint ownership company. There is no one who is too open to talk about how it should be done in detail. What we have said is that the state must value its owners in the company for what they are worth. And it stands firm, and then one in the further negotiations has to come up with the details of this scheme. Then talking about an amount of 2, 3, 4 billion dollars is pretty meaningless before you see what the real value of Fornebu would be. Nor is it the case that the state should put money into this. My answer to Andersen's representative is that I see that it is also a proper financial administration of the state to be with and sit as a partner and develop the area of Fornebu, under the clear assumption that one has a clause that one can sell out again on Fornebu and possibly take out the value increase that had to come. The state has money, and I think this is the right way to manage the values for the good of the education system in the country. When it comes to ‘taking Hagen into the heat’, I would say that I am happy that the Progress Party supports us in this arrangement. It's not that we have to say no to the Progress Party because if one generally stands for another political line in most cases. It is not possible to say no to the Progress Party in individual cases if they support us in this arrangement. There is no mysterious thing that happens in the «closed room» when it comes to this matter. I must be allowed once again to kill that myth and that insinuation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e252	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e255	At the outset, it may be appropriate to recall some of the leaderships of a joint committee or a majority of committees through the examination of several committees for the development of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. Mr Rudihagen was in on this, but I think it's important, based on the lines we've had, to repeat some of this. This must be clear: the Storting has decided that the aim is to create a centre of international importance to contribute to new business and educational functions in an interaction between research, education and industry. The Committee supported the establishment of knowledge-intensive business activities and the development of a competitive IT centre in this area in the context of the review of the IT notification by the Business Committee last year. A majority of the Committee did not agree with the Government that the plots could be put on the open market without special leadership, but that assumptions should be made. Therefore, potential buyers or tenants must present a plan to meet the requirements of such a centre. And equally important: The majority considered it necessary to provide a land area large enough to meet the needs, and stressed the need to start rapidly with a business that could link education and development. It is important for the Progress Party to facilitate the situation so that the Storting's request to get moving quickly can be followed. In the development process that will come, active interaction between the country and private enterprise is important. The country needs to pursue industrial policy objectives and get the most out of the values it owns, while the private are important to provide drive and dynamics. The State may deposit buildings and properties in a joint ownership company with the private operators which have the best plans and which at the same time make available the necessary capital. Taxiing of country's properties with IT guides is carried out in line with EEA legislation. The contract should be designed in such a way as to allow the State to sell after a period of time and thus have the possibility to raise a gain on the increase in value of the area. The majority of the Committee, including the Progress Party, is of the opinion that the Government's order to set aside the Terminal Building and surrounding areas of approximately 200 deches for purpose-related IT activities and teaching will be too small to realise the intentions of a knowledge centre. We also believe that the final concrete decision on the size must be taken in consultation with the grouping of private actors that submit the best plan. The government says in the message that the goal is to create a centre of relations both nationally and internationally. Nevertheless, we believe that the proposals contained in the notification will not be sufficient to realise the vision of a national IT centre of international format, as the Stortinget has suggested. The government's proposal only means that some businesses are moved to Fornebu. It's thought of small and fragmented, not whole, will and diversity. With the chosen arrangement from the Government, we won't get a powerful center on Fornebu, as the majority sees it. It is highly doubtful whether the scheme would be attractive in any other central, international or technology parks in other countries. A successful knowledge centre requires the area to be large enough to cover all actors to contribute to the knowledge centre. The Centre must achieve critical mass in terms of the number and variations of enterprises and educational and research institutions, while at the same time providing a wide range of services. This means that, in order to create an innovative and internationally attractive environment, it is necessary to facilitate a large-scale activity and, therefore, to provide sufficient space. This applies regardless of who owns the Fornebu area. The Progress Party is in favour of a broad commitment to Fornebu, because we see that this can be a great opportunity for the Norwegian knowledge industry. The Oslo area is the only area in the country where there is sufficient concentration of competence, capital and customers to develop an international dimension centre of gravity for certain types of knowledge-based business. Here companies can have a good opportunity to develop from micro-levels and to create opportunities for demanding interactions. In this context, it will also be easier to access the risk capital needed to create a high-growth business environment. There can be a significant driver for successful, nationwide regional development. A strong national centre will allow, properly exploited, for a similar growth in regional knowledge centres. Information and communication technologies are opening up and a number of relations have already been established between IT Fornebu and regional knowledge centres, which can become the hearths of a future network economy. There is a proposal in the position that the group that submits the best plan for the area must also include measures to the regions. I would like to stress once again that it is important to get started quickly. The first step in the development of a knowledge centre may be to start in the Terminal Building and gain experience for further work. It is also important that the shortest possible time elapses between the start of the activities of the Terminal Building and the start of the other knowledge centre. The strong leadership of the comments and the proposals adopted here today will give clear instructions to the Government. With these decisions, we will have taken a long step forward to start the realisation of the IT centre through concrete actions. We have high expectations for the development of Fornebu and for the potential to create a new knowledge-based business. It will be a major challenge for the actors. If successful, it will give Norway more leeway because a significant business life can be created in the knowledge-intensive and particularly high-growth industries. A success will not be based on coincidences, but will result from a conscious organisation of the link between learning and industry, between research and business, between private and public. At a time of greater economic uncertainty also for Norway, the need for a new development is reinforced. Oil price falls, lower dollar rates and high interest rates show that even our country, with all natural advantages, is economically vulnerable. The challenge is to seize the new opportunities offered — while there is yet time — that will be important for the development of the knowledge society. The party of progress will follow the further process of Argus eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e281	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e284	About the IT industry, it has been said that he does not depend on the location. Land borders mean less and less. This should lead to a decentralised investment. The first question is, is the Progress Party agreed in such a conclusion? Haste works are cargo works, we say on our edges. As the business committee’s management progressed, it became increasingly clear that there are many unresolved issues that hover over the water. The party of progress has made a large number of that the proposal for open hearings came on the last day of the handling. This was not so strange, as things became more and more unclear as the handling went on. The second question today is: why can't the Progress Party agree to clarify this matter better?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e293	I am very pleased with the questions I received from the representative Modulf Auchan. IT Fornebu represents something new for the districts. The majority have given rise to commitments to the regions. IT Fornebu has already started a district revolution in the areas of IT. I'm going to mention some examples of these ringings, and the Christian People's Party likes to present itself as a district friendly party. In November last year, rapporteur Alfon Jerijärvi from Sør-Varanger said that IT Fornebu had all created new lives in Finnmark. IT Fornebus contribution to regional centres in Vadsø, Alta, Narvik, Andøya, Brønnøysund, Stjørdal, Folgefonn nærhage, Lvgal, Grimstad with Sørlanden Teknologiszentrum, IT West in Bergen, at Eidsvoll and many more locations show – and prove – that IT Fornebu is already contributing to the vitalisation of District Norway, not with subsidies and transfers, but by increasing competitiveness, among others. by establishing electronic classrooms and other means. This is a new time and part of a revolution. Neither do these district municipalities understand this bullying and the ferocity of IT Fornebu, which contributes to the vitalisation of the districts. So to this with open hearings. The parliamentary leader of the Progress Party, Carl I. Hagen, has taken the lead in vitalising the Stortinge in the use of open hearings. However, when Ansgar Gabrielsen the night before the committee is due to give up and the fronts are in favour of this proposal, it is no more than a disguised postponement proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e304	You world, President! When you listen to the representative Hedstrøm, you understand that not only are shipowners receiving visions and revelations, but so are men also magnifying representatives. When Norway is already fundamentally transformed thanks to a project that is not yet close to being realized, it obviously does not have much to do with transforming that country. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 2 for 1997-98 by the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the members of the Party of Progressive Democrats together with the Right wrote the following: ‘These members stress that the State’s involvement should be primarily through the sale of the country’s properties on normal commercial terms, not through direct State grants or investments. These members do not want the State to join with private operators in the after-use of Fornebu...’;» What revelation has taken place after this time, which has led the Progress Party to take the very opposite position of what was adopted last year? It would be very valuable if we got to know each other. My next question is: What revelations are those that are peculiar to two parties in this room, and no one else has been given part in? None of the professionals who know about the IT industry in Norway are part of this revelation. None of those responsible for the heavy education environments at university level share this esoteric knowledge. Where does this knowledge come from? I suspect that the answer to that can only be one: it comes from the actor who has constantly drawn the strings, put the premises and got his formulations into detail in the majority's position. It is a poor and reassuring way to receive revelations for the national Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e320	Firstly, this with shipowners or other people in Norway with capital. In particular, the right has repeatedly pointed out in this Chamber that the capitalists and those with money in Norway are investing abroad. Now we have one possibility, because there are some people who own capital, who are interested in investing in a high-tech center at Fornebu. That must be good. Those who can do this say straight away that Norway is falling into the trap of raw materials. Now we have to get more legs to stand on in Norway and develop value-creating high-tech businesses. Of course, there have been some IT companies that have said that we don't want to establish ourselves at Fornebu, we don't feel that our business is worth it. 90 pst. by the IT companies of a association had no plans. But the other 10 pst. can fill the entire Fornebu area and well so. And then we get to the point. I'm getting a little annoyed, because what's going to happen is not just passively putting a lot of businesses out there. What is significant here, and which has also contributed to our having a slightly different view in later settings, is that the Progress Party a year ago understood that the interaction between education, research, private business and, possibly, the state's involvement and role will be positive for bud-shooting and start-up of new activities, as we have positive experience with the knowledge centres outside the world that have had success.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e327	Quite exactly one week ago, the Øystein Hedstrom of the Progress Party stood on this platform and said that it was not appropriate to use taxpayers' money to create jobs in District Norway. It was unacceptable to use taxpayers’ money to move out the Agricultural Bank — it cost tens of millions. Politicians and bureaucrats were not to interfere in the kind of establishment that businesses would decide for themselves where they wanted to establish themselves and how much money they would spend on this. The recipe of the Progress Party for business start-ups was tax relief, not the use of taxpayers’ money. But this is a whole week ago. This week it is willing to spend billions of dollars on establishing business in the main press area we have in this country. And not enough for billions to be used to establish business, but you're also going to spend billions to attend to and care for residential purposes at Fornebu. At the top of it all, taxpayers' money should go to a few people who from before are among the richest in the country. So the moral of the progressing party is that only you have enough already can you get a little more of the taxpayers' money. There is a lot in this position about how the state should contribute, and about what the state should do to enable us to realize an IT centre at Fornebu. There is very little about what private actors should contribute. I want to ask the representative Hedstrøm: How much money do you expect the private to go in with? How are private individuals expected to contribute to regional development? It is not enough to enter into agreements with a large number of municipalities around – it is the material content of these agreements, and what is going to happen practically in these municipalities, which will be crucial if we get a development here. So the Workers' Party has said that existing institutions are going to be teaching on Fornebu. What is the Party's interpretation of the majority voting? According to the Workers' Party, it is the State, not the private sector, which is responsible for education, and therefore also for distance learning, and which contributes to a positive development in the regions. So I am interested in hearing from the Progress Party the interpretation of this question as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e340	The Progress Party also believes that it is a public task to provide education, training and different facets of it. We can discuss in some cases who will do this, but it is at least a public task to ensure that Norway is at a high level in this area. And then this claim of subsidisation comes back. The Progress Party does not like to subsidize – and we do not like that in this case, either. It is, of course, the EEA legislation to be followed; it must be a commission of independent valuers – if we can now follow that procedure. We'll see about that in the future, as the Ministry of Labour and Administration yesterday made a statement by a law firm. I also put a question mark in that it comes the day before we're going to take a decision here in Stortinget, when these leaders from a political majority and the question of putting state values and properties into a company have been lying there ever since we dealt with the IT notification. In fact, it seems to me that when you release that information the day before a decision is to be taken, the seriousness goes out in the department. There is a lot to be said about the work done there – I've got all the lawyers to look at it – but we'll get back to that later, because we can't do that here in a row exchange. So I would like to say it plainly: the Advance Party is opposed to subsidisation, it is not allowed under EEA legislation. How would we be able to subsidize this – and deal with international laws and regulations?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e349	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e352	This is outrageous. Not only does the majority recommend deciding that the State should sit with property that should and should be sold at market price, so that one locks approx. 1.6 billion kroner that we need, but in addition, they are asking the Government to purchase more property on Fornebu, from the Municipality of Oslo – and so have billions of the same size. If there's not a multiple of mine in point 4, they're going to have to tell you. But if it's not meant for the state to buy, as it was supposed to be in the NRK yesterday, what are they going to negotiate with Oslo about – because Oslo has decided to sell them at market prices. Then the state will start operations all the way to the cottage. hardly ESA has finished its process yet, even if you can hope. And what kind of business? Why start education before a minimum of IT companies are established? I'm going to try the multiples at least to draw the points 4 and 5. If a few useful collaborations between the knowledge industry and the teaching centre are to be established, industry must be in place first, otherwise education can probably be conducted wherever it goes, simply at the University of Bergen, at the University of Oslo or at NTNU. And what is the country's primary exposure when point 6 of the decision states that the country's «other involvement» is research, education, industry development and regional cooperation? I thought that's what the state was supposed to concentrate on – that's where the state is good! Here it would certainly have been necessary for an open hearing. This is nothing less than a huge cash support for Norway's five richest men – and it's unworthy. I can't believe two parties have let themselves be so thorough at the nose. Here the Progress Party – the party for privatisation, least possible State interference and free competition – goes away and forms a gigantic state company! I thought we agreed to invest in active private ownership in business – as the Progress Party has said in the context of the ownership message – and not in new state companies. It's amazing. And frankly, we're not going to hold it against the Progress Party if they now admit that they were wrong, admit that this was unthinkable and across the ideological base of the party. It's not too late to turn around - a decision other than the setting today would have been respected. It is also strange that the Labour Party is going to take all the risk of large capital – because it is an extension that would otherwise have gone quite by itself with private capital. In addition, one ignores the fact that the party has long since been involved in making the funds available for the sale of Fornebu, to Gardermoen – and I believe that former government councils that have been in charge of airport development have not forgotten that this matter should also be financed. Had they even said that the funds would be used for computers in schools, for training teachers, for financing further education at Fornebu or even for care for the elderly, we should have discussed it. But to keep the capital in a state company at Fornebu, it's fifty-fifty-strong – wasn't it then a built steelworks and such? So will the IT companies come? We don't know. Nine out of ten IT companies are not interested in Fornebu. IT Fornebu may prove to be an airlock. That's the risk. It would be a much smaller risk to keep 8 000 m2, as the minority will. The size should have followed the Government's plan to set aside 8 000 m2 for training in the Terminal Building, and together with private stakeholders in the start-up and operation of a so-called incubator business, add IT leaders in the field and sell the property at market price. The revenues would then be co-financed by Gardermoen. It's a natural task for the state, not building housing and feeding. But let's do it. I encourage the Storing to vote against the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e368	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e371	Now it is probably the Christian People's Party that has our greatest enthusiasm for the cash support scheme – just as it has been said. In this setting, there are clear indications that there are current buyers, in many cases, who can submit a plan for the development of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. It has long been known what the Great One will have when it comes to the contents of this Center, and the Christian People's Party is part of it. Int. S. No 232 for 1997-98, all others outside the Right, but including the Christian People's Party, underlined the need to get moving quickly with an activity that could link education and development in this area. The representative Säle claimed in the Official Journal of Bergen on 18 February that she thought what is now happening from the Labour Party's side is interrelationship of the worst variety. What about my representative, Sæle? Does the representative think it is negative that a large investment group is responding to the clear demands of the Stortinget, including the Christian People's Party, when it comes to the contents of this centre?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e380	The Christian People's Party is eager to transfer cash support to thousands of young children's parents. But we never meant to give such support, about the same amount, to the five richest men in Norway. I'm surprised that the Labour Party thinks so. Do we want to get started fast? Yes, actually, the government will be quick to start. It has also added up, and it supports a minority in the Committee. But with the arrangement we now have from the Labour Party and the Progress Party, everything can stop by EEA or ESA getting to grips with the situation. The only safe way to get started quickly is to sell at market prices. It is unproblematic in relation to the EEA rules. I'm afraid there's more of the bulk of this stuff than the government that's adding up an unnecessary and time-consuming process here, at the same time setting a date for the execution. It's not that easy to relate to. So to the interrelationship problem, I don't have so many minutes to talk about this. But in a TV program called Focus, something said about it. What I feel is so strange that almost one has to use such words, is that a party does the opposite of what an otherwise is water to do, and transfers such large funds to the five richest men in Norway. Then there must be something else behind it than what is in the paper.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e389	The Christian People's Party and the other government parties are sceptical about the model and dimensions the Workers' Party and the Advance Party want for the IT and Competence Centre that will be established at Fornebu. Of course, that's a position that these parties must be allowed to have. In their comments, they print, among other things, NTNU and SINTEF to their breasts. They refer to a letter dated 16 February 1998, which contrasts with a model with a knowledge centre directed by one actor. However, this is not right, because the majority, the Labour Party and the Advance Party have clarified the position, that this IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu should be managed and organised through cooperation between existing public educational institutions. So, the institutions are self-directed within themselves, but of course they're going to cooperate outside. Yesterday I received a letter from Adm. dir. Roar Arntzen in SINTEF, who fully supports IT Fornebu. He says, ‘Therefore, Sintef has engaged in the company IT-Fornebu’ – they are shareholders there–’ and we believe that the opportunity to succeed is great.’ In other words, the training institutions in Norway with SINTEF in the head push IT Fornebu to their breasts. Then the bottom falls out of some of the comments made by the Christian People's Party. I want to ask the representative Seele how she explains this, and whether this will affect the Christian People's Party's view of the role of universities in Fornebu.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e403	Now we've had both NTNU and SINTEF and many others listening in the committee, and they've stressed very strongly that they want to cooperate with the actors who had to come to Fornebu. And it's basically natural for educational institutions that stand outside, and that of course will grasp what's actually coming, to do it. Whether it is one company or another, they have underlined that this will be taken into account, and they will deal with this. What the Centre and the Right have put forward in the notes is that the educational institutions should have control over their own activities. They've always had it, and they should still have it. We don't want a corporate formation out there that makes educational institutions run by a common. So that's why we've written it in the notes, and that's what we're saying. That is the basis of the university policy and research policy that we have in Norway, and there is no need to change it on the basis of a letter referred here from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e410	The representative Apelthun Seele says IT Fornebu can turn out to be an airlock. Yes, it can, because it's not a very good idea. Neither the industry nor the educational institutions think so, whether they were at the time this vision was presented, were in a way torn in a drag suck because everyone thought everyone else was going there, and then they had to. And then they've said that they have to be there as everyone else is. But now it turns out that it isn't. The first time we dealt with this matter – it's almost a year and a half ago – SV was alone about being skeptical about this, because we knew that this was educationally wrong, we knew that it was wrong for the industry, and we also knew that if we did this, it would be a huge vacuum cleaner. So an IT Fornebu project that worked out would be a disaster for educational institutions and districts. Moreover, no one had investigated whether this was the right way to acquire Norway’s IT skills and make us competitive. I would like to ask Apelthun's representative, 'Did you not think about this when you were in these remarks?' Have you not thought during the treatment that you have also been involved in making the premises and in some way building up under this vision that has been allowed to blow up and become huge, and that in some way has a centrifuge effect that makes it almost impossible to stop now? Do you have a sense of self-respect that you should actually have been more sceptical in the first place?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e419	I think the visions were there before our remarks, and the centrifugal force that the representative is detecting here could probably have been there without us. I don't ignore the fact that IT Fornebu is an airlock. That's why the government and we have also put relatively small risks into that part by putting of 8,000 m2 and no more than that. Otherwise, I have a feeling that we in the centre – at least we in the Christian People's Party – at the earlier proceedings of this matter have stretched us far. But we also believe that a knowledge industry that has a relationship with education and research is important. It can happen elsewhere than at Fornebu, but it can also happen at Fornebu. So we haven't been negative to that part, but then the nutrition has to go first. At least that's point number. 1st@item: inlistbox Would this be a vacuum cleaner relative to local locations and local IT activities? I do not really hope so, because the IT industry has the hallmark that it can just build District Norway by being able to establish itself anywhere and communicate very well. That's why the Christian People's Party and Center have always put in leaders who say that we're assuming that this is not going to go beyond the territory. It has been a commitment to us that it does not happen, and I also believe that we should do it with the arrangement that the Government has.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e428	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e431	When I saw the debate with Svabø at the NRK last night, it was another program's title that ran me through, and it was X-Files, you don't think it until you see it. I want to say that what I saw yesterday overcame it. Because even when I saw it, I had a hard time believing it. When you heard Carl I. Hagen talk about how wonderful it had been with a state involvement at Fornebu to build rental homes, I got a different association: coal mining in Barentsburg – everything in one place. It was almost more than fantastic. And when I hear Rudihagen today saying that this is the fourth time we're dealing with this, now we have to – implicitly – get through, I have to say that it's completely unintelligible when it's in a case that's up to treatment for the fourth time in this forum, has never been more loose threads than it is today. The discussion about the IT centre at Fornebu does not concern whether or not to facilitate such a centre. This is the subject of the broad political consensus. The release of the old aerodrome area opens up exciting opportunities to establish a knowledge-based business environment, centrally located in relation to Norway’s largest ICT labour market. This discussion is about how best to facilitate a competitive business environment that can help to realise the vision of Norway as a leader in the information and knowledge industries. The right considers that this is best done by selling the country’s properties to a maximum bidder with a general IT guide on the use of the properties. Such a procedure ensures equal treatment between the different stakeholders, and the companies that establish themselves in Fornebu are also those that have the greatest faith in this vision. Competitive business environments have the best growth conditions when business start-ups take place on business terms based on the company's own technological insights and market knowledge. Unfortunately, the Labour Party and the Advance Party have instead set up a process which must at least be said to have the germ in itself to become a political scandal. The two parties want a cooperative team between the State and a State-favored private company to realise the IT centre of Fornebu. They want one company to have sole responsibility for realising the IT centre, and they give the government the most graceful three months to appoint this company. As far as I've seen in the media, it was earlier talk in one month. The State shall deposit properties and buildings and participate as joint owners of this company. Not enough of that: The State must also ensure that the IT centre also acquires the property of the Municipality of Oslo at Fornebu. Since the State has to judge that property, the total price tag can therefore be “approximately” NOK 2 500 million. That's what Hagen uses when he's going to show how many billions there are. The procedure means, in short, the absence of free competition and the reduction of the value of the property of the State. This State exposure will in value exceed the nominal amount of the State’s share item in Norsk Hydro. That there is talk of such enormous state involvement, neither the setting characterizes nor the message we have from the Government, which, of course, had a different starting point, and which it is natural that has not solved this either. But on NRK TV last night, the majority of the cat finally escaped from the bag when it was stressed that it was assumed that the private investors would deposit a similar amount. There was a statement that I think was very much appreciated by the shareholders of IT Fornebu AS, a company that, as far as I know, has a share capital of just 12 million. kr. And when Hedstrom here talks about this by letting shipowners and capitalists go to, yeah, that's what Right will, but these capitalists will first and foremost let go to the state on the financial side. That's the big difference. The certainty that things will succeed is that people are willing to use their own resources. And I would like to remind you that the state's total portfolio in the SND equity division, where 250 companies have got a government pouff going on, is half of the amount that this congregation is now willing to spend on this. The procedure is not only expensive for the state, it is also fundamentally very objectionable. The requirements of the development company appear to be tailored to one interested party: IT Fornebu AS. This means that the company has a disproportionate advantage over other stakeholders in the short time allocated to the Government by the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. I'll call it grace. There has been no lack of evidence of clear allegations of liaison between the LO, the Workers' Party, the Norwegian Investor Forum, etc. in this case. I don't want to be surprised if it turns out it's even worse than the clues we've already heard. A question of interrelationship that has an interest is: When did a change of attitude occur in the workers' party government as to what to use for Fornebu and what values should lie there? Or in another way: where can you see in the big message that there is an active group working purposefully against obtaining the perhaps most attractive non-constructed property, of witty tongues referred to as the ‘snare insider’? Let's go back a little bit in time. At Stortingen's treatment of Innst. S. No 1 for 1992-93 on new airport at Gardermoen, it was decided that the State’s share of the values of Fornebu should be allocated to the expansion company and used for the expansion of the new main airport at Gardermoen. The value was then estimated at $2 billion in 1992. The government of Harlem Brundtland’s assessment was as late as the fall of 1994 as the following: ‘The government assumes that the value in 1999 is more than 2000 million, with an equal probability. 1992-DKK as a minor.’ It was fixed in St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 9 for 1994-95. This quote is a sure indication that until then the government had at least no intention of adding leads that could reduce value. In that case, the Stortinget had to be informed about this. The change in the Government's attitude came after the Norwegian Investor Forum had submitted reports to the Government for which the Danish Government had paid NOK 100000, and the LO's husband in the Government, State Council Totland, had also granted NOK 100000 at his State Building. That's what St.prp. No 1 for 1996-97 for the Ministry of Transport, under the direction of the State Council, Opseth and State Secretary Rudihagen, that the time had now come to consider matters different from those previously mentioned. Now, it was suddenly stated that ‘and will be assessed on the basis of good financial management, general policy objectives and desired social development in the Oslo region’. The same month that this proposition was presented to Stortinget, IT becomes Fornebu AS established, where one of the shareholders is LO. These formulations were created for this group which, from now on, effectively guided development. Yes, it was even the Norwegian Investor Forum that was commissioned by the Ministry of Industry and State Building to work to find competent investors who could be willing to invest financially to develop relevant business activities at Fornebu. As far as I'm concerned, you didn't have to go far, actually you probably found most – not to say all – in a modest circle around yourself. I do not criticize the Norwegian Investor Forum or the shareholders of the two companies involved, IT Fornebu AS and IT Fornebu Eiendom AS. On the contrary: I would like to congratulate them. When I saw the TV debate last night, where Carl I. Hagen talked about the visions, the need for housing, paradigm shifts, etc., I realized that this is where we have reached the point. What I am criticising is the way the matter has been dealt with by the previous government. You obviously got blinded by an idea, and almost uncritically in the end, you got on the road. That you still have the intimate contact far into the delivery of this matter, I record that more than I have observed. The fact that the Norwegian Investor Forum succeeded in bringing LO on the owner’s side must well be called a successful grip. I can't interpret it differently. Having the LO boss on the team was probably considered valuable, to say it carefully. Perhaps the very best proof of that is, in my opinion, the letter that the Business Committee received on 3 June last year when we dealt with St. Announcement. No 38 for 1997-98. In this letter, LO states that IT Fornebu has the best setup and should be preferred as an actor. There are even a few conditions for its support, namely that the whole area must be covered, and there must be only one builder. That LO actually also had a role as a shareholder is not mentioned in the letter – incidentally, she can. There is reason for serious concern when at different times key actors in the process have had roles that conflict easily with each other. A number of things suggest an unhealthy relationship between IT Fornebu AS, the Workers' Party and the trade union movement. The point of view of the Advance Party is more to me than to chance. It is a democratic problem when premises for political decisions are put outside open, democratic processes, and individual actors have unclear roles and conflicting loyalty. This was the background to the Right’s criticism that the Workers’ Party in government position in many areas encouraged an unfortunate interaction between public and private interests. That practice appears to have continued in the Storting in opposition. As far as research and education are concerned, the Right considers that the role of the State must be to facilitate the establishment of established research and education institutions on their own initiative in Fornebu and to cooperate with industry. That is why we support the Government's proposal to set aside 8 000 m2 in the terminal building for educational purposes, and I have recorded that the relevant educational institutions believe that that estimate is sufficient. Equivalent cooperation between industry and educational institutions can have significant repercussions on value creation, education and research across the country. However, the Workers’ Party–Fremskrittspartiet wants the semi-state development company to have a firm governance of the development of both the business and education activities at Fornebu. We'll see what it does. I have recorded that central education and research environments fear that the majority structure means an over-management of educational activity at Fornebu. It's a fear I share. Over-management of established educational institutions will be a breach of the traditional independent role of these institutions and may have significant negative consequences. All experience suggests that competence-based creative environments thrive best within flexible organisational frameworks. Change-oriented, interactive environments are easily hampered by rigid organisational structures that the majority here add. The framework for an IT and Competence Centre at Fornebu should therefore be designed in an equivalent and voluntary way between industry and the academic environment. So some words compared to this with open hearings. In view of the many open questions that were raised, the right-wing hearings on the construction of an IT centre on Fornebu were proposed. Open hearings could open the ‘closed rooms’ to the public and clear the worst suspicions of interconnection. It is all the more remarkable that the Labour Party and, in particular, the Advance Party rejected the proposal for open hearings. Is it the joy of finally being able to fit into the closed rooms that have made the Advance Party go against this with open hearings? I have to say that it is remarkable when Hedstrom here today refers to a letter he has received from Sintef – by all, a great, serious actor within this – from his director Arntzen. He sends a letter to a party the day before the debate, six days after the vote in the committee, to stress and try to clarify what you think. It was precisely this that was the reason why the Right proposed open hearings, and that we could not have suggested it before. The Babylonian confusion was total. These educational institutions, colleges and universities had given clear signals of the excellence of this package to the Norwegian Investor Forum. When they started getting away the wrapping paper and got to see what it was, the faxes and telephones started coming. Therefore, we could not propose open hearings before either. And I have to say, not least this about the formation of a company, which we got into last night, where it's the majority's idea to have a state involvement that is superior to that of the state's shares in Norsk Hydro, and which means that the largest company formation that the state has joined with private people, so it shouldn't be mentioned with one word in the vote. It's not just a political scandal; there's a lack of respect for finding a basis for this assembly to make a safe decision. Now this week we have received the Ministry of Finance's statement of what has happened in the 11 largest projects in which the State has been involved. There's only one word that's opaque. There are scandals, from a to, in terms of budget overruns and lack of coverage of consequences, if we do that. And now we're going to go into corporate formations that are historic, not just that they're in the largest growth industry, which has the highest payroll level, which has the best parachutes, and which has most of the option agreements, but that's the biggest commitment the state has with private investors. And when the Minister of Transport is in the spontaneous question hour yesterday and – I was saying – shows one billion after another, what it will have to do with consequences, it is totally incomprehensible to me that the Progress Party and the Labour Party do not feel the need for an open consultation on this matter. Because there's one thing I'm sure of, it's not the last time this case is being dealt with in this room, even if it means it's going to be a fifth round. We need that!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e508	Was it so that the representative Gabrielsen would make a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e511	That is quite right, President, and the proposal is distributed at the table of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e519	Then Ansgar Gabrielsen has taken up the proposal he finally referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e524	The representative Gabrielsen has gone high in this matter. He's done that before, and he keeps on doing that, with an insinuation of interrelationship and decision in 'closed rooms' to mystify the whole process, without his documenting anything. But it's supposed to give you the impression that there's something going on here that doesn't tolerate the light of the day. In the NRK's New Year's Eve, the Right is referred to as a 'political scandal', which they are repeating now, that a political plurality on the Stortinget seems to want to give shipwrecks peace. Olsen a large plot on Fornebu at subsidised prices. And Gabrielsen says: ‘Now, when it may seem that they are withdrawing a single shipowner and are going to favour with a not insignificant amount of subsidies on the purchase of a property at my discretion, I suppose it smells something...’ I have to ask Gabrielsen to substantiate his claim. What's in the plural setting that says Fred? The oil shall be subsidized, when it is explicitly stated that the EEA tariff shall be the basis of State ownership if one is to enter a joint ownership company? What, then, is in the setting that can give permission for claims that there should be a government subsidy on Fred. Olsen?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e538	When it comes to contact or not contact, I've gone through a lot of actual things, and I want to say that the burden of proof is now on those who have made it that going against these coincidences – which are ten, twenty, thirty, and you can ram up almost as many people as you want – has nothing to do with it. So to this with the subsidy element: is there anyone who has imagined that this investor group intended to do what Rudihagen said yesterday evening that they should, namely go in with a corresponding amount? Here, of course, you've done what all the property developers who have a little bit in their heads do. Of course, they get hold of someone who sits on a large, valuable site, and who then goes into the company with it. Then you create a small development company with a minimum share capital, and then you're told some gains far into an uncertain future. That is the point of appeal, that is the subsidy element in the case. Why in all the kingdoms of the world should we? If it's the case that these investors are going in with a corresponding amount – that is, DKK 2.5 billion, as Rudihagen suggested last night – a lot of the subsidy element for that part will be gone, but I guess I have little reason to assume that that's the case. It's precisely because you let go of these huge capital interpretations that this has been interesting. The state's share of DKK 2.5 billion: If the state were to have a return from day one on it, with today's interest rate level it would be approx. One million. kr i return per. the working day. I doubt that they have been suggested in the Norwegian Investor Forum – or elsewhere. But I think this group that we're dealing with here is people who don't sell for 90 cents what they buy for $1. It's probably completely different things. My point is, as I said in my post, that the majority position does not really say anything. It's just the formulations that you can have in any 17 May speech. That is what this House must have in order to be able to reach a decision as far as it is concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e550	The representative Gabrielsen really does turn on the big deal in this case and has said a number of times that this is an approximate scandal. And it's pretty tough for a Right-Representative to be! I'll tell you one more time: the party of progress is in favour of open hearings, but Gabrielsen will come the night before giving, after all the ordinary hearings and recordings. He said that we had got some faxes afterwards, but it gets very thin, then, when it's going to be the reason for having an open hearing. So why don't Gabrielsen and Right Willoch's advice and what he said in connection with the Lund Commission's treatment, that if you're going to have an open hearing, it must have a mission and come in parallel with the work of the Storting and the Committees, and not as this is done, as a disguised postponement proposal. When the Right believes that this matter is approaching a scandal, why has there not been more accountability and accountability in view of its views and promoted the proposal of open consultation much earlier? Then the Right's proposal had avoided being seen as a postponement proposal. It would also probably have been given a majority with the support of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e557	It's often a problem, as I experience myself, that you write your own posts and lines before you've heard the posts. But I think it should be relatively well seen through my post why it would make sense to have an open hearing and get a postponement of this matter, in the light of all that we have got done afterwards. Hedstrom says it's tough for a Right-Man to talk about scandals. Well, there's been some development in the Right too, I can calm Hedstrom down with. I saw on the screen last night that Carl I. Hagen used a couple of his relatively used tricks, it was about Willoch, for example, as one of the big ones. You have to associate Willoch and Hagen – you have to sit back with that impression. Then from this pulpit I can actually send a greeting to Carl I. Hagen from just Willoch, who has sent me a fax today – Hagen will of course get this entire A4 page afterwards, but I can quote something that might have interest: ‘If any emphasis was to be placed on the undersigned’s views, which I am pleased that Carl I. Hagen says he does, the conclusion must be: open consultations on IT-Fornebu should certainly be held.’ So if Willoch's words are going to be decisive and governing for what Carl I. Hagen finally thought, the answer is given. There will be open consultation on this, and all the things that have been said or not said, half-wheat shows and what it may be, will be floodlit under full public coverage. The progress party has then fulfilled Willoch's wish, which I understood would please Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e569	It looks like power is at stake with IT Fornebu, but it doesn't seem like reason is. As the case has been handled so far, I do not think it has contributed to the reason that after the rush of revelation has settled. Is the idea good, is this the right way to strengthen IT skills and education in Norway? I also feel that scepticism has increased in the Right, sail if the Right has also been on this table the prisoner-case that arose as a vision and a revelation, and which now may appear to be somewhat less pleasant and attractive to the Right. When one hears that representatives from the industry, such as Ditlev Simonen from IBM in the TV debate yesterday, say that IT Fornebu are old-fashioned visions, the Silicon Valley idea is passé and that the money should be spent in school, is Ansgar Gabrielsen and Right disagree in such a point of view? Are you not now – if you know well after – a little more in doubt if it was right to be as positive initially as what you were?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e576	The representative Andersen claims that the term ‘old man visions’ was used. I shouldn't have said anything about that, but I'm noticing that it's good adult people who are doing this. If you look at the investors, it's not the junior departments in the groups that have dealt with the case. In November/December 1997, the Right and Advance Party said: OK, we're setting up a business park out there with IT management, etc., but we don't want to interfere with any government involvement. It was, like our idea, understood that if it was so that it was interested in establishing an IT competence centre and it was investors who were waiting to join us, we thought it was all right in the relatively large area it was about. I have said from day one that I am no more Catholic than that I am deleting the IT guides on the day it turns out that the industry has no interest in establishing an IT centre. It would be crazy to leave these areas unused because if that particular industry doesn't want to go out there. I guess the government will come back on the same day it had to get such indications, because then, of course, we have to remove the leadership that has been laid down and get to something else, because here you have to be able to get to business. If you can't do it at Fornebu, there's no place else in this country you should do it. But the appeal point is the state, the heavy and the massive involvement. With regard to the degree of education in this, I record that there is a total gap between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party as to what they imagine you're going to have out there. It would not have been unnatural if part of this had been clarified, through the setting first and foremost.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e587	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e590	The debate we have today on the establishment of an IT centre on Fornebu is taking place in the series of several debates that everyone has had in common: in fact, it is almost a unanimous growth that wants to establish an IT and knowledge centre on Fornebu. The government has now reported through St. Announcement. No 13 In my opinion, the establishment of a centre was fully in line with the assumptions made by the Stortinget in previous treatments. A sufficient area is reserved for educational purposes where direct agreements can be concluded between the country and the educational institutions. The establishment of a number of actors has been facilitated, not only is it a single player who will be able to support the development of Fornebu, but it will also contribute to innovation and industrial activity through so-called incubator activities. The centre parties and the centre party have also entered into previous positions in order to enable the State to participate through joint formations of companies or through long-term fastening contracts. Similarly, a majority have said that the establishment of an IT centre at Fornebu should not be at the expense of similar activities in the country. For the Centre Party, it has been an important premise that an IT centre at Fornebu should also provide positive ring-effects to the rest of the country. This is possible in several ways, and it is partly described in previous settings. But there must be a clear premise that both the state and the private are willing to invest money in developing skills and industrial development, not only at Fornebu, but also in other parts of the country. Through the majority approach, the state is now investing considerable funds into a semi-stated company in Fornebu without any clarification of the amount of private funds to be used, without any clarification of the state's ownership and, in addition, making it a premise that the State should acquire property from the Municipality of Oslo if it is necessary to obtain sufficient land – and at the top of it all: this is done without any evidence or result as a requirement from anyone that the State should contribute so much money. I have to say, this is pretty special. Here you are willing to spend money in terms of perhaps a few billion dollars to establish an IT centre and a residential area of up to 2,100 dwellings in what is believed to be the most attractive land area in the country. This is a state organization for the creation of jobs, which lacks parallel in Norwegian history! And this is done in an area that is characterized as the most attractive in Norway, in the most expansive industry we currently have, and at the top of it all: in the area that is the engine of centralization here in the country. The center it's now being facilitated by the majority, is of a completely different dimension than what I've imagined. In addition, when there are insufficient leads to ensure a regional dimension in this, I fear that the majority has embarked on a path that could have dramatic consequences for the development potential of this industry in the rest of the country. I have, frankly, problems in understanding what is the driving force in this case. I have heard that there is an irritation that the department has spent too much time getting the case out, that it has not been done enough by the Minister of Industry. So where are we today? Bærum municipality has not confirmed the regulation plan for the area. It's not the department's responsibility. The environmental aspects of the use of Fornebu have not been sufficiently clarified. It is not clear whether there are companies that want to establish themselves in this area at all, despite the willingness to invest significant government funds in a joint company. The size of the State's holding in a common company has not been established and no decision has been taken on the amount of funds to be expected from the private sector. It is not clear how the country's share should be financed, because it is not as simple as saying that the country should only deposit properties. In fact, all batches in Stortinget have budgeted for the use of the funds from the sale of this area for other purposes. I still think that an IT and competence centre at Fornebu can be a good idea. I think it is possible, through an interaction between education, research and business development, to facilitate the development of IT-related industries in Norway and the continuation of long-term growth. However, I do not believe the model of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party is a good model. The risk is too great, the government spends money on a project that could probably have been financed more or less without State participation, because so far it has not been achieved as a pre-requisite that the state should engage with billions. I think it would be possible to put the necessary leads and conditions into a sale, so that you can achieve the nutritional effects the country is looking for without using large government funds to do this. This case has not been closed. At a later stage, the size must take account of the economic aspects of establishment. I fear it may be an unpleasant surprise, and I am waiting eagerly to see what measures the Labour Party and the Advance Party intend to cut in to cover the 2.3 billion kroner that are now disappearing from the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e634	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e637	The IT competence that exists in the Oslo region is highly vulnerable in an international perspective. Does the representative, Mr Enoksen, see any need to develop a strong central environment to ensure that Norway can play a role in the future IT society? That environment must also take on a special responsibility to contribute to the emergence of a driving force for the development of strong regional environments in rural areas, so that these environments can jointly represent the overall IT competence of Norway in the future. The representative, Mr Enoksen, agreed to this. But what is it then in the setting he is against – or the concrete model, which he mentioned?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e643	I thought that was clearly stated in my post. I think this could be a center that should have both national significance and that should be able to draw on international competences. What is my point, however, is that I think this is possible without the government spending a couple of billion dollars in a joint ownership company at Fornebu. I think, and it has turned out through the hearings that, among other things, The Committee has concluded that there is an interest from companies that wish to contribute to the development of an IT centre on Fornebu, but none of them has provided the condition that the State should contribute at least a couple of billion dollars in order to participate in its development. None of them have put it as a premise that the state is going to buy property from the Municipality of Oslo to participate in the development of this. And that's what's going to be tearing away wrong with the model that the Workers' Party now chooses. So without asking if it's necessary at all, you're willing to spend at least a couple billion dollars on establishing this IT center. And I'm not talking about subsidisation, because I take it as a matter of course that the Workers' Party does not want to be involved in facilitating it. But the money is going to be collected from the state budget, and it's going to be covered in other areas. That money could have been used to establish IT education. You could buy computers for school and rust up the school system in large parts of the country for the amount we're talking about is going to be put into business development at Fornebu, in an area where it's completely unnecessary to spend this money. That's my appeal point against this way of spending money.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e648	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e651	Do we need a new IT centre at all? If we do that, it's going to be on Fornebu, and why is it going to be there? How much will it cost? What can we make of that? Who's gonna make a profit from that? And what is the alternative use of money? IT Fornebu, according to SV, is a vision based on pure vision. If the vision succeeds, it will be a disaster for Education Norway across the country and for the IT industry, because it will seem enormously centralizing. If it fails, it will be almost as bad, because then a spent lot of money should have been spent in a much more useful and better way. 1 1⁄2 years ago, SV was a little alone to understand that this emperor had no clothes on him, and that IT Fornebu was a washed-up child of an unholy alliance between shipowners, such as Fred. Olsen, LO, Arbeiderpartiet and subsequently also the Progress Party. The idea of IT Fornebu has been sold, purchased and swallowed by almost everyone before so that there was not a single gram of meat on the leg. Then it was made as if everyone else were going to be involved in this, and that everyone who had concerns about it was against IT competence and education. It can't be the other way around. It was: if you want to be there, hang on. I got a letter from a lot of educational institutions around the country saying, OK, this is coming, and we have to be there. "If you can"t beat them, join them." It was created a notion that this was something that came, and that you had to be there. But there was no one in the IT industry who had asked for it, there was no one in the colleges and universities who had asked for it, but they were sort of startled by the fear of being among those who fell off the load. Fornebu is an excellent residential area. One suggestion could be that both the State and the Municipality of Oslo used the opportunity to acquire fine plots, which both the city and the state need. They should be sold. For example, if they are to be sold cheaply, and there is to be money for something in this case, they should. have been granted to student housing — it would have been a good educational policy — or to non-profit housing, which is also needed. So it would have been given to someone who actually needs it. If the area is to be sold to the maximum bidder, and that should be the principle, I would say that it is to be sold at the market price, and then you have to put the money into school, like primary school, spend it on IT equipment, on the development of skills, and not least on the teachers. Many of them don't know about a computer, and that's not because they don't want to, but because they don't get enough funds for training. Strengthen universities and strengthen research! The Workers' Party and the majority now propose risks tearing up professional environments both in industry and in education and putting us back in time for many years. Those who have made this idea of IT Fornebu do not have the competence to develop the IT industry and the IT competence in Norway in the future. Rather, we should spend that money in the higher education sector, in universities and in institutions, who basically know what they're doing, and who can do that job without destroying the environments of competence around the country. Instead, it is being invested in the happy amateurs in the IT industry through IT Fornebu. What kind of ownership the country gets and how these values are to be secured is completely uncertain. For example, why does this mean: The working party that it is better to spend money on a project of competence that almost nobody wants, rather than using these values in school? We have not received an answer to that. And when many people want to invest in this field, strengthen the IT industry and make this market work, wouldn't it have been right to sit down and analyse what areas in the IT field it would have been right to invest in, what impacts on research and development projects and competences in general? You don't get to know that with the method you've been using right now. There has also been a light in the matter that this money has actually been used for something else. They had been introduced as a prerequisite for the decision on the Gardermo, they were going to finance it. Such things are easily forgotten. I'm not going to trace the debate, but I want to remember that some projects can be adopted with such leadership, and you get the economy in port because you have such leadership. Most projects crack – we've seen that. In addition, the funding you have promised is gradually being abandoned. I don't think I should explain so carefully that this creates both a lack of economic governance and problems in getting accepted for the decisions you make when using such methods. Many other questions are unanswered. Should, for example: investors shoot in the same way, as was said in a TV debate yesterday? There's nothing there about it anywhere. And how is such a company to be governed? The case of IT Fornebu shows at least one thing, and it's that nothing is impossible in politics just that you're rich enough and know the right people. But what has happened in this case, I think, is more serious than what is common here in the country. I have been thinking a lot about what has been going on in the back of this case, and I am not thinking about the cooperation between the Labour Party and the Investor Forum, because it is easy to guess. The guys there are pretty familiar with the pants of the Workers' Party, they've been there before and they know where to print. But one actor has sat here and pulled the strings, got his wishes into the setting and got what he wanted. It confirmed the representative Hedstrøm in his post, where he tailored this to the shipowners, to whom it was not possible to give more because they have already received zero in tax, so now they have to get it in cash. But I wonder what has been going on in the back room between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. One day, the party of progress is declared to be the great enemy to be fought against. You go to the center to give the Progress Party too much influence into Norwegian politics. I can't agree more with anyone than I am with the Working Party in it, we have to end it. But what do they do? In large, important matters, they take the party of progress into the back room and come out again with the bloating cheek as new-in love teenagers, and don't want to say what they've done. They don't want us to know either, because they don't want open hearings. They've seen a light together, and no one else will see it. There are very many open questions in this case, and the reality of the matter is actually quite serious. I perceive that this matter is largely about Education-Norway and whether we should put Education-Norway on rails and where to stand. If the visions of IT fornebu and Investor Forums are realised, there will be major negative consequences, both for industry and for education. There's other ways to do this that we know works, and then we should do it. I have to say that I am terribly afraid that the mood that was created around this project initially and that made all parties, except SV, feel that they had to be in, it has made us have a table-capture situation, which is now difficult to get out of. The only possibility is that one day, suddenly, it will cost those who are going into this project, several billion kroner to be in it. I believe, like the representative from the Right who was in the Chair instead, that that money will not be on the table. We'll have to find other solutions. Then I want IT industry and Education Norway to put a strong lead on how the different parties will deal with that issue, and not strong lobbyist groups, who do not need at all such assistance as they have received through this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e683	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e686	Karin Andersen makes a very big point that the Labour Party and the Advance Party cooperate in this matter. In the next case we will handle in Stortinget, SV and the Progress Party are only concerned about a comment. I just want to mention that the alliances vary from case to case in this room. There is also no SV clean on the hands, if it was meant to give the impression. What can be said about SV is that they have been consistent in this matter. But I'm still wondering if Karin Andersen has spent the most time reading newspapers and suspicious claims from actors who are interested in spreading ignorance about this, rather than reading the setting. The message in the post was basically: Listen to SV, not to the happy amateurs. There was a lot about what you didn't want to do, and then you didn't say anything about information technology. Then I have to ask SV: Does SV mean that the information and communication technology environment is international? If they mean what I would believe, do they mean that Norway is going to participate in international competition in this sector or in this area of competence? How, then, will SV ensure that our own excellence finds it challenging and interesting enough to stay in Norway and ensure that we get international actors to find it interesting to come here to interact with Norwegian actors, for the benefit of students, learners and current industries throughout the country? And did I understand a previous line from the representative Andersen right when I realized that SV was opposed to state governance in this context? Is this a new course for SV?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e693	There is no new course from SV at all. But first I want to say that if you try to compare e.g. issues relating to procedures to allow a local government to set up a nursery school with IT Fornebu, the Eastern Region or the relocation of state jobs, do not even become the mouse and the elephant, it becomes the lusa and the elephant of something like that. So to the question of whether no SV had any solutions. In fact, SV believes that we should realise these values and spend the money at school, at colleges, universities, research – what the industry is asking for. SV actually takes the industry and Education Norway seriously in this case. We think they're better off with this than with Fred. Olsen and IT Fornebu have. It's the industry that says they don't want this. It is SV who in this case is on the team with the industry. IT is an international industry – you the world, that’s exactly the point. I'm not so afraid of the Foreground Party's idea of a fifth university at Fornebu. There's going to be a university, and it'll be an open university, where one sits at home, or one sits in classrooms around and takes in and picks up education from educational institutions around the world. It will come, and that's the situation we have to prepare for, so that quite a country gets to share IT knowledge and other knowledge. So the solution you're choosing now, that of using government money to clump this together at Fornebu, is in conflict with what this industry is thinking, and how we know that this development is going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e702	The representative Karin Andersen insinuates that there should have been some contacts between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party that should in some way be abnormal compared to what is perfectly normal in Stortinget when dealing with matters. It is true that the vast majority of issues that come to be dealt with by the Storting are dealt with in the Grand Committees. The committee meetings are closed for media. In this case, it was not until the evening before it was ready for delivery and all the parties had taken their stand, among other things. on the basis of extensive consultations within the Committee, although not open, the proposal for open consultations was put forward. What makes the representative Karin Andersen think that anything has been going on abnormal in dealing with this matter in relation to all other matters? Other representatives have also made such insinuations. I should like to hear why. Is it just because the Labour Party and the Advance Party have come to the same point of view in a matter of slightly greater importance – with different starting points, perhaps, and slightly different views on long-term prospects? Is it just that the Progress Party and the Workers' Party have agreed, which is the reason for suspicion? So the representative talks as if there was any problem that this money was going to Oslo Airport. I would like to refer to page 22 of the statement, where it is answered by the State Council Sponheim on the question: ‘How will the Government compensate for any reduction in equity added at Oslo Airport A/S as a result of any leadership put on the sale of the state’s property at Fornebu?’ Here is the answer: ‘As stated in the above statement, the entire amount of SEK 2,3 billion has already been allocated to the Swedish Aviation Agency in the State budget for 1999.’ These revenues will only strengthen the ability to invest more money into the oil fund; they have no other meaning. Why does Karin Andersen speak as if it has any meaning for other expenses?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e719	The last first: I'm talking about it because I want to remind you that some establishment decisions and some investment decisions are made with such leadership and assumptions. They're going to be broken, and there's a breach of a decision. You can agree on it afterwards, but you get projects in this way. And some of them wouldn't have been realized if you had gotten the funding you see in retrospect. Why does it look like it smells like sweat? Well, we're doing it because you've obviously come to an agreement here, and then you refuse other insights into what's been going on. And you refuse to see why you've chosen such solutions. The result of this coalition is completely abnormal, and there are no answers to important questions that Stortinget believes we should have answers to before we make a choice. Some of us may have been in the back room sometimes and come out again and didn't want to say what we did there. But there aren't so many places you can use as formalistic reasons to deny transparency as it is in the Storting, and it's using Hagen now. He's good at it, but he should also now say that we have nothing to hide, let's send this case back again and get all the things out on the table. I feel that the Progress Party here does not trust that the arguments hold such a light, and that is why they refuse transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e724	There are two ways to approach new visions, new ideas and thoughts. One is to ask yourself what positive or negative the new plans will bring with them. The other way to approach this is to ask, what can we get out of the new thing that had to come? In my view, both questions are equally important. It makes me ask the following questions to SV: How will SV prevent anyone from establishing an IT centre at Fornebu, cf. that, with the exception of the votes of the SV, the Storting has said that it will come, and that it will be of international importance? That's the one. The second is: how will the SV ensure that the public interests related to education can prevent the extraction of districts for competences, etc.? How to prevent this if the state is not to be involved in what is being established, for example. public authorities, educational institutions and universities cannot govern what is to be done with regard to education? So Karin Andersen said that the IT industry itself has to set the premises. I think that's a little alarming, because this is where SV suddenly got a sense of the free cancers' game.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e733	No, it's probably someone else who's sparing money into the pockets of the free forces here. SV has had a policy with a strong focus on education and research from high school up to the university. That's the way we think we can control this best, and we're going to hold on to it, because that's the right one. I believe that the representative, Mr Breimo, should notice that representatives from the industry yesterday also said that this was the best way. The best way is not to throw money into the industry as such, the best way is to provide infrastructure, so that they get the skills they need. That's what we're going to do, and we're actually also going to have the opportunity to have full control of that. Then there is a question of how SV can prevent such an establishment. No, it's the power that comes, so we can't stop it. And if that first happens, I hope you can put in some leads here that can take care of some interests. You can make a decision in Stortinget that says this should not affect anyone. Establish this big vacuum cleaner out there, but please don't let it go out on anyone. It's naive, because it's going to happen. So our point is that we actually have to think in a different way. That I'm going to be able to prevent this today, I don't think so, but what I think is going to prevent it, is the intention that I've come across in the majority decision, that the private investors go in with the corresponding sums, I hope. Or maybe they should be in the minority position-- I don't even know. There'll be at least a lot of money out of it, and I'd like to see who's putting billions on the table to be in this project.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e741	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e744	The issue of setting up an IT centre at Fornebu is a good example for me and Left of why it was healthy with a government change. This concerns important principles of democracy and power use and important policy areas such as higher education, business development and district policy. Something positive has already been achieved. We have prevented Norway's most valuable site from immediately being disposed of to one group of investors who ‘existed a very special trust’ to quote the former Minister of Administration of the Workers' Party Nils Totland. We have now come so far that all parties assure that there will be a fair and real competition for the properties – although I still disagree deeply in the way that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party want to organise it. Furthermore, it has been a crucial point for the Left to ensure that universities and other research and training institutions are controlled by their own activities at Fornebu, and to govern the scope and professional content of the educational activities to be carried out there. I see that the Workers' Party in the form of a note assures me that they are also in favour of this. But I have also noticed that the realities of the proposal are still clear – that the educational activities will be included in a joint ownership company together with the other activities. This is something our educational environments don't want at all. With good reason, they're afraid of the consequences. Not least, I have noticed that the Progress Party says that the road is now open to a fifth private university in Norway, which has every reason to fear competition from the established universities. Such statements scare me, but obviously not the partner of the Workers' Party. When the Left has supported the idea that there should be an IT centre on Fornebu, it has been assumed that it makes the best possible contribution to knowledge environments and industrial development elsewhere in the country. I have to say that with the visions of the Workers' Party and the Advancement Party, I share the fear that many areas of competence around the country now have for Fornebu to become a young person in IT-Norway. There is already a major shortage of people with IT skills in this country. With the dimensions that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party will give this Centre, there is a great danger that other parts of the country will be dust-sucked for the best people – at least if the Fornebu farms are to be lured with subsidised land and more access to research and development resources than elsewhere. Something is wrong when the IT industry itself shakes its head about the idea of centralising the country’s most decentralised industry, excluding agriculture and fishing. The vision of a Norwegian Silicon Valley is pompous and real-life and is thirty years late. I think the public debate we have had on the Fornebu case over the past few weeks has been exciting and clarifying, although unfortunately it has not made any impression on the Labour Party and the Progress Party. We have now got on the table that half of that area Fred. Olsen & Co. requires to carry out their vision, to go to the construction of 2,100 dwellings, sports and culture. This is what the government is going to buy out Oslo's properties to realise. We now know that the IT industry itself is largely uninterested in moving to Fornebu. IT environments elsewhere in the country fear that a giant bet on Fornebu will vacuum IT competence from the rest of the country. The established education institutions with NTNU at their head are fundamental sceptical about being overrun by a joint ownership company as requested by IT-Fornebu, the Workers' Party and the Progress Party. And not least: the research environments of the same type we already have, for example. The research park AS in the Gaustadbeck valley in Oslo, tells us that they have never experienced any interest from Fred. Olsen, Gudmund Hernes or others who have seen the 'IT light'. But then it is not on Norway's Riviera, as Norsk Investorforum's chief lobbyist Per Morten Vigtel so aptly says about Fornebu in the evening post the other day. It's great that Fred. Olsen and others have visions of what Norway will live on in the future. I have to say that the more that comes on the table in this matter, the more strongly it attaches itself to the impression that after all, it is empty and the location well as much as the vision that drives IT fornebu. The left has a vision that the IT industry is going to benefit the whole country, and that what is going to happen at Fornebu is going to be part of it. Therefore, the Left will vote against the position of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party as it now exists.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e776	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e779	I brought up Innst. S. No 232 for 1997-98, which is the setting developed in connection with the IT message processed in June last year. The Left actually contributed to the leadership of the IT and knowledge centre that we were going to have on Fornebu, and that the Labour Party and the Progress Party have followed up and put into practice to a greater degree. I want to refer a little bit of what Left was on here: ‘The majority would point out that the long-term interests of the State with the Fornebu area and the plans for a knowledge centre must be safeguarded either the solutions chosen are the sale of the property of the State, joint ownership with private interests or state ownership of parts of the property.’ Thus, there was a room for action here.It goes on to say:‘In a possible ownership company, municipalities of Oslo and Bærum can be invited to participate. The majority will underline the need to speed up a business that can link education and development as quickly as possible.’» When I hear the representative, Kongshaug, I actually get the impression that he is more or less against the entire IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. I went into the Internet, at the Press Office of the Left, which writes that the Liberal Forum has the rank of Left's largest saying this year. It was that Sponheim had managed to stop the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. So I'm actually wondering, is the representative of Kongshaug still standing at what he was on last year? And what about the position and suggestions of the majority committee that break with what this was put up to?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e797	For the Left, it is important to create an IT and knowledge centre in the interaction between education, research and business, that this must be dynamic, and that there must be equal partners involved in such cooperation. It is true, as the representative Rudihagen says, that in June we were in the framework of the decision that was taken. But it has always been a prerequisite for the Left that this must be done on the basis of the interests we have in order that our decentralised educational institutions around the country continue to get living conditions and get involved in this game in an equivalent way, and not enter in such a way that they feel somehow overrun. This is a case that has had a strong development since it was first treated, and only in one to two years are there parties that have turned completely upside down in relation to what they thought before, among other things. The party of progress. I'm sorry. But as far as the Left is concerned, I am quite certain in my case: what we are now dealing with today is the right thing, not least because of the developments in the matter that we have seen in the past, where we can refer to recordings and letters from institutions that have gradually become aware of what is happening, not least from our already established university and competence environment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e806	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e809	Fornebu's IT Competence Center case is not about subsidising Fred. Oil or others with billions of dollars. It is a matter of putting the state's ownership into a company to influence the state's development and to share in the increase in value. Nor is it about vacuuming District Norway for IT competence. It is about stopping or slowing down the relocation of IT skills and attracting skills from other countries. This matter is not a matter of a new private university. It is about giving universities and universities the opportunity to connect their education to researchers and businesses within high-level industrial IT. The government with government council Sponheim in the head did not like the Stortinget's view of the development of an IT competence centre at Fornebu, as expressed in Innst. S. No 232 from June 1998. The news of the crash we're discussing today is a rematch from the Government's side. The government has to take the consequences that they won't win this time either. What consequences does the State Council draw Sponheim? There is reason to ask this question, not least by your government council and others from the government party have argued against the plurality of false claims, both before and after the committee gave its decision. A number in Stortinget mean the same thing today as in June 1998. Right, it's not the government party and the Labour Party that make up the plural, as it was in June 1998, but it's a plural that thinks it's the same now as it was then. The size of the population is also expected today to contribute to the establishment of a national IT competence centre of international format at Fornebu. The government party is probably the same as the plurality in itself, as in June, but they won't agree to give the government the marshalls. I can understand that. It must be embarrassing that their own state councils will not follow up. There's a reason to notice that only the Right is without politics in this important area. The most important thing for Right is to sell the Fornebu area to the highest bidder. Some thoughts about how an IT competence centre should develop have not, except to suspect other parties, led in the scene by the representative Gabrielsen. I'm not surprised that business is wondering what's going on in the Right. Since the government council Sponheim and the government did not take advantage of the action space provided by the June 1998 setting, the setting we are discussing today is much more a marshalling earth. The question is, will the government council Sponheim and the government follow up? The size requires a concrete answer to this question. The councils have created the impression that he wants to do everything in his power to prevent the majority from getting through. I can assure the Council of State that we shall follow him with eagles' eyes. Why is this matter so important, and why is it urgent? As so many times before, Norway has a tendency not to meet the challenges in time. We see that several countries have either built or are in the process of building up such centres as the majority of Stortinget wants the state to participate at Fornebu. We see that it is an increasing trend that major Norwegian enterprises set up research and development departments in other countries. Many of our leading IT researchers are coming out. The working party wants a national IT competence centre of international format, so that important Norwegian research and development environments are established in Norway and not abroad. Where a power to link education, research and nutrition gets one of the most innovative environments. Norway needs many such environments, including one of the international formats. It is claimed that a strong IT centre on Fornebu will vacuum District Norway for IT competence. At best, the claim is crazy. In fact, they do not find it interesting enough today to work in Norway and search out. The transfer of competences is, therefore, taking place today from the districts of Oslo and out of the country. This development we will stop. Developments in the last year have shown how vulnerable the Norwegian economy is to fluctuations in oil revenue. It is claimed that 40,000 jobs are at risk before the oil and offshore industry. At the same time, Norway has a more one-sided industrial structure than most other countries in Europe. Norway has only half as much business in telecommunications and IT as Sweden and Finland. The new industrial activities must primarily be created before the knowledge-intensive industries with high growth potential. Fornebu represents a historic national chance to create a new dynamic business cluster. Whether we like it or not, there are few places where there are adequate skills, capital and customers to develop an international focus for certain types of knowledge-based business. Fornebu is a unique starting point for being a place where you can close with such a knowledge view. We should be glad that there are heavy Norwegian investor groups who are willing to invest large amounts of industrial capital in creating a new research and knowledge centre in Norway. Of course, such capital is not channelled into development projects in Norway. The most common and, in any event, the easiest thing to do is to become a financial investor and invest money abroad. Most large enterprises and financial groups do just that. It is decisive that private competent and long-term capital interacts with the State. The State should be an active participant for two reasons: to invest in what is one of the strongest growth industries, and house value growth to invest in order to be involved and influence developments in the direction that society wants Norway has a strong need to invest in the new growth industries. Norway has a strong commodity-based business, the growth potential before these industries are low. Norway, as a nation, will have an increasing wealth gap in the next hundred years. This must be filled if we are to ensure well-being. A strong national IT competence centre of international format at Fornebu will be an important element of such a strategy. If we connect the IT competence centre to the ever-increasing forest of small and medium-sized IT enterprises around the country, and increasingly use distance learning, we have been closed. The State shall not participate in mild gifts, but shall participate in and invest in future for the benefit of value creation and thus of well-being. State Council Sponheim's handling of this matter has led to a very small level of trust in the Council of State. We want to give the Council of States another chance, but the Council of States must now make it clear that he takes the majority of the Storting seriously, especially when it applies to the deadline and guidelines for the choice of a private actor. Then I must be allowed to comment on the post of the representative Apelthun Seele. She said about the following: when one gives so much money to the five richest men in the country, "then there must be something else behind it than what is in the papers." There's every reason to ask, what else is behind it? It is not acceptable to the other party to suspect that there are no honest motives behind it. I ask the representative of Apelthun Sæle to clarify this. This is a language that I have never heard from before, and I have been here for a relatively long time!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e860	It has been said that the debate and the issue of post-use of Fornebu is a scandal. I agree with the heart. If this case and the use of Fornebu had been properly managed, the excavators would of course have moved in on 9 October last year. Then you would have finished with the control plans in Bærum for the longest time, you would have had the plans for what that area would be used for, finished a year before moving out and ready to start work. Now there is dead capital out there because of the lack of governance in government, both the sitting and the previous. Naughty follow-up from many – that's what's the scandal. Then there's an initiative, a vision, presented by, as some say, an old man. Why do you say "old man"? Is there anything wrong with the fact that older people also participate in the social debate and that they have views? So it's been said that it's a rich person. Is it wrong that someone, when everyone wants to be, has become rich? Is it so wrong that some things to get into business, creating jobs, building the country? There have been talk of some people in this debate as if they are some cellar rings and snouts. It's about Fred. Olsen, and this is Anders Wilhelmsen & Co AS, who has created quite a number of jobs, and who sent a letter to the committee signed by Gunnar P. Brand. This is about Bjørn Lillekändlie from SINTEF. Is Sintef also looking to clean up? Asmund Slögedal, Mosvold Farsund AS, who has been involved in many business start-ups, has been involved in and built up businesses and created jobs for others. Furthermore, I can mention Jens Ulltveit-Moe in the Ulltveit-Moe group, which is a large shipbuilder, who has participated in the structuralisation of several shipyards, modernized them and made them competitive. Does he deserve to be bullied? This also applies to Jan Balstad in the Landsorganisationen in Norway, and I see today that Yngve Högensen is also behind these plans. Is this like impossible for others? We have disagreed with the Landsorganisation in many cases, but that does not mean that we expect it to be made up of a bunch of cellar rings that are not interested in building the country or interested in innovation. This negative attitude that permeates this debate is completely meaningless. The Norwegian Bank and Ole Gunnar Selvaag of the Selvaag Group are part of IT Fornebu AS. Of course, the group has just been known for building, to go other ways and think of new things. They've almost always fought the authorities, but traditionally it was the workers' party authorities they're fighting. So now it's the right and middle parts that they have to fight to get to something. Jan H. Møller in Møller Investor AS and Michael Tetzschner at Handelshöjskolan BI are part of IT Fornebu. That should make it ring a bell for someone in the right. Michael Tetzschner is not a good friend of Carl I. Hagen, you know that from Oslo. Maybe the Right should talk a little bit to Michael Tetzschner in this case? Then we have Ole Petter Håkonsen in Telenor AS and Torolf Aadnesen in the Norwegian Veritas. These are the ones that are now referred to as being smarter looking to make some cheap money and to get gifts. Is it really the big crowd -- sorry, now I forgot a little, sir. President, in fact, I represent the bulk of the population. So is it the minority of the population that only politicians can have visions, that there are only politicians who can be interested in building the country, and that there are only politicians who are going to create something, and that every time there are any private ones, they are going to be stopped in death and life? It doesn't make any sense. Now we have major problems in Norwegian society. The oil business is on fire, it's bone-hard rationalization. We are receiving signals of ring-effects and problems in the yard industry. What is the focus of the Government and Minister of Industry Lars Sponheim? Well, to stop the only positive initiative and commitment to something that can have the future apart. Think about whether government council Sponheim, the government and the Right had used the same creativity they have shown to stop something – found on a lot of dubious arguments, which have been answered thoroughly in the past – to create something, to build something, to establish something, and to have some thoughts about what we're going to live on in this country in the future. It is possible that this vision of getting a large international centre to combine private and public activities, which will combine someone to work 70 pst. in business and use 30 pst. to teach and therefore to ensure that they are up-to-date, will not work, it is possible. There's a lot of problems, there's a lot of challenges, there's a lot that's not clear, but if you never want anything, at least you don't get anything else. And the people I've mentioned the names have proved to be good before. It turns out they know a lot. Of course, many IT companies are negative. We met a single person in a TV program yesterday who was presented as a representative of the industry. She represented IBM, which will not be involved in building Norway, which has no vision of establishing research in Norway, which sees this as a competitor. There are many IT companies that do not want to compete. The same applies to educational institutions, which will have no competition from anything new that may be a combination of private participation in a dynamic. As I've said in some interviews, there's a lot here. We have the management systems at our universities with life-assurance jobs if you have become a professor first – even if you don't do anything worth mentioning later, you never get quit. It is clear that the established educational institutions are terrified of competition, just as they were terrified of competition when BI was established. It's exactly the same argument when someone's going to establish something new in education and research, just that they're coming from the Right and the Middle Parties. You're terrified of competition. That's why we're for. There are some people who have insinuated that this has happened something. You used an expression that I can't repeat, because it was the club of the president -- everybody remembers what it was. And something strange in the back rooms? It has been a very normal procedure. Many ask why the Progress Party is in it. Our representative Øystein Hedstrøm has given a good answer in a very good post. There are no other reasons than what Hedstrom presented in his post. We see the possibility that we can actually get to something that is a connection between rational thinking in public and private, getting the dynamics and the wealth of ideas, the momentum and all that is flexibility and fast implementation from the private. From the public sector, the link with the existing educational institutions and the education sector is a public responsibility. It's nothing harder than that. And then it's this suspicion. You give away. The representative Jan Petersen spoke of NOK 2-3 billion. He has not even read the configuration. The answer from Sponheim on p. 19 says that the value can be approximately. SEK 1.5 billion. ‘From this amount, estimated expenditure on cleaning, removal of pollution, asphalt and other costs should be deducted, as well as the expected share of new infrastructure and greening that cannot be charged to purchasers.’ And then we're in a billion dollars. This is where you deliberately use the triple amount, and then you pretend this is going to be given. There is no system other than independent tariff under EEA legislation. If you think Steen & Stroem and maybe Wei Deck or Bøhler – who are interested exclusively in the properties as property – might not have taken a little chat between themselves. Is it open competition? Had there been many potential buyers – yes. But market rate is something other than loan rate. Market rate is that people who are experts on this will try to estimate what is the right price. Where was the minority when you did this for Telenor AS? Telenor AS has taken over an empty space out there. I don't remember the whole number, I think it was 449 million. kr at tariff. Norwegian Forest has done the same. It's common for people to put values into a corporation and start something -- it could be patents, buildings, ideas, goodwill, machines -- that the system is such that someone puts a rate on the value they put into the company and gets shares like that, while others put cash in. It's not worse than that. So the minority says that you don't want a simple company to be the engine and the dynamics that are going to organize it all. Who in the world is going to organise the implementation of this center, which also the minority are involved in, if not a company that is given the task of implementing it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e888	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e891	Attack is as well-known the best defense, and Hagen goes high on the field to defend what he has led the Advance Party into. He's trying to give the impression that it's in between, is a visionary idea of an IT and competence center at Fornebu represented by the majority, against the one-dimensional and narrowed concern about the government's revenue. It's going to be completely wrong. There is a broad consensus in Stortinget that we should have a centre for IT and competence development at Fornebu. The minority have opposed this approach, which is designed to serve it in a booth for some interest groups. The accusation is not directed against IT Fornebu. They've done a very good job. And I'd like to wish, just like Hagen has asked, that there were other groups that took an offensive action and presented themselves. The appeal is in such a way that the majority facilitates the one interest group that has taken this initiative. We want more inside, so that we get a good return on the invested capital of the very valuable properties that lie on Fornebu, so that these valuable properties get the best solution that can be imagined. Maybe it's IT Fornebu, maybe there's other interest groups. In this respect, the majority of the Storting should not propose a formal negotiation procedure that prevents other interesting stakeholders from getting on the road. I would like to ask Mr Hagen a very specific question. It states that private and public interests are to enter a joint ownership company, and that the State is to deposit its properties into that company, whether it is 1, 2 or 3 billion kroner. What proportion do you think, sir? Does it make sense for private investors to come in? And does he agree that if this amount is significantly less than the state contribution, will it involve State funding of this very important project?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e898	Einar Steensnæs said attack is the best defense. Yeah, he came up with an expert proof of that. I don't need any defense, but I understand that Einar Steensnæs has it, when he is involved in this suspicion, which he really is, and continues to talk about 1, 2 and 3 billion dollars after the Council of State – the responsible one – has said that it is at best about 1.5 billion kroner, and that you have to subtract quite a few hundred million dollars. kr in cleaning up. Nevertheless, he shall maintain this misunderstanding. So he says, and I'm glad that there is a broad consensus in the Storting that an international information and knowledge centre should be established. But he does not say that the minority has not said anything about how to organise the implementation of it if it is not a company that gets the assignment. Actually, I almost wanted to stop the matter just to let the government sit there dangling in the loose air and not know what to do to get it to. There must be someone who gets the assignment. And there it is, as it says in the setting, competition. Steensnæs says he would wish there were other groups who took an offensive grip. But it hasn't been! Do you have to punish the one who has already invested a lot of millions of dollars, built up a staff, built up competence, traveled around the world – those who have done a lot? Are they to be punished because no one else has? Because that's the actual ratio. No one else has. If someone comes to present the same good or better plans, they'll get the award when they decide this before 1 June. But then they have to present better plans. What we have said is that negotiations are about to take place, and the last question is of course the subject of the kind of negotiations to be conducted. What is the principle is that the government, the state, shall have shares equal to the value of what they put in.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e908	I guess it belongs to Carl I. Hagen's self-esteem that he should always tell others how he's right and how others are wrong. As such, he taught both me and Steensnæs that we had not understood how the values are set here. I just want to remind him that the point he's forgotten is that Oslo Municipality's land is also involved in this, in the majority's opinion. He forgot that reasoning. I think maybe Carl I. Hagen should be considerably more careful about telling what others have read and not read. Otherwise he kept his posts at a very general level about and against having visions, for and against being positive and for and against having something to live off in the future. It's a relatively pointless approach, but it shows one thing, that Carl I. Hagen has become so excited that he has forgotten to ask some questions. The most important thing he said in his post was the following: Mass is not clear. He's right about that. That is why we have now raised the question of open hearings, because the very treatment that should have been clarified, namely the committee procedure, has not given it despite the fact that the case is through the Storting for the fourth time. These include: shall take place here: a large company with significant State ownership and influence shall be established without any treatment whatsoever in the suspension. Yes, we are told in a TV debate. Now I want to ask Hagen if he could explain in a sober and straightforward way what this company should consist of, how the state's involvement should be, whether what he said first yesterday in the debate is right, namely that the private would not have to pay more than half a billion kroner, so that we get a state majority structure, or whether it is such that it should be a 50-50 construction. In short, can Mr. Hagen explain this key question that is not mentioned in the setting? It is quite peculiar that the Progress Party of all goes into the brink of this big state company. Once upon a time they had principles in these areas, but those who had the principles have well left the party, as far as I understand.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e917	It seemed almost as if Jan Petersen felt that all the reasonable people who can do anything have left the Progress Party. That's why it's going so bad for the Progress Party right now, and it's going so well for the Right, because that's where most of them have ended up. So the truth outside is pretty different. Then Jan Petersen tries to talk about the municipality of Oslo. What Jan Petersen mentioned earlier is that the state should give away NOK 2-3 billion – the state's values, not Oslo's. That's what's maximum half a billion dollars and probably less, according to Sponheim. The municipality of Oslo is fully capable of caring for its own interests. If it is not the Right Town Council, I believe that the Labour Party and the Advance Party will be. As far as this company is concerned, of course, it is that once this has started, has been active and is in order, the need for the State to own the shares of these companies will be greatly reduced, and one can subsequently sell out some of the shares in our opinion. Nevertheless, the state will not be able to get rid of and sort out these things in the short term, once again according to the letter from Sponheim. I recommend that Jan Petersen read the letter from Sponheim in this setting. As far as the Coke region is concerned, there are so many legal problems and differences of opinion between SAS and the State that we are talking about a long-standing conflict in the judiciary. It can be solved in the ways that the majority of people here have said. Then he comes with some details. The remarkable thing is that here in Stortinget we have a lot of issues where we make less detailed decisions than what it's put up for here. I remember a decision that Jan Petersen's party voted in favour of, namely, the construction of a new main airfield on the Gardermo, which was, of course, a right-wing profit that we got, with all the misery it's created. The decision there was even shorter than here. We assume that all these other things of what I call detail are carried out by the executive. Otherwise, I would just notice that it would have been reasonable if Gabrielsen had read the entire fax from Willoch and not only the pronounced little piece that he found it too good to refer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e932	Since the suspension was given, both Carl I. Hagen and others from the Progress Party have expressed their opinion on the role of the public education system in this matter.The 'breath meat' of the university and research institutions is being competitive at a high time, Carl I. Hagen stated in the Official Journal of Bergen. But really it is Per Sandberg who has released the cat from the bag when he says the following to the Address Paper: ‘NTNU, Sintef and the University of Oslo have every reason to be concerned about the establishment of an IT and knowledge centre’... ‘There has also been one of the main points behind the Progress Party’s conduct. It is clear that the Progress Party has gone for this as a lead towards what is referred to as a fifth private university in Norway. Against this background could it be interesting to hear whether Carl I. Hagen also believes that in the position currently being treated, it is such, as the people of the Progress Party claim, that there are indications of the future prospects of the public education system described in this interview?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e942	No, there are no such leads in this setting at all, but it is certainly a good idea for a party to have some long-term views and thoughts that are not detailed and not fixed, but that are possibilities, and then express it. I have not placed any such leadership. There is probably a great deal of disagreement between the Labour Party and the Advance Party. But we see that getting competition into the educational environments is the whole of our program and our policy permeated by it. Yes, even the Right is really concerned about it when they want price finance in the school as well. That's the point of getting competition. So there's also the Right on our line, and can't be against it – especially when Michael Tetzschner's from BI. That there is doughnut in the university – yes, if you have a management system where there are a lot of people who have a clear employment for their entire lifetime, regardless of their own work effort, it is absolutely impossible that there will not be a good part that has good days. I took a little test the other day. I called the universities and asked to send them the catalogue they had with Internet-transmitted lectures, which is the new thing – distance learning. Ordinary lectures on the Blind should be able to be transmitted via the Internet to other teaching places around the country. It's like, among other things, IT Fornebu has been talking about, and has made agreements with other universities around the world. What I got from these universities was question mark. They didn't even understand the problem. Where are the plans and views for really meeting the revolution that comes about using IT in teaching, with these new classrooms? They weren't there, because the universities don't need to follow the class, they don't have any competition. They're getting their appropriations from here. They are almost not even required. So the fact that it becomes competition, we think it's fine. Think about it all of a sudden there were people and students who started at this new study and competence center and followed lectures from universities all over the world, and then there was a lack of students at some other places. Then you start to tighten up, and that's also very good for the educational institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e951	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e954	What is this case about? At least it is not about visionary ideas versus near-sighted concern about the income of the state fund. It is, as I said in the reply of the representative Hagen, a broad majority in the Stortinget who wants such an IT and competence centre at Fornebu. But the issue is how to put this idea into practice, so that there will be competition for the attractive areas, and that this competition will be wide and fair, so that the best proposal can be realised. The Working Party and the Advance Party have become extremely diligent in quoting from previous committee comments in the setting there, among others. The center parts are included, to give some kind of proof that that's what we agreed on. But unfortunately, there is a considerable distance between the Christian People's Party that premises the development of an IT centre on Fornebu, and the project for which the Labour Party and the Advance Party will hold a majority here today. Int. S. No 193 for 1997-98, we supported the creation of a centre of expertise at Fornebu ‘in cooperation with established educational institutions and knowledge-based enterprises’. The reactions we have received from different teams — from educational institutions up to treatment here in the United Kingdom today, as well as from the IT community — show that these assumptions are more than doubtful. We are also critical of the fact that the state is so significantly involved in capital in the form of buildings and properties, where private investors are taking the lead in planning and planning. Now Carl I. Hagen confirms that it is not at all such that a claim is made for a share in the case of private investors. On the other hand, the State shall add all its properties and values to the company, and private investors shall participate to the extent they wish. But the entire management of the project is in private hands. In our view, this is an inadequate or responsible solution. But unfortunately, the project is not without a good portion of risk. Therefore, it is understandable when IT Fornebu presents sketches covering much larger areas of the project, so that it also includes significant provisions for dwellings – 2 100, mentioned in the setting. This will, of course, significantly reduce the risk in the project, because here we have residential areas of what was mentioned as internal file quality. We're critical of using taxpayers' money this way. In order to be able to follow up the proposal behind the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, the State must also take the cost of redeeming the property of the Municipality of Oslo. The level of public investment is therefore significant. I also find it strange and striking that the Labour Party and the Advance Party have so clearly opposed open consultation in such an important matter. It won't be easier to understand when you hear the reason. Open consultation should have been required before, and an open consultation would mean an unacceptable delay of the project. This doesn't last. It is true that this case has a long history, but during this long period, new aspects and new recordings have emerged – up to treatment today. That the requirement of open consultation should have been made at an earlier stage in order to be complied with, I therefore believe that it is both sought and a syllable explanation as to why this proposal is rejected. Such a consultation will also have no impact on the progress of the project. Nothing is delayed if the requirement for an open consultation is complied with. It's a matter of spending a few weeks more on the committee, and we're not close to the first spatulas. In fact, the way this case has evolved over this long treatment period has been justified by doubts as to the consequences for both economic, political and principal leadership. In any case, the project is of such a scale that the Storting should take the necessary time to investigate the objections. There has been a recurring problem for Stortinget that new, large, costly and risky projects are being launched that prove not to keep what it has promised. If this project is as good as the Progress Party and the Workers' Party claims, there is also time to wait for a hearing. Then we have nothing to lose and nothing to fear.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e971	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e974	The Christian People's Party has been with the Workers' Party about all the leaders until the setting we are dealing with today. Then they jumped off. Let me also remind you that the Christian People's Party was involved in the decision on an IT centre of international importance. The state was supposed to be there, and Santa had to be big enough. For example, in the 1999 budget proposal: State Council Løwer that the Centre will have to seize parts of the districts of Oslo. In the Committee's comments on the same budget, the Christian People's Party is still with the Workers' Party. In an attempt to resolve the disagreement that has arisen, I would ask Steensnæs: is it just the degree of state participation that we now disagree on? If that is the case, does not the vulgar argument that is now used against the Workers' Party fall, unfortunately also from the Christian People's Party, that we give great values to the five richest in the country, on our own unfairness? And what does Steensnæs think that the only people who have presented a visionary arrangement for what he himself wants are just met with the shikes of prominent political actors? I would also like to ask: how will Steensnæs secure the public interests when the state is not heavy with, as the Christian People's Party initially wanted? The majority of the population today repeat the previous leaders and give the Government the necessary authority to follow up. That the opposition is strongly critical of the government at all times is natural, but that the parliamentary leader of the Prime Minister’s party does not have the confidence in his own government that it will be able to choose the right plan and assess the extent of public engagement is directly alarming. In any case, the matter shall be continued by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e983	This is not a matter of lack of confidence that the Government and the Minister of Industry will be able to take care of what has to be agreed in the Stortinget and will therefore provide guidance on how to design the IT centre and the competence centre at Fornebu. This is a lack of confidence and belief in what the majority is behind is the solution that best preserves the considerable resources that lie on Fornebu in the form of buildings and properties. It's going to have to be something to express. I think it is more than strange that the Workers' Party is so strongly opposed that a new round goes to find out what it is in the objections that have now come up in recent days – and I refer, among other things. to the letter from NTNU, by Vice-Chancellor Emil Spjötvoll – which is such that the Workers' Party will smoothly ignore the important objections and the strong concerns such as: Vice-Chancellor Spøtvoll gives an expression. What about the urgency that the Workers' Party seems to have in this matter, which means that one cannot listen to the objections expressed by the industry's own representative organisations, so that we can verify whether it is appropriate to adjust the arrangements for designing the IT and competence centre at Fornebu? I am also very critical of the way in which the majority proposal will involve State participation. The project itself is associated with significant risks, and in our view the best indication is the level of risk, the degree of private investors and private capital involved. It is this balance between state participation, to which I am positive, and private participation I think is biased and unfortunate, and which is therefore not reassuring as to how the state properties will be managed in the common company.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e992	It was then a touching concern for the majority as Mr. Stone sneeze now presented! Here I thought in my simplicity that he would have the hearing because he would ask questions to some people who might lead to him getting better informed and getting the matter better informed, and perhaps changed his mind. But no then, now he said right away that he would have the hearing so that the majority should understand that the majority is going wild! He's worried about the majority taking an unwise decision. That he disagrees with this majority position, we've always understood that. We do not need to have any hearings to Mr. Steensnees shall tell us that he disagrees with the majority position. We know that. A hearing must be because you want to be informed yourself, even wanting to get a better basis for taking your position. But he'll suddenly change the whole institute with open hearings to become a system and a method to influence someone else. I understand that this open hearing has been a postponement and a training proposal when you arrive the night before, because you've had all the hearings. I could ask you, sir. Steensnæs: To whom is the Christian People's Party going to ask questions, and which may cause the Christian People's Party to change its view of the reality of the matter? He must be able to answer. What kind of institutions or people are these? Steensnæs wants to attend a hearing that has not already been consulted, even if it was not open? If it was a wish to clarify the matter, why didn't the Christian People's Party propose open hearings at the beginning? And what should the Christian People's Party with open hearings really do to illustrate the matter when they are initially at the viewpoint of the Government? It was in the case of the Right that should be able to assess its positions. Is it really now that Mr. Steensnæs will be consulted in order to influence, through the consultation, the majority to take a different decision? And does he agree that he then gives open hearings the death blow? For it has never been the basis for open hearings to be used in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e999	It may well be that there is a basis for the amazement now expressed by Carl I. Hagen, if one through open hearings was actually to achieve that the majority was mindful and came to other conclusions. I'm not hiding that I think an open hearing will be useful both for the majority and, of course, also for the minority. I can't believe that an open hearing would prevent parties standing on each side of a case, both of them being able to benefit from going through the matter again in the light of new recordings. And, among others, The reason for the need for such new, open consultations is that a number of these institutions have expressed their views on the matter at a very early stage and, as the majority proposal and the leadership of the majority proposal have become known, considerable concerns have been raised, inter alia. in educational institutions as to the implications of the pooling of this competence at Fornebu in relation to the competences accumulated in different educational environments around the country. I think it would be very useful if those who now express themselves in a letter to the Stortinget, to the parliamentary leaders – referred here to Vice-Chancellor Spøtvoll at NTNU – were given the opportunity to elaborate their concerns, and what they are making as an important premise to support this project. NTNU has been positive about this, but they are now expressing concern about what this is. At the same time, we experience that the representative Hedstrom quotes letters from SINTEF that indicate a different attitude. The fact that the two Trondheims environments seem to signal different attitudes to the project would suggest that it was necessary to take a round on this. So there is no reason for Mr. The garden to be amazed. All the different signals that are now being played, and the various concerns that are expressed, despite previous hearing opinions, should indicate that a new, open consultation would be very useful for the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1009	The representative Steensnæs looks at the turbulence around the country, both at the university and before the IT environment. Yes, but then you also have to ask who created the turmoil. This includes: State Council Sponheim, there are others associated with the Government, and that is the Government Party. What kind of trouble have they created? Yeah, they've come up with claims that the state should subsidize shipowners and others with billions. But what may have caused the most concern is that it's been claimed that it's going to be a fifth university and a private university at Fornebu, which has nothing to do with reality. If there's such a disturbance that the representative Steensnæs is so concerned about, she's self-made, and when a user of the self-made unrest to demand an open hearing, I have to say that it's getting almost comical. We have had this message in the Committee since November and have had several hearings in the Committee. I should have liked to have seen that those hearings had gone for the open stage, because then many people would have had an experience of what kind of actors we're talking about that are willing to bet on in this area. I ask the representative Steensnæs: Will he admit that the unrest that has been created around the university and IT environments is something government and government itself owes?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1020	The concern that the representative Opseth now confirms to a significant extent is both in the educational and business environments is created by the majority and the lack of concreteisation in relation to what will happen in the joint venture with capital, in relation to public investment and private capital, and in relation to the extent to which the training will be paid to Fornebu. Carl. I. Hagen lists in his article a number of people who individually benefit from the project, but they are, as far as I could follow the list, all of them on the IT Fornebus side of this case, and it is of course not difficult to understand that they enthusiastically support the vision of the project. They've got all this served in a silver barrel. When the representative Opseth tries to put the responsibility for this turmoil on the Right and the Center parties, it is of course completely wrong. I can quote from the Address Paper where it says: ‘The party of the People's Party said yesterday that it was very satisfied with the Workers' Party's group decision... Now the party believes that the road has been paved for an independent fifth private university in Norway.’ One must not be surprised at the type of opinion and understanding of what is contained in the majority’s decision is disturbing the educational environment. I would argue that going into such a large project, which is so extensive both in principle and in economic and political terms, with so many unsolved questions hanging in the air here, requires a better reflection and that it is put on the bed. I believe that there have been too many projects in this process that have subsequently proved not to hold, either economically or otherwise. We should avoid getting into that situation again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1036	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1039	It should be unnecessary, but equally full: The size, with the exception of SV, believes it is desirable that the state participates actively – I repeat: that the state participates actively – in the process of realising the vision of an internationally attractive IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. This is the setting from 1997-98 added up. However, we have a Minister of Industry who, in addition to training the matter, is clearly critical of state involvement in business policy, and advocates the sale of goods to the highest bidder in response to important future challenges. At the same time, he provides the best possible attack on single investors who want to participate in Fornebu, where they believe to see a possible future value creation. With such an approach, it must be allowed to believe that the Minister of Industry, at best, gives an unclear picture of the industrial policy pursued by the Government. The working party believes that an interaction model is a better way to go. We just can't go into the future without thinking about it. Living with change and change is both painful and joyful, depending on who we are asking, but change is a natural part of life. Our business life is now experiencing turbulence, the way forward is uncertain. The main challenge for Norway is to be able to increase the value creation in the years ahead, in order to avoid cuts in our well-being goods. We do not think this is possible without close and systematic interaction between private actors, the state and our education and research institutions. Then we must enable ourselves to raise our eyes, but also dare to attach it and dare to take responsibility. We know that in the knowledge-based industries in particular, there will be the best profits and growth opportunities. In order to achieve economic growth, we have to have the ambition to get a larger share of such businesses than what we have today. This rotation of the industrial structure in Norway — for that is what we are talking about — towards more knowledge-based enterprises requires more research and development efforts, a higher level of education, but also enterprises that actively use the knowledge provided by research. That's where we know it's not that good. In this area, the Government and the Workers' Party have different views. As we understand the Minister of Industry, business should go its own way without any special or increased state effort. What the Labour Party wants, as we are now experiencing in more and more countries, is an increase in public spending, where businesses and countries are joining forces to consciously stimulate the emergence of knowledge-intensive business, consultation model, partnership or the so-called third road. In this model, the authorities closely cooperate with industry on a policy that promotes value creation and stimulates interaction between enterprises, education and research. Examples on land that have now really gained momentum on their knowledge businesses by such a strategy are Finland and Ireland. The public instruments to promote research and development in enterprises have been built up by the Bondevik Government. Instead of focusing on the growth potential of education, research and enterprise, the government’s view of disadvantaged enterprises is more focused — the less they are, the better. In our opinion, the state is making better efforts by ensuring highly qualified personnel through the reform of continuing education and training, and through the transition opportunities for universities and colleges, as well as ensuring excellent Norwegian research environments that can cooperate with industry. We all know that information technology is not a technology that comes in addition to existing technologies, but changes the technologies to which it relates. It sounds like some posts here, that in the case of IT, you can sit anywhere just with a PC and that's what Fornebu is all about. But all that we're facing will lead to the information industry not only becoming the fastest growing in itself, but it will determine far on the path of growth for many other industries. We must then be an active participant in the development and use of IT. Norway is in a straitjacket due to labour shortages. Education capacity is still too small, although the majority of the Education Committee forced the Government last year to come back with a completely different effort on IT than it had set itself up. In addition, the Workers' Party and the Right adopted a multimedia education at secondary school level. At the same time, the Right Party and the Workers' Party also decided to build a new building for the Institute of Computer Science at the University of Oslo, which the Government had not set up. Labour shortages easily lead to increased pressure on wages and salaries, students take shorter training courses because the IT industry lures, the public sector is unable to cope with competition, and last but not least: enterprises with resources are flagging out, among others. Telenor has flagged out parts of its research activities to just Ireland. The biggest danger for Norway is not in Oslo, as the Government seems to think, but in the rest of the world. If we don't train enough people, which is an important task for the authorities, the edges will be hit hardest. The big companies are always going to find and afford to hire them – they don't want the school office in Røst. So, the most important job we have to do is to increase education capacity. Another important task is to use high-tech enterprises systematically together with educational institutions in an interaction that will constitute an even better competence and increase our ability to attract us to international environments. This is what Stortinget thinks. at Fornebu. In enterprises, students can take part of their main subject, receive guidance from enterprises with up-to-date equipment and continuing training based on forward-looking enterprises. In order to master this, it is necessary to have a short distance between educational institutions and high-tech enterprises. Such connections, or clusters, we see ourselves developing internationally, but also with us, at Kjeller, at Andøya and IT Sørlanden, who have just shown that such clusters are growing new environments and new creativity. When a large majority have opted for an IT and knowledge centre, it is based on a sincere desire to exploit all the good forces to further develop our common competence of the highest class. I would also like to stress, as is stated in several settings, that it is the educational institutions themselves that are responsible for the professional content, for certification, for choosing their own forms of cooperation, and they are to conclude any agreements. I have previously asked the Minister of Education in this Chamber to listen to the plans of individual educational institutions and to wish in this context. When, among others: Vice-Chancellor Spøtvoll of the NTNU has now shown that there is uncertainty about educational institutions, and it is precisely the government parties that have contributed to creating that uncertainty. For it has never been written in the settings or here in this will have been said anything other than that the premises are made by the educational institutions themselves. They represent the content, they stand for certification. That is why we have never said anything about a particular type of foundation. It shall decide for itself by the educational institutions. So there's no reason for educational institutions to be more anxious now, because it has actually been said nothing but what has been said repeatedly in the settings. If, in our industrial policy, we do not go heavily on the part of society in terms of education and research, and at the same time interacting with innovation, there is likely to be a lack of competence and a lack of ability to use skills, then the biggest obstacle to developing future businesses in Norway. But if we are to succeed, we now need to have both local, national and global consciousness. Globalisation is driving up completely different ways of thinking and acting. The solution is not to close your eyes for this. And how the Minister of Industry follows up and handles the majority in this Chamber will be followed very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1073	I think it was deserving of Grete Knudsen to stress that there are a number of IT developments in Norway today. I think that might be a very useful reminder for all of us, because when the debate gets hotter, you get the impression that there is a problem here that can only be solved in one very special way. And that's what we've been trying to get through in this debate, that no one disagrees that it's important for us to bet on the IT industry in the future. No one disagrees that it is important to spend a lot of resources on it. But what we're in disagreement about is just how this is going to be done. Otherwise there are many paradoxes that emerge in the debate, which probably come from the fact that one word takes the other. I must say that I was very surprised when I heard Carl I. Hagen's philosophy associated with hearings. He is quite right that a hearing is important to inform each decision maker as much as possible in order to grasp his position, and I agree with him that it is not certain that an open hearing would make Carl I. Hagen change his mind. But what is perhaps one of the most important aspects of the hearings is the transparency it should be in the decisions. In an open, democratic society, citizens must feel confident that decision-makers have a set of premises to hold. It's when you say – as Carl I. Hagen does – that I've made up my mind, and that's why there's no need for a hearing, I'm starting to get thought about, because then you lose the essential points of the hearing, namely transparency and transparency in the decision-making process. I will honestly admit that we didn't think that there would be a need for open consultation, because we thought that the committee's proceedings would clarify the most important issues. But the reality is that it has not. And then you face that choice either to leave questions open or to say that now we have to make sure to get these questions settled. I actually think that most people will feel the most secure by the decision-makers trying to clarify questions as far as possible, and make it so open that people get the most insight into what's going on. It is not for nothing that many uncertainties remain despite the fact that the matter has been dealt with four times. What I cannot understand, and which the majority have not made a single attempt to justify, is why a postponement in a few weeks should be so problematic. That's why one of the questions becomes the majority: why this huge hurry? What is the reason why you can't take these extra weeks and get these questions properly explained? Right-wing wants a setup that links industry and research. There is no disagreement whatsoever between us and the majority. But what we want is a set-up that's clear. We're betting on an activity from the educational institutions out there, as described in the position, and we're adding up to the same amount of activity as the majority of people add up to. But what we do is we use a model that gives clarity in who does what. It is clear that there is an objection, a ‘thinker’, when questions are raised from the industry about this idea at Fornebu due to the time before the Internet. It's possible. But just by using our scheme of selling out the properties you get tested in the market if this idea is at the level of what the industry itself feels is right, or if it isn't. And just that the market here gets tested the ideas, yeah, I think that's an important principle approach. I am amazed that Carl I. Hagen did not use the opportunity to clarify how he had intended this large company to be set up, and how it should work more closely. He has had many opportunities in this debate to do so, and I hope he can make another contribution and now begin to give us insight into what these things are. And precisely because he was so unfortunate to go a little bit surr in the relationship between the state and the municipality properties, how much money is out and going, shows that this has simply not been clearly thought through. It is also clear that there is considerable disagreement between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party as regards relations with the freedom of educational institutions. And yet no one has really explained why it is necessary for the majority of these plots to be used for residential and other leisure purposes. It would be interesting to hear the philosophy of the majority over it. In short, there is quite a lot that is unanswered, and most people should have the opportunity to gain insight, but as the Progress Party and the Workers' Party do not dare to give people insight.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1092	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1095	I have to admit that I am getting more and more astounded at the Right in this important matter. The only thing that's concrete about what the Right wants is that they want to sell their property out there to the highest bidder. Then those who buy this will be quite free to establish what they want out there, if you want to interpret what Right has done in the setting itself. But once again, here we have someone who really wants to invest money in getting an IT competence center of international format. So it doesn't have enough visions to capture, except to sell the plots to the highest bidder. So the Right wants to know who's going to do what. Yes, if the government had followed up from June 1998 until today, we could of course have a completely different debate today, more concretely about what was going to be out there. But the government hasn't followed up, it'll come back and ask for a rematch, and that rematch won't take part in the Right. So open your ears. It is strange that that proposal should come the day before we give it, and the decision will be taken on the day we give it in accordance with the rules. There must be something fundamentally wrong within the Right when they have not discovered that they felt the need for a more open discussion in the Committee. Everything that is of interest in this matter has come out. If there's someone who doesn't feel like it, they haven't followed in the hour.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1106	If this is the case that everything of interest has emerged, I hope Kjell Opseth can sign up afterwards to answer my questions about how this formation of a company is supposed to be, just as a beginning of the whole thing. But he himself used the reason that it was the government's fault that you hadn't been able to get so far into that matter. Obviously, this is out of the question. He has also not addressed the issue of why it would have been so wrong to use a couple of weeks for e.g. to clarify the newly documented differences in attitudes of educational institutions. It is possible that it would have been three weeks lost, but would it have been so wrong? Why is it so wrong? It hasn't Opseth been able to say. Otherwise, he has not got what Right has meant here, when he claims that our only arrangement is to sell out property. First of all, I would like to remind you that we're about the same amount on the square meters for nutrient areas, and we're saying "sold with IT feeds". So at that point there shouldn't be so much disagreement. But then there is also a lot in this position about how to bring educational institutions and research into this. It must have obviously gone Opseth's house by, if he thinks that the only thing we're going to do is sell nourishment. Therefore, Opseth has not read our case. In addition, he also has to tell me – when talking about 500 goals out there – why more than half should not be used for education or nutrition, but for housing and leisure purposes and all this. That's what's going on. And since everything is so clear, I think Opseth should subscribe to a treminute and try to give us some of his visions and about the state and the investors as owners of 2,100 dwellings, preferably for rental purposes – as everything is so clear.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1115	First, the question of open hearings. Is it now possible to understand that, as far as the Progress Party has raised a few occasions, the right line is that the normal procedure in the Storting should be changed so that, when there are consultations in the Committees, these should be conducted as open consultations? I have personally argued for a long time that once the committees have hearings – and there are many committees that have a lot of hearings – the starting point should be that they are public. We expressed that when this regulation was announced. Is it now also to understand the Right’s position that, if we propose to amend the Rules of Procedure, so that there is a provision that, when the Committees hold hearings with outsiders, they are to be conducted as open hearings? This would be very positive, and it could be interpreted as if Jan Petersen actually meant it. The second thing I want to ask is: Is it the Right that needs more information in order to be able to reconsider its position, as Mr. Gabrielsen has performed with relatively high weight and heaviness? Or is it because Mr. Petersen, like Mr. Petersen. Stoning, will use – or rather abuse – the open-hearing system to influence other batches? It has also been claimed by others, including the United States and Japan. Kjell Opseth – and I fully agree – that this case has been dealt with many times in Stortinget. Had we had a government that had loyally followed up the decision of the Storting, it would not have been here today, for the main principles have been drawn earlier. And I must be allowed to ask: is not the proposal for a decision in six points relatively clear? It's the same thing that the Right voted to implement the Gardermoen construction. Can't it be that the Right now too is in favour of big business? Is it so to understand that the Right believes that it is the Labour Party and the Advance Party that conduct these negotiations and take these decisions? In this way I must say that as I follow the debate, it is not a completely foreign idea.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1122	If I didn't look completely wrong, Hagen came into the hall while I kept my post. In any case, his question suggests that he did not get with him the beginning of it. I think that's a correct description. In case he has been present, he has not got what is my point. My point is that we had hoped and believed that the normal committee treatment itself here would clarify many of the questions we have raised today, and that the majority would have described their solution to these problems in the vote. Then it turned out that this was not the case, and then we were in the election to leave the problems unanswered, for example. the questions related to: Why the housing component? How to deal with the formation of companies? What is required of those who are interested? Here, there's a difference in the amount of $1.5 billion, e.g., relating to the property of the Municipality of Oslo. That is the kind of question that should be answered. Our point is that when these questions have not been answered in the setting, they should be properly illuminated. Today’s Stortningsbeginner has shown that the debate does not allow these questions to be properly addressed. When we wanted to get it illuminated, it was because we all as decision-makers must always be willing to relate to new information. Of course we would have been, and I assume that also Carl I. Hagen would have been. But that's the important aspect of open hearings that Carl I. Hagen forgot in his post instead, that they're going to give people insight into decision-makers' reasoning, which is why people should be able to read us in the cards. What's the problem with Carl I. Hagen's perception is that he has now become so excited about the closed rooms, that people will no longer be able to read him in the cards and know what his arguments are. So now we've asked him questions several times today, but he hasn't been able to answer. He has not been able to answer!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1133	The representative Petersen will think about what this will cost the state, and the value of the state's property at Fornebu. Similarly, Oslo becomes the municipality of its own property. It is difficult to start with any discussion of what this is worth before there is a final market tariff in the area. What is bad as a clear principle is that the State should be valued at the EEA rate of ownership, and consequently the State should not give anything away into such a company. Furthermore, it has been established as a principle that there should be a joint ownership company between the State and private operators, and that the Municipality of Oslo and the Municipality of Bærum can also be invited into the ownership company. Then the next principle is that the Government should select as partners the one who has submitted the best plan, which shows that it is possible to develop the IT knowledge centre that Stortinget has said. After one has done so, one shall, in consultation with the actor, arrive at the land area needed to meet the requirements that we have now encountered several times in the course of the day. Then one first sees if there is a need for Oslo municipality to enter its land area into this. And then Stortinget asks the state to negotiate a solution with the Municipality of Oslo if it needs to. It has been said in the setting that it can happen through a make change, through a long-term party agreement or a transfer, and then it's not right here to start calculating Oslo Municipality's values as a government expenditure in that company. There is no basis for this committee setting. That's how many things it has to be negotiated about, and we've added a detailed loop that is now the reason. Then the state has to negotiate the details here with the other parties to this. I have to ask Petersen if this has not been properly clarified in the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1147	The answer to that is clearly no, and I'm even surprised that Rudihagen is now asking questions about it. When these questions have become a debate today, it is precisely because this has not been clarified enough. One of the reasons was that we got new information yesterday in the TV debate, and they are now being passed on. It is now unclear how Oslo Municipality's land should be handled, whether it should be included or not in what we expect from the stakeholders, whether we are talking about just the state's money, or whether we are talking about taxpayers' money in total. So I have to say that I think that a public hearing that had gone deep into what kind of corporate structures you're thinking about would be useful for the big debate, so we didn't have time to figure out what the majority really intends to add up to. – Now I see representatives of the majority reading and reading and reading over there, and I understand that, but it’s not a good way to have a big debate, where one should really discuss the premises. We've spent too much of this debate time trying to clarify the fact, too little to discuss the political substance. These are the things that should be clarified through open hearings. When this is important, it's because here you might have a public participation in one of the really big state companies, which are set up virtually without a single assessment in this document. So you have to interpret what the majority has put in here, and this is simply too weak to have a proper and open assessment, and not least an explanation of what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1161	President! Can I clarify a manifest misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1168	The President has already said at the outset today that she would exercise a very strict control over what is to be created by misunderstandings, so she assumes that this is a very obvious misunderstanding. But she will recommend to Hagen that perhaps rather take it in a three-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1171	President! I would like to take it right away, while it's useful to clarify it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1178	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1181	There must be an obvious misunderstanding in addition to an insinuation when the representative Petersen from the pulpit describes the reason why I am looking at a document. The misunderstanding is that I looked at the document to see if he had any evidence whatsoever for his claims about the Advance Party and the Workers' Party, and I wanted to assure myself – as I thought – that he did not. Nothing has been said at all in the form of a note from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party regarding this with housing. There's an obvious misunderstanding like Mr. Petersen has now spread across the quite country, and he also allows himself to comment on what it looks like here in the hall. It's a whole new custom that you can't get ready in the hall without being commented on for what you see from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1186	It was quite right both an insinuation and – possibly – a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1189	This is getting more and more interesting, because I was in a TV debate yesterday, where one of Carl I. Hagen's arguments when someone asked a question about the actual situation, was to pull up a ringbarrow of 500 pages from one of the stakeholders and say, "Here's the reason! So there's a lot of them. about these dwellings, but suddenly it has not become part of the case anyway because it is not in the cancellation. Yes, if someone has now provided a solid argument for open consultation, it's Carl I. Hagen. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1194	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1197	The government has as one of its main objectives the development of an innovative Norway. We know that much of this innovation takes place in creative interactions between education, research and industry. I think Norway has a great potential for innovation in such environments. The government is to establish an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. But it's too clever to focus on this center alone. The challenge is not just to develop an IT fornebu, but an IT Norway, where we can use information and communication technologies for development that benefit the whole country, and where this is a competitive advantage for Norway in a globalised economy. Therefore, the Government first presented its views on the Fornebu issue in a big message entitled ‘IT competence in a regional perspective’. The main point of the government was then, and is now, that the centre established at Fornebu must be such that it can function positively in relation to other environments of competence, and that there must be a clear division of roles between state and private. The State shall provide its universities and contribute to institutional functions. Privates who want to run the IT industry should purchase at market prices. I just have to say that the Government's strategy for setting up the Fornebu Centre has not been supported by a majority in the Stortinget. The Labour Party and the Advance Party have chosen another solution – a solution that I disagree with. However, although it may seem that there is the wish of one interested party who has received support from the majority of the committee, a process has been set up in which several stakeholders can submit their plans by 1 June. Then it's the government that's going to choose the best plan. Of course, I will follow up the decisions of the Stortinge today, and I will do my utmost to facilitate that more people can participate in the competition for the best plan, even if the time is short. In my view, we are obliged to take into account the fact that several stakeholders have waited to present their final plans until they have seen what framework the authorities set. But it is also my duty to point out that in such processes involving large government values, we have clear obligations regarding the procedure. This concerns, inter alia, which the number of committees also specifies in the proposal for a Decision, EEA legislation. I want to spend some time pointing to four principles that should be important when establishing environments of competence, no matter what model is used. Firstly, capital is important for innovation, but the environments of competence also need to attract people with ideas. Even the international capitalist IT giants are created by the idea that the ideas came first, so capital. The precursors of some of the largest data successes have been developed in garages and in borrowed time on university computers. The program that got the Internet to explode, Netscape, was first developed by a group of students. My point is that we have to be careful to design the environments of competence so that they not only attract people who are rich in money, but also those who are rich in ideas. Much of the key to Norwegian innovation lies with the young people of the so-called pizza and cola generation. It is not certain that they are attracted by an environment with fancy offices and homes of nearly 2 million. more than 1 million. kr. Secondly, although it is possible and important that a centre in Fornebu can also strengthen regional environments, we must not fall into the trap of believing that regional development is being created in Fornebu. Access to competence and capital is primarily essential in each location. I'm a little stunned when the majority of the vote says, ‘By such a modest effort as the notification takes into account, the knowledge centre will hardly make a good contribution to the regions...’;» I have to remind you that in terms of the total area of education, research and industry, there is no big difference between the government's arrangement and the IT Fornebu-alternative committee number refers to. It's 200 to 260 pieces. The big difference is that in the latter option there are also 255 covers for housing, sport and culture at Fornebu. The last one doesn't help the regions. The third principle is a principle of equal treatment. Innovation requires competition. However, competition must also take place on a level playing field. I would like to warn against a situation where universities, which lack money, have to compete against something that might remind you of a private fifth university favoured by state resources. And the fourth principle is that creative interaction must develop between independent actors, and not by one actor having control over another. I am pleased that, through comments, and through today's debate, the committee majority also specifies that the educational component at Fornebu should be organised and managed in cooperation between the existing public education institutions, and of course we should provide for that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1231	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1234	I must honestly acknowledge that I do not feel safe. Although the State Council Sponheim said that he would follow up his decision, his entire contribution was a line of reasoning that this is a wrong way to go. So once again, State Council Sponheim said – in a rather vague way – that it was ‘a private fifth university’ that we were about to go up to at Fornebu. I thought that State Council Sponheim should now put up the rhetoric and actually say what the majority in the Stortinget wants, and not continue to contribute to a disquiet that he and others from the government offices and the representatives of the government parties in the last three-four weeks have been on over the whole country. It was actually when the Labour Party's vision became known in the media as it was agreed at the group meeting, that there was peace, whether it's SINTEF or NTNU and other universities we're talking about. Now let's get a little bit into the idea that it's important to get on with it. I would like to repeat the question from my post, which I did not get in response to in the post of the Council of State: Will the Council of State follow up its decision, especially when it concerns the deadlines and guidelines for the choice of a private actor?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1241	First, I said in my post that I would warn against anything that could go in the direction of a fifth, private university. We know that one of the two participants in the majority established in this case has expressed such views in the press. I am pleased that it is so clearly stressed by the Labour Party that it is not a wish. I know, however, that Councillor Lilletun in his statement will come into some of the proportions that it actually represents on the knowledge part, what one interested person at Fornebu suggests, and that it has quite large dimensions over it. But just to follow up on this, and to make sure that this does not happen – something I now feel sure that I have the Workers' Party representatives in this room with me on – we will draw important people from the university environments into the specifications of this IT and knowledge centre, and where the details will be taken into account for the selection that the Government is going to drop. The government will rapidly set up a reference group of representatives from both universities, research environments and the business community, who can participate in and develop the necessary requirements when the difficult job is to be done to pick out the stakeholder to participate in a common company. I have already asked Principal Emil Spjøtvoll at NTNU to lead such a reference group, and he has agreed to it. This should ensure that we actually get a reasonable framework for this, as the representatives of the Labour Party have now so clearly stated – and I am pleased with it. I will also underline what I said in my post. It is my and the Government's clear task to follow up the decision that is being made today, and we will. And I think it's possible to follow the deadlines. But I would also like to stress that we want to focus on what has been said about following the EEA rules. We'll do that. It would probably mean that one has to have a continuous dialogue and procedures in relation to the rules of the EEA Agreement after 1 June – and a sample – but it does not provide the basis for this decision to problematize.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1248	from the hall): President! Can I correct an obvious misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1255	No, but Grete Knudsen can get a line afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1258	The Minister of Economic Affairs came as close to a cabinet question as it is possible at all without asking it. He said he was 'disagreed in' the position of the majority. His posts were pierced by resistance, and he came at the end of his reply now with limitations in terms of the actual desire and willingness to implement the decision. In the world's history today, a sort of secret plan is presented. It says: ‘The government will disregard today’s roll-out decision on the IT centre at Fornebu.’ In addition, it says: ‘According to very central sources, Bondevik and his state councils are prepared, if necessary, to put the Government’s life in the pot.’ And a little later: ‘However, in the secret strategy, the Government proposes to train the further process with all available and legitimate means associated with sitting in the ministry offices. The aim is to postpone the final decision to a long time in the autumn – perhaps even longer.’ I would like to ask the Minister of Industry now to clarify how he views the decision that is likely to be taken – if the majority's decision in the vote is adopted. Is it so to understand that the Council of State cannot guarantee that this will be implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Decision? There is a deadline for appointing a company to implement a number of things, set at 1 June. Does the Council of State have any plans to train the matter so that it is not implemented, or can he reassure the majority to say that what stands in the passage of the world today is meaningless, and that it has no truth? When it comes to this, and the Council of State has said that he disagrees, it is the parliamentary rules and the position of the Council of State that are actually on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1280	Let it be quite clear: the government has no hidden agenda or any'secret strategy' beyond what is now being explained from this pulpit in this debate. Those speculations are entirely due to VG. As I said in my post, the government intends to follow up this decision. And let me stress that it is possible, as the decision states, to comply with this until 1 June. It is possible, in my opinion, to create a common company that involves the State and private in a way that is EEA-legal, but it will force us to have a continuous dialogue – according to the procedures that we are required by the Storting to follow – with the EEA system on how to do this. It is not enough to clarify how to invest and construct a common company, it must also be made clear that the ongoing operation and further development of this company does not allow for any possibility of State aid. It is the necessary and required dialogue with the EEA system that I must have. There's complicated relationships associated with this. I can't fully explain what procedures will be followed in the next few days and the weeks ahead, but we will of course throw ourselves around and comply with the big decision that is being taken today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1285	I am pleased that the Council of State makes it clear that he will follow the decision of the Storting here today. Then of course we also expect that the speech will be something different than it has been up to today, even in the case of the decision that will actually be taken. In his speech, the Council of State said that he was pleased that the Workers' Party has now clarified that the public educational institutions themselves are to determine the professional content and certification. The Workers' Party has always meant that. There has been no other attitude and perception in the Workers' Party at this point. All of the IT development settings, the IT message and the IT Fornebu settings have been mentioned. I would like to ask: Where in the world does the Council of State have it from the fact that the Workers' Party wanted private management and responsibility for education policy in our country?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1292	The uncertainty that may have been created about what one would have to do with a knowledge centre, and the development of it towards what someone has called a fifth university, has been created by the Workers' Party's alliance partner in this matter, the Progress Party, in the last days' debate. It has therefore been clear that the Workers' Party has so clearly stressed in this debate that they do not share such an opinion. As a result, there will be a majority to ensure that what is to become the knowledge part of such an IT centre, where industry will play a leading role, is dimensioned and adapted to the interests and wishes of the established state institutions. That is why I have also signaled today that we will follow this up on the basis of the views expressed in this position, in order to develop the detailed specifications that we want for the stakeholders who will participate in a joint company with the State. That is enough of the way in which we are now going to sit down and work out solutions for how to set up such a joint company, which is to be legal in the EEA, and which is to be made visible both at the time of the start and at a later stage of operation, that there is no possibility of providing State aid or other means of contributing to the State's money to subsidise private activities. Then there'll probably be a lot of money for private people to be able to take control of such a company. If the example set by the majority on IT fornebu is based on the values entered, here we are talking about a sum of 1 to 1.5 billion kroner, we estimate – that will clarify the market price – on the part of the state in addition to the areas that will then have to be acquired from the state to be added, both from the Municipality of Oslo, to buy out SAS, etc. We are talking here about a significant state amount that needs to be matched by private ones in order to achieve a balance of ownership, and thus could give private control over this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1299	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1302	Today, the size deals with a matter of major importance for growth and value creation throughout the country, as well as the disposal of a larger area in the Oslo area. Of course, I have followed the case with particular reference to the importance it can have for the development of my own state and the heavy technological-scientific environments that are currently located in Trondheim. According to the Address View, it is stated by NTNU that the IT centre at Fornebu will also give them an extra boost and that it will be interesting for them to have contact with companies that work in the front line of computer technology. The possibility for students from Trondheim to complete their studies with a major or doctoral degree at IT Fornebu will strengthen Trondheim's position as a national centre of gravity. I have noticed that the CEO of Sintef, Roar Arntzen, hopes it will be a heavy IT stake. Sintef and NTNU will strive to have a strong position in research and education at IT Fornebu and thus strengthen their competitiveness. They see the possibilities, they understand the strong growth we will have in this area, and they have understood for the longest time that industry and competition are international, and that the danger is not in Oslo. Then I would like to comment on the ghost of the fifth and private university, which supposedly has to draw teacher powers from the regions. My question today is: Who is supporting this? At least the working party does not. And then it must be the government parties. We have clarified, in fact repeatedly, that the education part of the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu is to be managed and organised through cooperation between existing public educational institutions. Public governance is important, because there must be a level playing field in the competition for teacher powers, for example. pay conditions. And not least, there must be equal access to study for the whole population. IT Fornebu needs to be ensured at a high quality level, and public governance needs to ensure that it becomes available to most people. This is a education policy there is a broad consensus about in Norway, although I have noticed that the Right in Innst. S. No 232 for 1998-99, which had to be opened up to private educational institutions. But I see it as a matter of course that the government parties stand at their former position that the public should play a leading role, in interaction with the IT Fornebu companies in developing the education part. I've missed the Minister of Education very much. And I would like to ask the Council of State: can the Minister of Education guarantee that the existing public education institutions will actively contribute to governance and cooperation with IT Fornebu? Does the Government fully agree that it is an absolute requirement that private operators have included in their plan concrete proposals for regional action? And finally, will the Minister of Industry call SINTEF quickly, so that their knowledge and competence can be applied to the further development of IT Fornebu?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1320	Let me first of all say that after IT Fornebu launched its plans for an IT centre at Fornebu in 1996, there has been a formidable development in education in information and communication technology. The government has taken the challenge seriously, and education capacity has increased sharply at all universities and universities, from the Finnish Higher Education College in the north to the Higher Education College in the south. And the right educational institutions are now working to integrate information technologies into other disciplines and programmes. I have to be allowed to pay tribute to the work done by the universities and the universities here. And here I would like to be allowed to comment, sir. Hagen's posts. It was said that the University of Oslo did not have such an offer. I can then tell you – I don't have time for everything now – that there are 15 IT-based subjects, for example German, jus, physiology, etc. Furthermore, something called the NITOL collaboration, from which I can deliver a catalogue to Hagen, which is a collaboration between the University of Bergen, NTNU, the University of Agder, the University of Southern Trøndelag and the University of Stord/Haugesund. So it's not like our own educational institutions are emerging in this field. In Fornebu-saka, I and the Ministry of Education, Education and Research have had a close and good dialogue with others. NTNU, University of Oslo and Sintef. And the government's ratings in St. Announcement. No 13 for 1998–99 is consistent with the thinking of these institutions. This does not mean that the Government has closed the door to other public educational institutions that see the use of an IT centre at Fornebu. In a letter dated 16 February, President Emil Spjøtvoll and Sintef Director Roar Arntzen have clarified their main views in relation to a future educational activity at Fornebu. Here they stress that this activity should be an independent activity of the established educational institutions, and that it would be directly wrong to lay a framework on this activity which limits its action, its professional integrity and autonomy. I'm going to write this down. This should also be a matter of self-evidentity, as the Stortinget has previously established this in the university and university spheres. The majority type in the setting that «a formal framework should be established for the educational activities and industrial development established in the Terminal Building». And in paragraph 6 of the proposal for a decision: «An agreement is reached with the company on the State's other involvement in the knowledge centre, including: in the case of research, education, industrial development and cooperation with the regions.’;» I choose to interpret this as an agreement relating to education and research by public education institutions to preserve the autonomy that these institutions have under the law and that the institutions have an independent responsibility to conclude the cooperation agreements they find necessary. This is now a long experience for the institutions. In addition, the multi-digit number goes in so that the terminal building, where one sees itself doing so, goes in too. the training activity should be localised, should be incorporated into the joint owner company which the Workers' Party and the Progress Party primarily want. In the big news, the government went in so that these educational facilities, as the only local ones, would be owned by the state. In the news, it's called, among other things,\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Under the assumption that approximately 8000 m2 will be used for educational and research purposes, the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research has provisionally assessed the cost of approximately DKK 120 million. It is foreseen that the expenditure on education and research activities in Fornebu will be financed in such a way that this does not go beyond existing and planned activities at universities and higher education institutions.» This was precisely to ensure freedom of action and autonomy for educational institutions and to ensure activity throughout the country. I have noticed that this has not been commented on by the majority of the business committee. In the proposal for a decision, the majority of the majority in Stortinget are in favour of starting operations in Terminalbygget from the autumn of 1999. There's another 6-7 months, and so only three months after the deadline the Storting suggests for the development company to be selected. I hope the Storting here has some ice in its stomach. The University of Oslo, NTNU and Sintef are already in the process of moving to Fornebu on a planned basis. But there is a great deal of work to do in preparing local and finding the technological solutions that make it possible to operate on Fornebu. Furthermore, the size has underlined that an important point in setting up an IT centre at Fornebu is to be the interaction between education, research and business. So today, there's not a single IT company at Fornebu. So finally, a little bit about the regional perspective of setting up an IT centre on Fornebu, which I think has come a little bit into the background of the debate in the later days. So the size has not chosen who should be involved and develop an IT center at Fornebu, but in the setting it is called... President, I see the time is up. I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1355	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1358	I want to discuss two matters with the Council of State. One is that, in his statement, in the same way as the Sponheim Council, he continues to spread an uncertainty, that there are some who want private actors to control the educational institutions. Then I would say again that he must use Innst. S. No 232 for 1997-98, which concerned the entire IT and Competence Centre at Fornebu, where a large majority voted in favour of that government. I ask that the Council of State here confirm that he is aware of it, and that there is nothing new that has been clarified by the Workers' Party through this debate. The second thing I want to address is that in the context of the budget we have for the current year, the Right Party and the Labour Party need to take the initiative to build a new building for the Institute of Computer Science at the University of Oslo. This was to ensure that computer science became an integral part of the entire work at the University of Oslo. And the reason we had to do this was that the State Council had taken the initiative to move the Institute of Informatics to Fornebu. My question is, what was the background for Lilletun to move the Institute of Informatics to Fornebu? And was this the whole government's view?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1369	First, there wasn't one thing in my post that said something about what Knudsen said now, that there was an alternative university to come. I gave a clarification of how I saw the majority of the committee, of course I do. So let's see about the computer science building. It's wrong what the representative Knudsen says, that I had taken an initiative to move the Institute of Computer Science at the University of Oslo. But in the discussion on how to resolve the local situation, it was put on the table as one of the alternatives that could be appreciated by the University of Oslo, because the Stortinget had said that the terminal building at Fornebu would go for educational purposes. And when one then lacks it built, it could be one thing that one evaluated. It said no to the University, and then, of course, it was respected by the Council of State. In fact, the Government's message outlined how the state could control the educational bit itself by owning the Terminal Building. No comment on how this should happen. Here it's going to go into the same company, so it's going to be governed the same way as the rest of the area. What I mean is a weakening in relation to this setting, but I have given my interpretation, and I expect that it is possible to take the matter further. When it comes to how I want to follow up on what is a comment from the Committee – and which the entire Committee was behind, not just the Labour Party, the Right and the Government Party – to find a solution for the Institute of Informatics at the University, I will of course continue to work on it. But it's not a decision that it's been following. That is why I have to find a scheme in relation to what I want to get back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1380	Education and research policies are central to this debate. How we do best must be a central question when we are to dispose of as much resources both of state resources and – as has been established here – also of private resources for research and education. Then there's a question of using resources in the right way. I would like to ask the Council of State whether some analyses have been carried out by the Department or whether some sort of methodological approach has been used to determine which areas should have been strengthened in this area and which institutions it should have been. Is there a comparative basis based on such research or analysis that we have a real basis for comparing an IT Fornebu project with an alternative investment in other educational institutions, and according to structures other than those on which very strong leadership is now being put? I could imagine asking the Council of State if he believes it is possible to guarantee that such a commitment that is now taking place at Fornebu will not go beyond the educational institutions across the country. I think that's very central, sail if someone will certainly argue that there should be some kind of interaction here – that is, when you sow somewhere, it's going to shake back again, as it's called in economic theory. Sick if many of us are very sceptical about the truth in these theories about the sprinkling effect, it could at least be interesting to hear the Council of State's assessment of it, and if it hadn't initially perhaps been better education policy and easier to manage a project that had been targeted at public schools, universities, colleges and research institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1387	First of all, if it's been an alternative arrangement: it doesn't. Compared with the way in which the majority now manages to enter with capital – something between 1.5 and 2.5 billion kroner, slightly unclear how large – it is clear that the government had proposed to go into the education part. So this one goes into it with this much larger part. I'm overestimated that here it would be wise, if one were to first invest these money in competence development, to invest them in another way. So a little bit about the district policy in this. In the 515 dean that the majority point out that IT Fornebu wants for its territory, they have said that they should have 90,000 m2 for educational purposes. It may be difficult to imagine how much 90,000 m2 is, but this corresponds almost ten times to the area that the Institute of Computer Science at the University of Oslo has today. Or in another way: it corresponds to the entire building mass of the Hochskulen in Stavanger – an institution with 6,000 students. So there's a need for 6,000 students to defend a 90 000 m2 need for education. If one sums up the students studying information technology across the country at different levels — from shorter candidate courses to main courses — it makes up about 10,000 students. These figures should make us all, and not least the majority of the population, think thoroughly about what can happen in relation to centralisation and regional policy implications, in the light of the decision that is now being taken. But I'm optimistic by nature. I think we can fix this in a way that gives us a sprinkling. But it requires that one has a planned expansion, that one makes for an interaction, and that one set of clues that means that we don't lose the brain capital from the institutions into the whole country into Fornebu. There's a risk, but it's possible to steer by, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1396	In the exchange of lines between the representative Grete Knudsen and the Council of State, the representative Knudsen showed the most puzzling interlude in the history of IT Fornebu, the plan that was in for a moment, to move the entire Institute of Informatics from Gaustadbeckdalen to Fornebu. I think the idea of it really wasn't from the Council of State, but from just the visionary environments that have basically produced just that: visions. It was relatively quickly made clear that, professionally, there was not the slightest basis for such a thought. Moving Norway’s strongest computer science community into Norway’s largest research environment from there to fornebu would have been quite pointless. What I am interested in hearing the views of the Council of State is – in so far as both his own argument and the argument of the Minister of Industry have fully and completely contradicted what is likely to be adopted by the majority of the Great Government today – whether the Government has considered the possibility of doing what governments normally do, namely to put its weight in the scale to prevent a decision that the Government considers to be an unfortunate decision. There would have been an interesting political situation in that case, so far as I would assume that in such a situation, at least one of the two parties that constitute the majority constellation, namely the Labour Party and the Advance Party, would have had to ask themselves whether they might have been in bad company. I'm going to think that at least one of the two parties has to be in bad company, maybe both. But my question to the Council of State is, Has the Government seriously considered acting as a government in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1405	Of course, we have «considered» to act as a government in this matter – because that is simply what we are doing. It is a government's first duty to carry out the Greatness's will in a conscientious manner. It goes so far that it goes all the way across the ideological foundation that the government has, it's clear that then one can't carry it out. Here's the deal between the Government and the current plurality that we want to develop an international IT center. The government is proposing to invest what is built on the Terminal, and otherwise bet on that private developer, but with some leads on an area that is about the knowledge center, and not housing construction and the like. The difference is not so great that the government thought there was a reason to put the position on it – it was not I who should have done and said here either; it is the Prime Minister who does. But at the same time, I would say it would be bad if not the Minister of Industry and the signatures said what we meant about what is wrong in the plural's argument, and what the plural has proposed as a decision here today. That's why we clearly tell you about it, but at the same time we know what a government obligation is: it's in a conscientious way to set up and implement what the Storting decides. I am so busy that this government is going to live, and I believe that both IT Fornebu and Education Norway are also more likely to do so. I dare to believe that the representative has agreed to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1414	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1417	Finally, from the Council of State, we are aware that this government has as its prime objective just to sit, so it's nothing new. After the aerodrome was closed down at Fornebu, large areas were freed, which because of their location have a high value and are therefore very interesting and attractive for several groups. It's natural that many are interested in participating in development out there. This is a health sign, it's always an advantage that there are several choices. I have recorded through the debate both earlier in Stortinget, in the media and here today that some people believe that we as the authorities should have no sense whatsoever of the direction and type of business to come. In other ways, we cannot interpret those who believe that we should just get rid of the areas at the highest price possible. Of course, such an attitude will give some money in the box immediately, but this is short-term thinking. It can be called not wanting to participate actively in perspective. The centre has always agreed to establish an IT centre, but once it has been broken, the Council of State has not been able to do that job. It's said that this will cost a few billion in size, as it's expressed from the center and the right. This is defensive. First of all, it's not right, and if we just look at the money we can get in the box in the short term, we're going to make a mistake. That money will at least disappear quickly, at least the sitting government will surely find some hopeless way to spend it. All agree that there is a need to increase IT skills in Norway. Training capacity must and will be increased. We must not find ourselves in a situation where Norway is being left out and is not involved in international development. Because of the arrangement that's on the table today, we're going to be able to get a lift. It is essential that the education system and the business community cooperate much more than they do today. It is in the interface between education and industry that the creative is best developed. This must and must happen all over the country. We cannot stand up so that our colleges and universities operate on their own, and do not have the necessary contact with business and society. The Labour Party is also quite clear, as it says in the preamble, that it is the existing educational institutions that are responsible for the training. This is not a new private university; it is a cooperation between universities, colleges and private actors to increase capacity and improve quality. The whole basis for the Workers' Party's position is built around this principle. We have very good educational institutions in IT around the country. We're going to take care of this. NTNU has a special national responsibility. They shall continue to have this – nothing shall change. What is to be done at Fornebu shall be under the control of the existing ones. This environment in Trondheim has said that they will, but what they're afraid of is that Fornebu will be a new university that can undermine the existing ones. This shall not happen. The Labour Party believes that the public and private sector can and should interact much more closely than is the case today. Instead of just being a passive spectator to economic development, we need to participate and contribute. Public money can be injected and used to provide jobs to support society after the oil age declines. If we just sell to the maximum bidder, we have absolutely no control over the development. Then those who criticise us today for a scheme that provides centralization will have to swallow the words in themselves, I am absolutely convinced of that. For what control do we want it not to be a vacuum cleaner? If the public doesn't have a hand on the wheel, then random capitalists can do whatever they want. Is this really what the center parties mean? Are they not willing to operate governance and cooperation to ensure that the whole country is put into operation? After all, they have a relatively high rhetorical level of priorities for districts, but now they do not want to go all the way, releasing market forces at 100 pst. This is accident and shows that the Government does not have the slightest will to control development. Nor is it as it is claimed that an IT centre at Fornebu will clean up the country too. Nor is there any unison resistance in the districts to a center on Fornebu. On the other hand, there is considerable cooperation with regional environments. The IT environment in Narvik is included, the last out there is an agreement between Andøya rocket launch field and IT Fornebu. This is not a housekeeper contract, this is a two-sided agreement where the Andøya environment will not only receive the most graceful competence, they will also be a supplier. This will enable both parties to benefit from cooperation. At some point, the Minister of Industry must accept that there is a majority of an IT centre on Fornebu, with State involvement. He has to stop the obstruction tests and start thinking and working constructively.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1447	The Business Committee asks the Government to negotiate with the Municipality of Oslo in order to find a solution for the parts of the property of the municipality that it wishes to add to the knowledge centre. The municipality of Oslo has so far stated that it does not want to negotiate this. The municipality has previously decided to sell its properties in open competition at the highest price. However, I have noticed that the position after the Committee's suspension has not been the same in all fractions. There have been signs in the media that some representatives of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party in Oslo now think it might be interesting to make changes to the Fornebu districts of the municipality with state properties in the city. With regard to the Committee's requests to invite the Municipality of Oslo to participate in a joint company, I would mention that the position in relation to this has also been clearly rejected in the past. In the light of recent developments, the Ministry will contact Oslo Municipality's political leadership to clarify Oslo's official position on the matter. There have been negotiations between the State and the Municipality of Oslo on other issues relating to the property at Fornebu. Before the expansion and active post-use of Fornebu can be started, a number of questions in the relationship between the State and the Municipality of Oslo need to be clarified. In a short time, land changes under the Terminal Building, the pollution situation and state properties in Oslo’s fall-back area are involved. On most of these issues, the main points of these agreements are now agreed between the dealers of the parties. However, as far as I know, the municipality does not want to formally approve any of these agreements until there is a clarification of all the open conditions. In my opinion, this prevents the progress of the case unnecessarily, and I would also like to address this with the Municipality of Oslo. As a regulatory authority, the municipality of Bærum will establish important planning conditions for the development of Fornebu. The overall attitude of the municipality so far has been that 5000 dwellings should be built. As the Committee has noted, low rates of use in the housing sector will have a negative impact on the income of the country. In a letter to the municipality of Bærum dated 14 April 1998, I have just pointed out the need for a higher level of exploitation than that provided by the municipality, both for the lack of housing in the region and for the need to establish an adequate passenger base for environmentally friendly public transport. Here, however, I must stress that there is a significant uncertainty about the values of the state's properties at Fornebu before municipal level 2. I would like to point out the significant economic risk the state is exposed to when the state chooses to deposit parts of, or all of its property and building stock on Fornebu in a joint company with private operators. Regardless of any vision underlying an IT centre, the project will obviously be at risk. Representatives of the industry themselves have made this explicitly clear. In Dagbladet on 9 January 1998 IT Fornebus representative Per Morten Vigtel states: "I'll tell you why I chose Fornebu. It is the most attractive plot in Norway. This is precisely why it is easier to attract large capital. The IT vision is a risk project. If this is not the case, those investing here may have real estate collateral that is guaranteed to increase in value.» If the company goes bankrupt, the country's properties could be lost. In this respect, I would like to remind you that the vision of an IT centre can also be realised through fastening mechanisms where the State does not take on the main risk of developing the area. Such a solution will at the same time ensure the country's share of any capitalisation of the property and thus a secure future source of income. I would again like to stress the considerable risk that the State rates valuable properties as risk capital in a project of that type of committee's majority. After the Stortinget has clarified the framework conditions for the establishment of an IT centre, it will be a central task for the Government to clarify what the Centre should contain professionally and functionally. In the light of such a defined programme for the IT centre, the project will be published publicly, as the main provision of EEA legislation also states. This approach will also provide a real chance to present their plans to other than the three known stakeholders, Road Cover, Steen & Strom ASA and IT Fornebu. In this way, the Government will try to create as open a competition as possible within the framework laid down by the Stortinge in its decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1481	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1484	First, I want to give tribute to the Council of State for a factual statement, with no rhetorical outcome to the bulk of the population. When that happened, perhaps some of the explanation is that the Council of State in its budget proposal for the current year, among other things. wrote the following: ‘The development of Fornebu with a vision of a future comprehensive investment in IT-based activities will be important for the establishment of new businesses at Fornebu. The lack and gradual development of related services, research and education are an objective of a sensible post-use of the site. The aim will be to create an IT centre of international importance in the national network.’ Outside the same comment, the Council of State writes: ‘A national IT centre at Fornebu will need to seize parts of Oslo Municipality’s relapse areas and the unexplained conditions will therefore have an impact on both the progress and possible design of the IT centre.’ So the Council of State is also concerned that the area has to be large enough, as the Storing has foreseen. The two quotations indicate that this Council of State has both a more constructive view of the IT centre itself and the dimension and is more willing to follow up on what her own party has been to in Stortinget than what her colleague in the Ministry of Economic Affairs is. In a committee comment on the budget, the two government parties Christian People's Party and the Central Party, together with the Workers' Party, are still standing. What is the option of the Council of State, if the State does not go badly in order to safeguard public interests? I also want to ask: what is the view of the Council of State on those partly very negative characteristics that some have given by one of the most offensive private stakeholders that the state might be dependent on cooperating with?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1503	It is a misunderstanding to believe that the Government does not want an IT centre at Fornebu – in contrast to what the majority in this Chamber has expressed. On the contrary, we have tried to meet the comments and decisions taken in Stortinget. But there are some open questions. We tried to get more stakeholders to go in and look at developments at Fornebu. Then the desire for space was bursting, from 90 dekars to 200-500 dekars. So what's big enough in this context, it's kind of hard to be completely clear. We'll be able to clarify this when we get a chance to go out and invite more people to see what this area of Fornebu can develop to meet Storting's decision. The Koksa area, which has now been announced for sale, has already taken up the information technology that Stortinget has put in, and will be preserved. When it comes to commenting on the characteristics of some actors in this context, I do not need to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1510	One of the big questions in this case is what the real value of the state's efforts in this project is, and how to manage it. The first one is especially important, because it could give a clue as to what an alternative use of these values might also mean. But I became particularly aware of something the Council of State said, namely, that if the project goes bankrupt, the state's assets may be lost. Does that mean that this is also a characteristic of the Government's proposal, that it is directly involved in the project, or is it a characteristic of the project that the majority is now presenting – that it is an owner constellation, an owner and operating model that exposes state property to a bankruptcy risk, which is not in the government's arrangement?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1515	It's hard to be clear what the country's values are at Fornebu. The cancellation has previously taken a decision that ordered the Government and the after-use of Fornebu to collect 2 billion kroner – 2.3 billion kroner now. But the more restrictions you apply, the less likely the value is. IT feeds are most likely to have a market-based cost. There is, of course, an effort from the state. But what's the total cost, we can't say today. As I said, of course also concerns the regulation plan for Bærum. As for the risk of losing, it's clear that if the state places all of its values into an AS, and the investors themselves say that this is a risk project, it's of course a chance, if this AS goes bankrupt, that you lose the values you have. But now the Minister of Industry has said that we should look at forms of participation in an EEA legislation, which can alternatively show how the State can participate. It is a question that we must then be able to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1522	I would also like to commend the Council of State, which, unlike the other two Councils here, sticks to what is going to happen in concrete terms, on the basis of the expected majority decision that will come later today. I fully agree with the Council of State that the reality of the Fornebu area, when the Stortinge has adopted an IT and knowledge centre, is that it means a bonding in this area, which also has something to say about the fare. The Council of State announced that there are several stakeholders who have shown interest and that they will now have the opportunity to further develop their plans by the deadline of 1 June 1999. But it's been time, so I want to ask the council when she now mentions, among other things. Road cover, as most of us usually know as a performing contractor, and not as an IT actor, and the Bohemian & Ström group, as most of us know as Steen & Ström, shopping and shopping centres, whether the two, Road Cover and Bøhler/Steen & Ström, have presented their IT and knowledge vision and plans. It's been time, so I'm going to assume, when we get to know who the other big players here are, that they also have an opinion beyond getting the property to property development – because that's where the Storting said it's not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1529	State buildings went out actively at the end of the summer last year and advertised for stakeholders who could participate in and develop IT fornebu following the decisions taken in Stortinget. It is clear that the largest stakeholder has also developed the plans for what such a knowledge centre should be. It may also have been along the way that someone has actually believed that the matter has been settled, and that perhaps you have not put enough weight into it. But there are several stakeholders who will now have an opportunity to further develop their visions for this area, and they will obviously need to develop the area within the framework set by Stortinget for this centre. Earlier today, it was suggested by the representative Hedstrøm in a line change that the Ministry of Labour and Administration had submitted a remark from a law firm at a time when you could use it – yes, I should not insinuate, but at least: it was yesterday! To this I would like to say that the report from the law firm was ordered by the department in its own case preparation. It was, however, in line with the disclosure law registered in the public postal records, and on that basis we received a request from the Evening Post dated 16 February. The usual procedure meant that it was delivered yesterday. The document has come to the public's knowledge, not from any tactics, but from the open line that we have of access to state documents.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1536	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1539	Someone has said it this way: If some debaters ask themselves, do they help with the solution, or are they part of the problem? Unfortunately, there is every reason to ask such a question in view of more speeches today and, in fact, also in view of the Minister of Industry's various opinions on this matter, both here in the Chamber and not least in the media. Another quote that I do not know the author of, fits well with the opinions of the same actors on the position of the Workers' Party, namely the following: There was an opinion about whose madness everyone can understand. I am thinking of their claims that the majority will almost give billions in the pocket of a named shipowner. The quotation describes a tactic that is used when letting up for factual arguments, but fortunately, it is rarely used from the Council of State position. In fact, it is expected that a government council will help clarify the facts, not to fool matters and debate. The negative views of the Council of State also come in a strange light because his own government partners, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, were already in the process of making the premise for the development of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu, when the matter was dealt with by the family, culture and administration committee. As late as a few months ago, the same parties still agreed with the Workers' Party. For this reason, the tough outcome of the council against the Workers' Party will also be a blow under the seat of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. It is both remarkable and disappointing that government parties have got cold feet and have not dared to run out. I find it difficult to see that the six points in the setting differ so much from the point of view that it was only for such a reverse operation. I have no other explanation than that the Minister of Industry has used the same type of argument within the Government, and startled them away from their former positive attitude, not to say enthusiasm, and over to the Right. It's almost so that you can believe that the Council of State has put the parties to an ultimatum. It has been claimed that the leaders that the majority have put in place only one interested party is currently involved. First of all, like the second memory, I want to remember that the government parties were behind the leaders. Secondly, if it turns out to be this way, the Minister of Industry has to take the lead in doing so. Had the Council of State followed up the decision of the Storting as offensive as he should, and had done his best to get as many concepts as possible, the department would certainly have had even more options today. It's been a long time since the premises were made. But the Council of State found it more appropriate to let time go and instead try to score cheap political points through some kind of argument that, in my view, is not worthy of a Council of State. When faced with proposals for conversion or new ideas, they should be assessed on the basis of two points of view. First, what can the new bring about by positive and negative relationships? Secondly, what happens if we don't go in for the new one, or don't take the proposed change? The last question is at least as important as the first. In my view, those who are most negative in this case do not ask the last question. Because it's not like we're just saying no to heavy government involvement, it's going to be trouble free. An IT and knowledge centre will come under any circumstances. For the Workers' Party, it is then absolutely essential that the State be active with and shape parts of the Centre, so that the leaders of the Stortinge can really become a reality. Otherwise, I think there will be every reason to fear both the centralization and vacuuming of both the public educational institutions and district Norway for competence. The fact that the state is active and heavy is the best guarantee that the centre really evolves as the authorities and thus the universities and universities want. The working party has not taken a position on which private stakeholders are to be set up or on which concept is to be chosen. That's not our problem. That's what the department has to do. That's always been our assumption. If IT Fornebu has a head start right now, as the Minister of Industry said, it must take its share of responsibility. However, much can be corrected within the deadline set by the majority of the population. IT Fornebu has shown what could be possible to obtain from such a centre of positive effect both for the country as a whole and for the districts. Others might do it even better. We just get to believe that any other stakeholders aren't scared of all that vulgar argumentation, not to say shikans, some political actors have been in charge of this matter until today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1556	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1559	The Left considers that the proposal to refer this matter back to the Economic and Social Committee is well-founded. In the context of such a review, open consultations should also be conducted. There are many important questions that are unsolved in this matter. Every day in the last few weeks, new issues have emerged that make the justification for such hearings more and more cumbersome. In addition, there is a need for the Business Committee to take a new round on this matter because the essential elements of the majority’s approach are unclear. Last night during the TV debate yesterday, we experienced that the Progress Party and the Workers' Party developed the model they want, as they were pressed for key issues. This should give the majority an opportunity to settle the matter so that the matter is settled more clearly when it comes to the proceedings in Stortinget. It is claimed that the requirement for open hearings should have been promoted earlier. That's possible. But there is no doubt that the issue has been most recently updated. New questions have emerged in the course of the treatment. Among other things, it is now clear that several educational institutions, including those in receipt of IT-Fornebus plans, are now highly sceptical when the project goes from the big words to the harsh realities. From different parts of the country, well-founded claims are now made that if the majority of the Business Committee wins, there will be significant negative impacts on IT environments, colleges and universities. This is all reason to take it seriously. It does so by conducting a hearing. Questions concerning the need for transport solutions are also unclear. We do not have an overview of the transport costs resulting from the majority of the business committee. Questions in the billion class should not be left unanswered. The impact that the majority assumes on the development of the municipality of Oslo should also be clarified much better than what has been done so far. There now appears to be broad support for a desire to have consultations in the wake of what is described as a scandal in relation to the exceedances at the Rikshospitalet. Hearings in the wake of a scandal may be useful. But it may also have its mission in a case that is described as a scandal even before a decision has been taken, as in this case. The consultation may provide information to improve governance and to properly elucidate its consequences. Many have turned their attention to mixing roles in this case and some have called a fix culture. Also in this perspective there should be a broad interest in getting the most clear of the very special course this case has had. This should be of interest to all – not least to those who are receiving the critical searchlight. Or is it that a person just doesn't want to get the search light directed at these relationships?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1573	Although the Storting has decided to be an IT centre on Fornebu, there were enough of us who didn't have in mind a center of such dimensions as the majority wants. I think we're wise to think about it before we make decisions that can bind up large resources from the state to such a center. It is really a paradox that we want to facilitate another IT centre in Norway. This centre will be located in one of Norway's most popular areas, in Norway's most expensive plot area. In the Oslo region, we already have three IT and competence centres. It is the Research Park in Gaustadbekkdalen, Campus Kjeller and Research Park in Ås. Campus Kjeller is a common name for the entire technology environment at Kjeller. It is the country's most innovative research environment, and it has gathered approximately. 3 000 employees, of which 1 200 researchers and 600 engineers/technicians. Why are we not developing existing environments, rather than establishing another? The majority proposal implies that, in the worst case, the State will have to spend more than DKK 2 billion on this project. These funds must be taken from other areas of the public sector. Where are we going to take them from? We all remember last year's budgeting, where we had to do painful cuts. We know that our universities and colleges are struggling with tight frameworks. If we can release DKK 2.5 billion, our society would, in my opinion, be better served to strengthen the education and research that is taking place in the field of the IT sector today at our universities, colleges and existing research parks. We need to get the existing IT environments operational before we establish new ones. This case is served by a postponement. I therefore support the proposal that it be sent back to the Committee and that there be an open consultation. There is much that is unclear here, and it should also be important for Stortinget that those who know the IT industry best warn against the IT fornebu concept.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1586	In every way, this is a special matter, which today's debate is a sign. What surprises me the most is that the Workers' Party goes into partnership with the Advance Party in this particular matter. During these days, the leader of the lot is very concerned about making the Advance Party the main enemy. It is therefore strange to witness that in an area that is so important for the Workers' Party, namely education policy, one chooses to join the main enemy, which in both media opinions and today's debate makes it clear that they want a Fornebu project that will result in a private competitor of the higher public education institutions. It's no wonder that universities and colleges have been insecure and confused. The left considers that it is in principle wrong for education, business and housing to be involved in a joint ownership of a limited liability company, as stated by the majority. This also strongly warns NTNU and the University of Oslo against this. They have stated that the government's model, where we distinguish education from business, is the best in ownership and property. The Workers' Party now specifies that the views of public education institutions should be taken into account in the knowledge centre. This is joyous. This has been the view of the Government and the Left all along. For this reason, eight educational objectives have been set at Fornebu, as higher education institutions consider sensible. It is still uncertain whether the Workers' Party supports such a scheme, or whether you add up to the 90 000 square metres of IT that Fornebu wants to make. The Council of State Lilletun has explained the enormous dimensions of this in reality. It would have been desirable to get a clear answer to the Workers' Party's view of this particular matter. For me, it is incomprehensible that the Workers' Party has so far not listened more to established educational institutions than to a private investment company. Many have probably wondered in the course whether the Workers' Party has left its stifling course in education policy – for the sake of unsolicited steps with the Progress Party as a leader.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-25.ana.ud934e1597	The time for the morning meeting is up. The President proposed that this meeting be suspended and that a new meeting be set at 1 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
