ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e77	The representatives of Dagrun Eriksen, Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, Laila Kaland, Dag Danielsen, Hallgeir H. Langeland, Jørgen Kosmo and Anne Helen Rui, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Eastfold County, Morten Olsen, has taken the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the scheduled time at noon. 15.00 until the current map has been completed – and the President may already state that it is necessary. No objections have been raised to this proposal – and it is deemed to have been adopted. State Council Sponheim has asked the Stortinget to provide some information in connection with a matter that was the subject of the Questionnaire on 27 January this year. The President will therefore give Sponheim the floor to a little additional information in relation to the answer he gave in the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e113	In the Question Time on Wednesday 27 January this year, questions were raised about Aker RGI's announced sale of his shareholding in Scancem AS. At that time, it was about the sale of the shares themselves in the Swedish company Scancem AB. I therefore informed them that the Norwegian authorities could not intervene in the acquisition of foreign companies, although this company has Norwegian subsidiaries. Therefore, Aker RGI’s sale of its shareholding in the Scancem AB group would not be subject to the acquisition law. This is still correct. However, it is now apparent that Aker RGI has chosen to organise the sale of its shareholding in Scancem AB to the German company Heidelberger Zement AG through a Norwegian holding company. Heidelberger Zement AG takes over 100 pst. of the shares in Aker RGI Project Development AS, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Aker RGI ASA, and the holding company Aker RGI’s shares in Scancem AB. Since the acquisition of the Scancem shares now takes place through the acquisition of a Norwegian holding company, the acquisition triggers the obligation to notify under the acquisition law and is subject to treatment under that law. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has received a notice of acquisition in this respect and the acquisition is now normally dealt with by the Ministry under the Acquisition Act.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e120	That information should have been given.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e132	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by 5 minutes to each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e137	When Stortinget last raised the matter of setting up an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu in connection with the treatment of Document No. 8:58 and the innermost. S. No 99 for 1998-99, Stortinget et al. to ask the government to provide a big message in the spring session, where there was a good deal about the status of the case and what the government would negotiate with. St.meld. No 42, which we have for treatment today, is a follow-up to it. As you know, it was opened for the Government to negotiate with three or more stakeholders after 1 June. When there are seven stakeholders, and when several of them, after what the Minister of Economic Affairs said, are good and serious, this testifies that there are many who have good faith that such an establishment has something to do with it – contrary to those here in the Chamber who like to chat with the whole idea. In the further negotiations with stakeholders, it is self-evident that emphasis is placed on the fact that the stakeholders in their plan demonstrate the ability to create an internationally competitive centre, the ability to take care of the regional dimension, which is particularly important, the ability to demonstrate how to obtain training, research and incubator activities in cooperation with educational and research institutions and industry. Briefly, the Storting must be followed up. In the previous decision, it is also said that the State can transfer its ownership into a joint ownership company and that the final area will be determined in consultation with the company entrusted with the development of the centre. I remind you of that, while I would like to point out the need for stakeholders to be able to correct their offer in relation to the final municipal sub-plan for Bærum. The majority also decided at the hearing on 31 May that the Government should submit its own proposal on the matter to the Stortinget, not later than 1 October 1999. It has been a commitment from the majority of the population that the government here should request an interested person, but that final choices should be made when dealing with the proposition. According to the government council Sponheim said in the debate here, one had to believe that he also founded this understanding. It must also be that one has to negotiate with all three stakeholders so far that the Stortinge has a proper basis for making its independent assessments of the stakeholders. When the majority of the committees in the configuration find reason to stress and clarify these statements, it comes about that in the Storing message it has been suggested that there should be opening negotiations with all three stakeholders, and concluded negotiations with one. The important thing for the majority of committees is that the Stortinget provides the best possible basis for comparison. It is also important that if the Storting makes a different choice from what the Government proposes, the process should not be delayed because the negotiations with the interested party have not come far enough. It has been clarified by the Government and the Government of Sponheim in many contexts the need for a democratic and fair process and competition. In previous debates here in Stortinget, representatives have owed the Labour Party and the Progress Party to go ahead of an interested party. What's really worth asking about in this case is whether State Council Sponheim has almost decided that one of the stakeholders should not get involved in any way even if the interested party should have the best concept both professionally and economically. After an Internet printing from the Address Paper on Wednesday 16 June, the Minister of Economic Affairs has been in Steinkjer and warned against IT Fornebu. It is such that IT Fornebu is now building a network for distance learning – over a large part of the country – that actually produces many places now and shows the district-friendly possibilities of information and communication technology, which we have apparently expected. Among other things, the project management in the IT city of Steinkjer has also entered into an intention agreement with IT Fornebu. In the Address Paper, the Minister of Industry now warns against those who are ‘led to believe that this will give IT Fornebu some regional political advantage in the fight for establishment at the previous main aerodrome’. He adds: ‘There is no reason to believe that IT Fornebu is the best at regional solutions by the three candidates.’ He refuses to deepen what the other two have to offer the districts. Yes, I look forward to knowing what the other actors have of regional supply. I think that everyone would be interested in the offer, at least the ones that can be given insight, be made public as soon as advice is available, and that it is good that we are now asking that public opinion be kept up to date. Minister of Industry Sponheim has once been a spokesman for the public in the administration, so I would like to challenge him on this: When will he publish the various offers? I think that's a good reason why the Storting now stresses that we need to get a good enough decision base in the upcoming collapse proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e184	First, Mr Rudihagen's statement. What he now mentioned about what has been said in the Address Paper is alarming. What should be a task of the Council of State and of a department is to do the job they are assigned to according to what the Stortinget has said – not to exclude an actor in advance, as this may suggest. But I get to get back to it in a three-minute post, because this came very quickly at me. In the examination of Document No: 8:58 Recently, to set up an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu in front of the Stortinget, there was a broad majority – all parties in the Business Committee, with the exception of the Right – who wanted the Government to present a big message in the spring session with an update of the case and progress in the negotiations with the three private stakeholders. Having inserted me into the content of the message, I would like to stress that all the providers have to make arrangements so that the Storting can assess the three offers on an independent and practically equal basis. This is a necessity because it is the Stortinget which is to take the final decision on the further progress of the process. A proposal on the matter shall be submitted by 1 October at the latest, and the Stortinge shall then have a real opportunity to address the matter and see who is most appropriate in the light of the information supplied by the Government. In a letter dated 15 June, the Ministry states that negotiations will be concentrated on the company that the department has chosen in the final phase, while the other companies will be put at rest. Furthermore, it appears that it would be unusual and significantly complicated to negotiate agreements with all three stakeholders by 1 October. Let it be clear: we must not risk getting into a situation where there is a winner in advance. The Party considers that it must negotiate as far as possible with all three actors in order to make a real choice on the part of the Storting. Of course, we understand that there may be certain things that cannot be published. That's the way it is in the business world. However, it must be the responsibility of the Ministry to deploy the necessary resources to enable this to be achieved. However, the extra costs are minimal in relation to the values that, due to rigidity, are not remunerated at Fornebu. If not all three are allowed to participate as far as possible in these negotiations, we are at risk of new delays. If the Storting goes in for an actor other than the one chosen by the Government, there may be additional delays if not everyone is fully followed. On a number of occasions, the majority of adults have pointed out that there is a pressing need to get started, including: in order not to be subject to competitive constraints. It may be appropriate to recall that the Fornebu case was discussed in the United Kingdom in December 1997, in May 1998, in June 1998, in November 1998, in February 1999 and in May 1999. This is due, inter alia, to: Training and little willingness to follow up the assumptions of the Big One and the majority on the part of the Government, as we see it. The Progress Party considers that there is no basis for claiming that there is no time for negotiations with the three parties, so that the Stortinget has a sure basis for making an independent assessment and choosing the best option in line with the previous decisions of the Stortinget. The government has three months to do the work it should have done a long time ago, and we believe that the resources that the central government has made are well available. We're going to promise to keep up our development with the arctic eyes. I've said it before, but I'm repeating it here: no one deserves the process to be drawn out in time. No one deserves to be likened to an eternal American soap opera that only ends when the last bubble breaks, and the last interested person may have left the scene.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e207	Once again, the drama has calmed down, and the government can get some rest. Rarely did I think that the word word «very peel and little wool» has better fit. In the summer, the government will open negotiations with the three stakeholders that have provided the best services for the development of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. The government will, of course, follow its decision and the guidance given in the further work. This is the relationship of power between accumulation and government. It is gratifying for the centre, and then for the Christian People's Party, that the majority accept that the Government, as it is normal and reasonable, sets up the company that can best meet the many demands and expectations that just the majority have raised in this matter, together with others as well. We note that the Labour Party and the Progress Party want the three providers to be involved in the process as far as possible. It's also natural the way things stand. Of course, no one has been excluded in advance. It's three good, serious stakeholders. That's why they've been picked up for the further process. What still stands out is that the government has to choose in the last round, and then, of course, the best shift.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e218	For the nth time, the Stortinget will debate the IT Fornebu case, as it has so much been called. This time, too, it is not the contents of what is going to come out there, which is the main point, but the procedure. And in the game of who's going to get access to the state's territory on Fornebu, the majority doesn't mind any effort, so they're taking the Storting on a new round on the board today. The majority, the Labour Party and the Advance Party, take the absolute last effort on Stortinget's closing day in the spring session. This is done to ensure that the proposition to be made on the first day of the Storting's meeting in the autumn has a design and arrangements to make it as simple as possible to ensure that the results of the same lots have worked so intensively for so long must be realised without undue attention being paid. St.meld. No 42, which the Business Committee has been dealing with in 11 hours, is, in substance, a non-ordinary notification. This probably does not come as a shock to anyone, as most of this case has been unusual. The message we are dealing with today contains no news, it leaves no questions, it only contains of course, but it informs us, to say the least, quite clearly, that the government will negotiate to deal with the matter in the way that such cases are normally handled. The government has described the selected procedure in the message. In short, negotiations will begin with all three companies. Then the final dealer with the company that appears to be the most suitable, and submits a proposition to the Stortinget, which the Stortinget has asked for by 1 October. However, such a procedure for the proceedings of the Government is not satisfied with the majority, the Labour Party and the Advance Party. As stated in the vote, one would like to intervene in the negotiating strategy chosen by the Government. The plural says the government must: ‘put a negotiating strategy/plan for all three operators concerned so that the Storting can assess the three offers on its own basis’. So the majority goes in and tells the government another way to deal with the proposition that Stortinget has asked for, which is going to be ready when we get back on 1 October. It is despite the fact that the Council of State has stated in letters that such a procedure must be regarded as both quite unusual and significantly complicated. He also writes that such a procedure would be impossible to maintain on the 1st of October. I have to say that when I heard Rudihagen's posts today, where he somehow needed to make it clear that the majority has not in any way pointed out a candidate, I think the whole statement and the body language almost bear witness to the exact opposite. And when the representative Hedstrom is talking about soap operas, I have to say that those who have been in charge have done a fairly good job. Perhaps one of the most interesting things that Rudihagen pointed out was that the public should have access to and maximum transparency in this case, not least in the context of the offers that are now available. I believe that the public and the public would have a very great interest in accessing the material on which the department sits, from 1993 onwards when Rudihagen was Secretary of State in the Ministry of Transport, and right up until that date. As far as I have seen, the book market is not better than that this could have been a bestseller, even in the middle of a common holiday that soon stands at the door. What is absolutely certain is that the proposition we get for treatment for the autumn must have a clear recommendation on what we should do. For the Right part, we don't have the ‘hang up’ either way or the other way. What matters to us is that they choose the company that is best suited to establish what the majority of people have decided. The message we now have for treatment also shows that it is the State Council of Davay and the Ministry of Administration that are to take over the staf stick. I really just want to take advantage of the opportunity to wish for happiness, thank the State Council, Sponheim, for a great deal of effort on the rise and hope that the staf stick will be delivered in a good way. But I have to say that this matter shows in sum how dangerous it is when the Storting is going to enter early into processes at a level of detail that is far from the advisable. And I would be very surprised if we were to experience in the autumn that when we set the line for this, like all the questions were answered. I think, unfortunately, that will be as I have experienced in this matter: for every debate that is taking place, the question marks are getting bigger and bigger.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e240	The parody of IT Fornebu continues. Today’s suspension and the procedure that has taken place are such that it is really difficult to take it very seriously. But unfortunately one has to, since we are in the nation's national assembly and that, unfortunately, is also the majority for what is in the position. The Labour Party and the Advance Party are doing here what has really been their only concern right from the start of the discussion of this matter, and there are two things. The first is to humiliate the Council of States as much as possible without having the courage to promote what had been a natural consequence of everything you say, has said and written, namely a motion of censure. And once again, they show that their only concern is to ensure that one investor group, Fred. The Olsen Group shall receive the award of the attractive property on Fornebu. It was particularly highlighted in the statements made by the case-rapporteur, Mr Rudihagen, who cannot be seen as anything other than a purely defence speech for the investor forum's concept at Fornebu. The majority write in the setting: ‘The majority assumes that all concrete leadership of the Storting has been set out in different configurations and decisions in the negotiations to be carried out by the Selection Board.’ And they also write that "The size on an independent basis can assess the three offers". At best, this cannot be seen as anything but deep mistrust, in the worst cases as distrust. And such a proposal should – if you want it – have the courage to promote rather than run with this which is just a parody. I don't need to defend the State Council, Sponheim, but after the central parties initially cleared up and also gave their acceptance that it was necessary to build a knowledge centre on Fornebu, the central government has managed the matter well in my opinion. It is shocking to experience that the country's two largest parties act in a way that then obviously weakens their own credibility and their integrity in this matter. The motives for what the country needs in terms of IT competence in the future have come to the fore, and the game, and not least to ensure one investor group an attractive property, even state subsidies, has come to the fore. So a few words about the procedure here. I don't know that there are parallels to it in our administration, but I'm not going to rule out that it exists. What is to happen now is that three parallel offers are to be negotiated, which are to be negotiated almost at the end of the negotiations. Then the Storting will have the opportunity to choose the offer that you think is the best, and based on the leadership given here, you know what it is. In a way, it would have been more tidy, more honest and more honest that the two parties that make up the majority in this case had just said right out: we want Fornebu to be built out of Investor Forum – let them just as easily get it right away, then Storting will release this parodical treatment. As the only party, SV has always warned against IT Fornebu, warning against the concept that exists here. That's not what the country needs in the next millennium. This is an old-fashioned idea, an old-fashioned idea that is not supported by any of the computer environments we have in Norway, and it should itself be a cross of thought for those who make up the majority here. Thus, there is not one major data company in Norway that wants to do so. There isn't one college or one university that wants this to happen. There are no competent people – perhaps with a few exceptions – who have said that spending a lot of billions on Fornebu and centralising a decentralised education or decentralised technology is meaningful. On the contrary, the country needs something quite different, and it is also highlighted by all competent people working in this sector. What we should have done was to build high-speed lines to the whole country at maximum cost, bets at colleges, at universities, set up colleges, build up the many computer environments we have around Norway, bet on research parks that we have. Many parts of the country have research parks with up-to-date IT environments that are well advanced both technologically and not least in terms of human resources. What we should have done, too, was to take a piece of IT fornebu and give it to all the country's classrooms, so that in all the classrooms in the country, in the next year, you would have had access to modern technology – with the Internet, with connection, with software, hardware, all that we need. It's a paradox that here we have a technology -- the first big quantum leap in technology -- that is, by its very nature, decentralizing, and then the bulk of the population here picks the opposite, centralizing a decentralised technology. On top of everything, this won't bring us a step forward. We don't get any more computer engineers from this, we don't get any more competence for the country from this. On the contrary, this can act as a vacuum cleaner, a vacuum cleaner to centralise much of the competences that Stortinget and many different professional environments have spent years building up in many places in Norway. We're a small educational nation, we're a small research nation, we're a small industrial nation. Then we have to use the resources we have in the best possible way. This is to go back into the future, it's abuse of state resources, it's abuse of public property, and not least it's a dead end for future Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e262	After a lot of political drama and many rounds here in Stortinget, the issue of an IT centre at Fornebu is brought into a positive track, with political governance, openness and open competition. Even in advance of this message that Stortinget is now receiving, there was a certain impetus to drama, with headlines in the media about new attempts at over-management by the Minister of Industry and Government. There is also a certain attempt to maintain that dramatism. But I am glad that this does not reflect in today's setting. In St.meld. No 42 The Government has demonstrated that it follows the decisions of the Stortinget in the past in the case and the usual procedures for negotiation. Although two different comments have been submitted by the Committee, the reality is fully in line with the Government's line in the case. So it was mentioned by the representative Hedstrom that this was a soap opera. As far as soap operas are concerned, each person is given an opinion on who are the leading suppliers and the most active operators in this context. The case is in that track and is at the level it should be. From the left, no further comments are required in the context beyond the comments in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e275	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e278	The Storing Message for treatment today, St.meld. No 42, is primarily about clarifying and explaining the process that has been so far, and the process that the Government has now set out until the proposition is presented. With the history around this, I think it's natural that the Storting gets this orientation, because when this competition was over and it turned out that there were three so good providers that it was necessary and proper to spend longer time to be able to pick out the best, it was of course also taking the Storting on the basis of that decision of the Government. Then it is that when the Storting has asked the Government to make a proposition, it is in that the Government is to invite the Storting to a decision, and then the Government must have made a decision for its part as to who they think is best. But of course, a proposition will contain all the material that Stortinget needs to make his decision and his superiors in order to make a choice, either – and I hope so – in accordance with what the Government had to decide, or whether to come up with a different choice in the Stortinget. In this way, today’s vote is in line with the Government’s position on further proceedings. I would like to stress that precisely this way of doing so is necessary because here we are facing the situation that three of the seven providers are so good, that it is necessary to have further proceedings and have negotiations with all three. And I would like to stress that there is no contradiction between how the government thinks about this, and what the majority say is that you want the talks and negotiations with these three to go so far that the Stortinge gets a real decision-making basis. But it's a proposition, and it makes the government have to invite to a decision based on what is the Government's position in the matter. That's pretty obvious. Then the representative Rudihagen raised two specific issues. I understand that there are some headlines in the Address Paper that have alerted reactions. I must say I wonder about it. I have expressed it a little natural to the exciting and good project in the IT city of Steinkjer that in order to succeed, they must cooperate with all the good forces. It is good that they cooperate with IT Fornebu, but they also need to cooperate with others who can contribute something to the project. And they also confirmed that they think that way. So I think getting a regional development around the country is too important for success or failure to depend on the concrete decisions that had to be made at Fornebu. It definitely does not exclude any of the providers, but it invites these regional IT environments to attract exchanges on the many good environments we have around the country. With regard to the last issue of publication, all the offers offered by providers are now publicly available. I also believe that there are some representatives who have received it, so it will be available and could be made known to everyone. But I would like to stress that there are many who still hold the cards close to the chest, so the negotiations will probably bring out a lot of important and exciting realities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e292	I want to take from what Rudihagen was in the address paper, and who now the council also commented on. I got to see the print here and what it said in the Address Paper, but with the experience that some of us may have had with journalists, what is written doesn't necessarily have to be right. But what the Address Paper says is that IT Fornebu, with the establishment of networks for distance learning, has no regional policy advantage, and that there is no reason to believe that IT Fornebu is the best of the three candidates for regional solutions. I would like Sponheim to confirm or cancel this. These are relatively round formulations, but I feel that as a department and a government council should now prioritise, it is going into the matter and finding out who best meets the assumptions, i.e. the assumptions made by the Storting in the matter, which have been repeated. I would also like to remind the Council of State of the hearing in the Committee some time ago, in which he confirmed on my question that, in the competition for the Fornebu area, the Ministry was to focus, within a single plan, not only on the exploitation of the physical Fornebu, but also on the importance of regional investment and linking to the international environment. To this end that the department does not have enough time, according to the response letter given to the committee, to negotiate fully with all three companies, I would like to stress: this must be given priority. Resources must be set up to enable the size of the harvest to decide, and the department of a proposition to do so thoroughly that the Storting can choose the best on a professional basis. In any case, the costs will be minimal in relation to the billions that cannot now be remunerated at Fornebu today. Let's estimate the area values at NOK 2 billion – this is a soluble estimate from my side – and set 5 pst. in interest, it's going to be a 100 million loss. kr since we here in Stortinget processed the IT message last year. Further postponement has a price tag of 10 million. kr of the month! It would have been good to have it, Councillor — you could fund a lot of hospitals and other important tasks. Finally, the government has to do the job, you have to negotiate completely with the three stakeholders, and do not try to take the right of destination from Stortinget. Let's let go of several postponements, the majority will hold the government responsible for new postponements.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e305	Even skin traps can touch – if there is life in the fur. What can be read from the majority remarks in this position and what has been made from the Chair of the case by Mr Rudihagen and Mr. Heathstream, shows that there's still some kind of wonderful movement. Sir. Rudihagen struggled that someone in this room has suspected the coalition of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party to have a particular interest by one actor in this image. Then he used the rest of the post to confirm that that suspicion is more justified, for the rest of the post was the reading of a medium advertising brochure from the precisely concerned actor. The representative Hedstrøm spoke of this as a soap opera. It may be a good picture, but the score that the Labour Party and the Advance Party have always sung for, is obviously made by text writers outside the Storting. And it's not hard to recognize the author, because it's the same terminology it's all about. The rapporteur said that it is important that the Storting should finally be given ‘a proper basis for making its own assessments’. But the problem here is that that assessment has been completed by the majority all along, and the conclusion has been firm. Premises have been changed along the way, but the conclusion has been there all along. If it is to be understood that this conclusion has been reached without any basis for independent assessment so far, it becomes even more perceptive what we have witnessed in this matter. That was said by Mr. Hedstrom, and the same has been said repeatedly from the Workers' Party's singers in this opera, that one should follow this matter with the Argus eyes. It sounds reassuring. I'm not quite sure that you know the ancient mythology quite well and correctly know what the arctic eyes are, so I could imagine suggesting that in the coming acts you go over to a slightly different expression and talk about that you will follow this case with goose eyes, in good Norwegian it's called the 'heart sign'.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e316	It is obvious that both the Djupedal and the Wage seem to be on the right hand side of what they would like to do, namely, that the Labour Party and the Advance Party are running errands for IT Fornebu. My point was that in a democratically fair process, one cannot go out and exclude one of the stakeholders. It would be equally undemocratic to say that IT Fornebu is not qualified to be in this final question, as if it were the ones who should have it. There's not a word in what I've said, that we've preferred IT fornebu. I was just pointing to a newspaper lookup in the Address Paper that pointed out that State Council Sponheim had warned against IT-Fornebu, and I warned against anyone starting to exclude one of the stakeholders at this stage of the process. There's something quite different than holding a defense speech for IT Fornebu. So Djupedal suggested that the question of whether it is right to establish an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. It has been discussed so many times that it may not be the theme here today. However, the point is that an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu should not be set up against developments in the regions of existing higher education institutions and universities – the development environments around it. Competition is not between the districts and Fornebu, but between Norway and the rest of Europe. Because what we're seeing now is that we have a deficit in terms of IT competence in this country. This means that the districts are losing in relation to the key strokes, small businesses are losing in relation to big businesses, and we are not getting the developments that this technology offers. At Fornebu a large area was freed after the aerodrome was closed, and the question is, What should a part of this area be used for? It is Bærum municipality that is regulatory, and it will be no matter what a fairly large development takes place on Fornebu that can itself act as centralising – from the districts into the centre area. As I actually think it must be much better for the state to go in and have a hand on some of the things that are going to happen there, and sympathize with the fact that we are getting an establishment that the country is badly in need, simply to strengthen its IT competence in this country. And it's going to happen under some clear instructions, that this center is going to add the regional development areas elements that they need just in order to be where they are. That gives the technology possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e327	One of the problems with the credibility of the majority in this matter is that they do not listen to those who have a great deal of knowledge and insight into how both education and this industry should be organised and developed. We're missing this," says Rudihagen. Yes, of course we do! But why do we do that? That's because we haven't listened at all. And then it's not going to go against what's going on in universities, colleges and business environments around the country. But I ask myself: how in the world is it going to happen, if the majority of people don't even follow up with a real bet at colleges and in this industry elsewhere in the country, so that they actually have a choice? As it is now, they will be forced to cooperate with IT Fornebu, whether they will or not, because the centre will become a powerful centralizing force, which, by virtue of, among other things, Its large gift package from the state will be able to offer something that a relatively sparse higher education system otherwise in Norway cannot because they have never got the resources to develop it properly. So Rudihagen says you can't exclude one of the stakeholders initially, if that's what you want. But if it's not the best, you have to be able to do it. And that's what seems so strange now, that once you've figured out that someone is better than others, everyone still has to be there, despite the fact that some qualities are missing. I wonder what will happen if it turns out that the Investor Forum's project is not the best, and the Government will bring something else to the Stortinget, which may be well-founded on the basis of an intention to build an IT fornebu. I think we'll see hopefully the last act in this opera, and I think it'll be just as fake and atonal as it's been so far. I could also want to ask the right about something, because when we dealt with this matter in February, there was some openness both in the middle parts and in the right to say that one had watered a little into this without fully knowing what it was. The table had caught a bit during the treatment, and suddenly, like IT, Fornebu was a kind of construction that you couldn't get out of. And Jan Petersen went quite far in saying that he wasn't so sure that this was any good idea, but if it was so that there were many providers, it was the market that would decide if this was any good idea. Then I think there's a reason to ask the right now: do they still have that opinion? Or can it not be that the providers in this case are actually interested precisely because there is a large and valuable plot here, and not because the idea is particularly good?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e338	First to the representative Hedstrøm: I think it would raise considerable reactions in this room if I on my many trips around the country, where I meet these IT environments, on questions from the journalists would begin to express my opinion of who is best in the different areas of this phase of the process. In fact, I'm not going to say who's best in any area, even if I had an opinion about it. That's what I've expressed. I have not said that someone is the worst. I have said that this should now be negotiated and assessed, and then the Government will take a stand. I would like to stress that we are focusing on all the elements that have been said to be present. It's supposed to be a good center. It will have a regional significance. Not least this government is busy. That is why we also started working on this matter with a big message about regional IT development. But we also need to ensure that this centre has an international competitiveness in order to attract skilled workers, not only from different parts of the country into Oslo, but from abroad to Norway. We agree on this. But it's not like I've said that someone is the best or the worst in any of the areas. I have also not stated that e.g. Fornebu Technoport’s option is best in district development, although they have an entire research park network. This is what the Government will have a sense of when the proposition comes. So to these 2 billion in losses and the interest calculation that the representative Hedstrom was into. I hope that's not how the Progress Party is balancing its budgets; it's hard for us to make these values visible or realize until we've got a regulation plan for this large property area. I've expressed it too many times. Then it is first possible to say what the properties can be used for, and thus to obtain the real values and implement them. As you know, the regulation plan for Bærum, Municipal Council level 2, was dealt with in the local government in Bærum two days ago, so it would have been difficult to realise some of this before we actually had a regulatory purpose and could sell the properties after that. I would like to emphasise again that I have not at any time stated that any of the three stakeholders that are now in the final phase of the competition are excluded. On the contrary, I have said that everyone is good and has qualities in slightly different areas. We are going to go deeper into this through negotiations. The government will make its decision about who's best, and then we invite the Stortinget to make its decision on the basis of a thorough proposition. But I'm recording that when there are now suddenly three equivalents on the starting line of this final heat, it's a significant degree of nervousness to track the stakeholders, and especially perhaps in those who have long felt that they have had a head start. Now these are equal. The government assumes that it is now the best one to win, and I record that the Storting is also expressing itself. And now the negotiations begin. State-building will lead the negotiations by the Government, complemented by competent IT people and knowledge. And then I hope that after this one doesn't have to be left with the impression that the exciting IT Norway starts with a project at Fornebu, because there has been a lot of exciting happening around the country. This might complete a national picture, because the project at Fornebu actually has a long way to go before it's as good as many of the other environments we have in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e349	I must confirm that the State Council of Sponheim today made a clarification on the further process. I take the Council of State seriously when he says that he wants to provide all the information that is exciting so that the Storting can make a choice between the three actors with whom it is now to be negotiated. I'm also glad that State Council Sponheim has now taken the initiative to publish the three offerings, so that we and others can go into the offer and make a point of which one is the best, based on the statements that we think it should be in an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. I thought that State Council Sponheim now added to a handling that would make it possible for the temperature to go down somewhat in this matter. So: No pay was very busy with skin traps and they're moving. Yes, that's a good example of Inge Wohnung himself. All the posts I've heard from Inge Wohnung about this matter here in the hall, have basically our posts that are about what we think about, and hardly a word about what Inge Wohnung thinks about the development of IT competence and IT-related business in this country. It might be nice to know if he had other thoughts than just skin traps, and preferably others' skin traps, not his own. So to Djupedal, who suggests that this is an old-fashioned idea. There is no company and no university that will have this IT knowledge center at Fornebu. I have been in politics for so long that I know that new things often have to get into conflict, and this is probably such a case as well. I invite the representatives of Djupedal, Gabrielsen and Wohnning to take a trip to Øresund and see what Sweden and Denmark are about to establish there. All of these three might have something to learn. It might be a good use for summer holidays.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e362	First, to the case-rapporteur, Mr Rudihagen, who, in his speech again, confirmed what has been pointed out by several speakers. He is trying frantically to free himself from what is so full of, namely that one must at all times ensure that the premises are so well arranged that Fred Olsen and a bunch of relinquished shipowners and politicians will have access to the attractive property. I encourage Rudihagen to read carefully through his posts and see what he has actually said from the pulpit today. If you then wear the glasses that I have and that many others have in this room, namely that we have a deep scepticism for the procedure that the majority of the business committee has had all along, and the reasons that have been given for that procedure, you might see that the submissions are not perceived in any other way than that they could have been written by one of the probably many competent people that the Investor Forum has on its payroll. Well, then, sir. Opseth: When this case first came up, it was so that many university environments feared what this was going to be, and for some time many spoke out – for fear of standing outside a train you would come – in such a way that you would like to establish something on Fornebu. As universities and the higher education community and many companies have looked at the matter more closely, it has become clearer and stronger in the belief that this is not what Education-Norway or Research-Norway needs. Recently, the newly elected Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oslo has graduated and said clearly that this is not a University of Oslo that supports. The University of Oslo has also decided that the new Centre for Informatics should be built in the Gaustadbeck Valley, and not in Fornebu. So here, you were going to build a new research center, combined with the university, but you chose to say that IT Fornebu is not what we need, we have enough plots and skills in the Blinder area, and it's going to be built there. The same applies to the NTNU and SINTEF environment, which is the heaviest research environment in technology in Norway, which has strongly warned against this all the way. In the beginning, you were also afraid to stay on the sideline if a train went you had to be on, but after it has become more and more clear that there are completely different motives than the Norwegian competence behind, the NTNU and SINTEF environment have also warned strongly. At the latest in today's newspaper, the director of SINTEF, Gunnar Sand, strongly goes out and warns against IT Fornebu. And why do you do that? You do it for the simple reason that you see that this is not what Norway needs. These are people who manage and teach future Norwegian engineers and students on a daily basis. If this was such a brilliant idea, of course, the most competent people in Norway would have said: Yes, we are in agreement with this, we are in favour of this, and this is good! On the contrary, there is so far no one who has gone out and said it – not even the leaders of the large Norwegian data companies, or the large foreign data companies, has gone out and said that this is what the country needs. [[The President clubs.]] And I like to spend the holiday at Øresund [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e377	Time's up. The President believes that we have a long day ahead of us, and the President will not allow anyone to go beyond the measured speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e382	The representative, Karin Andersen, called for the Right's view on this matter. I can't see that there's any reason, because the Right has expressed the same opinion from the first time in the handling of this case, namely that we assume that the plot area of the state, the Municipality of Oslo and other owners of Fornebu, probably the most valuable country, will be sold at market prices, and that there will be no direct or indirect subsidisation of anyone in that context. And we have said that what is the role of the state in a future image of Fornebu is what is the primary task of the state, namely education and research. And to the extent that academic environments for education and research in this area say this is meaningful, and want to participate and exploit the potential synergy effect with strong IT environments at Fornebu, it is excellent. The representative, Opseth, had trouble seeing what I and the Right stood for in this matter. Yes, when people have problems with understanding, it may be that they have up to several reasons, including: that the listener is not the most developed part of the person’s equipment. The representative Opseth has many strong sides, but the exact listening device has never been the most powerful, I think. The right view in this matter is exactly the view that can be read today in a very insightful article by Sintef-director Gunnar Sand in today's business. It's the same view that all the universities and especially the two largest and heaviest, NTNU and the University of Oslo, have constantly expressed in this matter. It should be true that it is not very difficult to perceive, if you were at all interested in performances other than the visions you always have in your own head. Now the terminology of the coalition Workers' Party and the Advance Party have changed along the way. This time it is said in the majority position that there is a center of international format to be used. In the past, it has had a centre of international importance. If I understand, sir. Setting up correctly, the format is to consider the number of m2 to use. There are as we know many kinds of formats in this world. In this context, the comparison with Øresund and what Denmark and Sweden are doing is, in my opinion, very uninteresting, because it is not at the end that you start. That's the content that's interesting, and not the number of m2 that's going to be used.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e403	This became a loud discussion. I take the floor because there are actually some people in this room who have almost produced IT Fornebu as a magnet that sucks competence from the districts. I just want to say that in Hedmark, where I come from, there's a company formed, and we have a lot of companies that run IT and further skills within that branch. As a result of the OL expansion, the Mjö region has received the best information technology infrastructure in the country, and Viking Venture wants to develop further. And they say in positive terms that there should be a competence center for IT at Fornebu. It will be very important for Norway to develop industrial plans with adequate perspectives and visions, and it is important that IT Fornebu is now able to spread satellites across the country and disseminate expertise. I don't understand what we're so afraid of. I am aware that many people think that it is completely wrong, that there are thoughts of centralisation, etc., but at least let's not make it like this. In fact, districts are concerned with further developing their competences. I will not go any further into what the representative for the salary was about. On the basis of his replication to Opseth I would say that there are many in this room who could need a telescope from time to time. And in the case of skin traps, I've read that skin traps can get lives if they get help from the outside, namely through the fleas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e420	: Djupedal repeats old claims and has nothing new to come with. When he has nothing new to come with, he goes so far that he starts insinuating in an insinuating way that my post should be produced by representatives of IT fornebu. The representative of Djupedal repeats once again that I held an article for IT Fornebu. The point is exactly what State Council Sponheim has now stressed, that there are three good, maybe equivalent stakeholders. What I then warned against was that someone in this period would go out and warn against one of the stakeholders, as that interested person was certainly in the process of building a network around the country, which is actually in line with the statements that Stortinget has pulled up. I think the representative Djupedal has to show where in my post I have made myself a spokesman for one of the stakeholders, when one goes so far as to insinuate such things. So he repeats that no one will have the center, no college, no university, no business. In this case, we have had a long process with many ears. And there are actually a lot of just those environments that have expressed a positive attitude to an IT and knowledge center at Fornebu. It's coming out in St. Report. No 13, by a letter from the Ministry of Economic Affairs: «As indicated by St. gemeld. No 13 wish the University of Oslo and Norway's technical and natural sciences universities to add part of their right-hand degree education to an IT centre at Fornebu. [[1998-99]] This is primarily in order to enable universities in their degree, primary and secondary education to take advantage of the competence brought to Fornebu by enterprises/enterprises. Furthermore, the University of Oslo also sees the possibility of adding some of its research activities to Fornebu. This applies to activities where there will be a possibility of significant cooperation with other actors, such as TELENOR.’» The point of whole establishment in relation to the existing high-school and development environment around the country is that by connecting to Fornebu, they can access resources and elements that they do not have the possibility of where they are and that can actually make them simply move into central areas. Contrary to centralisation, I believe that this centre will appear to be decentralised.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e436	It was the representative of Djupedal who made me take the floor, because he with great weight told me that the Institute of Informatics had such a strong desire to be at the University of Oslo and not move to Fornebu. Yes, it actually ensured a majority here in Stortinget at the initiative of the Labour Party and the Right. The Lilletun Council had taken up with the Institute whether or not they should move to Fornebu, and there was one matter in the Committee, where the Committee and the later Stortinget put an end to it, so that the new Information Centre is now being built in the Gaustadbeck Valley to be integrated into the other areas of the University. I also want to repeat that, in the case of educational institutions, it is on their own premises and at their own request that they should, if necessary, participate in a possible IT centre at Fornebu, which is set out in all documentation throughout the process from both the Church, Education and Research Committee and from the Business Committee. Finally, the most important thing is that the majority of the Storting want an integrated centre on Fornebu. At the same time, on a free basis, a person wants to be able to assess which project of the three stakeholders is the best. This has been confirmed by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade to be done. It's not harder. This case is comparable to the frigate case, where the final decision in this house is to be made on an independent basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e447	Øystein Hedstrom has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e450	When you listen to some representatives from the opposition in this room, it seems that there is a great deal of negativeism, you don't want any international, competitive, valuable IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu, while our neighbouring countries, Denmark and Sweden, want to be involved in creating new value-creating jobs in the high-tech areas. The same thing happens in Finland. So I want to ask these representatives: what makes us here in Norway so negative and not willing to bet on this? The Industry Committee has recently addressed both the ownership message and the business message, and the signals and grips associated with them were nothing concrete that could create new value-creating jobs in mainland Norway. And by value creation, I mean that the input factors have less value than what comes out at the other end of the production process. [[President clubs]] So be a little bit more positive, so Sponheim doesn't have to manage a business policy for relocation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e459	Those who say that there has not been anyone who has wanted to bet on research and education in this area, I think it must have slept very well for a long time. This has been proposed for many years, we have submitted several plans, and we have also submitted proposals on funds to invest in this. But we've had a different approach, we've had the approach that both Education Norway and the whole industry want. I listened to a debate on IT Fornebu before we had the big debate in February, and there was a representative of the industry who said what I think is right: Sell Fornebu! Sell Fornebu as a maximum bidder and spend the money at school, from elementary school and up to universities. Obviously, we also have to spend more money than we get for the plot, because this is a bet area, this is important, but the strategy is wrong, and that's the point. And after both listening to the debate now and following this matter carefully, I am sure that if we had known what we know today – if we had got the real and honest statements from the industry and from Education Norway that we are sitting with today – neither the Right nor the Center would have gone to the limelight. Then we had a choice to do something far more reasonable, and that's what this is all about. It's not about whether or not you're in favour of development and education, but it's about what strategy we're going to have. So to Grete Knudsen who says this is going to work, this is going to be a collaboration between the colleges and the educational institutions and IT Fornebu, and they're going to be able to choose the sea. I don't understand how they could have a choice if the resources were put in this center, and they're able to pay wages, for example. and provide opportunities for development to both professionals and people in educational institutions that we cannot, because we let them go to waste. It's clear it's going to be a magnet, and if we don't put in here any premises for educational institutions beyond the country so they can choose, so that they can choose whether to develop this on their own, maybe in collaboration with others in the industry elsewhere, how on earth are they going to get it done? Here, some sugar confectionery is put out on IT fornebu, but it does not happen that you get some candy sent back in the post, and then you have to go there to get them. The condition that it could become a reality that this should be decentralizing, as the Workers' Party now says it will do, is that you had to have an obligating plan that said it was. And resources had to be allocated to the educational institutions throughout Norway, so that they 1. Either they could cooperate with IT Fornebu because they thought it was right, or 2. could choose a different strategy because they thought it was right. It's not like that now, and decentralization isn't going to happen by itself.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e477	I listened with interest to the representative Hedstrøm’s engaged posts, where he spoke the word ‘value-creating’ with find and hug. I don't think it's new that we want an internationally competitive value-creating business in Norway. As far as I have been able to listen to the industry, among others. The IT industry is asking for better tax conditions, including: the elimination of taxes on wealth, kf. the manager of Merchantill data. That's what we want, sir. Hedstrom is given the opportunity to vote for or against later today. If he follows his party, he must vote against it. I have never heard industry representatives say that what is missing is more state-subsidized land. It's possible, sir. Hedstrom has such channels that he can convey such views, but I have never recorded that the IT industry is asking for it. That the IT industry is asking for more government involvement and participation in what the industry is going to do, or where they are going to develop on the ground, I have never registered. I have to say it as it is, I have also been to such presentation meetings with Mr. Vigtel and others. I've been listening. I feel in a way that there is something strange about this, because I think I hear the same saying from the Stockholm pulpit of some representatives. It's possible it's not a reading of a brochure, but it's at least the reading of a very strong commitment to a project. Now leave it. I'm sure summer will help you. Finally, the most important thing seems to me to have been said by the representative Grete Knudsen, who confirmed that the Council of State has the freedom, in this case as in the frigate case, to negotiate with those he wants and end up with whom he wants. And there is no obligation to negotiate in parallel with everyone. We will have a recommendation in this case, as in the frigate case, from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e486	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 and 3 are treated together. [[See page 4226]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e511	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate on these matters be limited to 3 hours and 5 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 70 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 25 minutes each, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Twist People's Party 10 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to five lines, with replies from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and up to three lines, with replies after the speeches by the main speakers of each political group, by parliamentary leaders and by other state councils within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e522	For the centre party and the Bondevik government, I am pleased to note that, for the fourth time in this process of enlargement, we have a budgetary management which, in my opinion, gives the financial policy governance that is required. This time the budgetary position has emerged through work in the Financial Committee without new agreements with the opposition. Let me add that the agreement underpinning the 1999 budget on subsidiary aid from the Progress Party and the Right is firm. The government party emphasises that through this setting we follow up the appointment from in the fall. When it relates to the opposition party, I will be happy to say that the committee's management has been well-managed, and that we have kept the deadlines. Of course, the main challenge of open committee management without agreement is that additional costs are incurred without the provision of multiple numbers for the corresponding containment. I mean the result we're presenting in Stortinget in this setting, is well adapted to the economic situation we can now see ahead of us. The government party has contributed to the increase in expenditure, but we have at the same time been involved and have shown coverage. The total loss in the balance sheet is about 450 million. NOK, of which is 100 million. kr to a petroleum technology fund. This is relatively small in relation to the size of the budget. The revision of the national budget is well in line with the objective of keeping the necessary adjustments in the current budget, as I stress it, above all, so that the budget is not completely remanded in the middle of the year. The Norwegian economy is solid, and it is confident that the government is in charge of fiscal policy. When interest rates have been gradually reduced and the gap between the Norwegian level of interest rates and interest rates in European countries decreases, it will also give positive impetus to business. An area has called for special attention, and there are additional costs associated with Kosovo's efforts. They're close to $1.8 billion for extra rights. Another area that has received considerable attention in this setting is, of course, the employment situation, especially in the shipbuilding and petroleum industries. This is important, because we can have weaker cyclical developments in competitive business in the future. I will reject the criticism of some opposition party against the Government in this area. I would like to include: pointing out that the Government in the context of the revised budget has presented measures to stimulate the activity of yard and oil-related activities. In this context, I would like to point out: So let's say I had 100 million. SEK in project-right technology development in the petroleum sector extension of the Guarantee Institute for Export Credit’s general guarantee coverage, as suggested in the proposals for the new research vessel project for the start-up of the project in 2000 to provide State guarantees of up to 300 million. For the second priority loan for new buildings and, where appropriate, for the conversion of ferries into national road links, it is necessary to assess the continuation of the Hurtigruta take-off scheme with a view to the construction of two new high-speed ferries which may be completed in the first half of 2002 for the redevelopment of two inland waterway vessels for which interest rates are continuing to decline – which will stimulate business as a whole. High interest rates and high rates of interest are difficult for many export businesses over time. I would also like to point out that unemployment is still lower than at the same time last year, but we are aware of difficulties in deferred sectors, as mentioned earlier. That is why we are also very positive about the Government's warning of the gradual closure of the production fee. In good understanding with the Government, we want to take the initiative for closer cooperation in relation to the supplier industry, operator companies and relevant employee organisations. The aim shall be to assess the different measures to maintain employment in this sector, so as to safeguard and develop competence in this sector, which is important for Norway. We also believe that it is necessary to evaluate the implementation of completely specific measures to support projects already planned on a Norwegian base, at the same time that search companies are encouraged. While such cooperation is important, it should help to ensure that oil companies and industry bring concrete – I stress concrete – measures in the form of investments that provide a more stable level of industry. In the labour market, we face a difficult problem that is not easy to see, and it is that we have pressure in the labour market in public services, while in parts of the competitive and export right part meets the opposite trend. Therefore, in the time to come, attention must be paid to finding a tool that can reduce the pressure in the display of nutrients, and to getting progress for the competitive part. I mean that the wage-fixed rate in ours and every now and then the reduction in interest rates will be a positive element in such a context. It is also gratifying for me to note that there is a broad political connection to the Government's monetary policy approach. I note that the main thrust of fiscal policy for 1999 is firm. Firstly, even after the management of the financial committee, there is still a reduction of 1⁄2 pst. of the GDP of mainland Norway measured by the change in the oil, interest rate and activity-adjusted budget surplus. The real underlying growth in the state budget's expenditure is well 1⁄2 pst. from 1998 to 1999, and it is slightly high. The government budget's oil-corrected budget deficit will be about NOK 11 billion. The deficit, covered by a corresponding minor transfer to the State Petroleum Fund, shall be at least 10 years. I would also like to point out that the country’s net revenues from the petroleum industry are now estimated to be approximately NOK 37 billion, which means that it will collect the surplus of the State Petroleum Fund and the State budget will be approximately NOK 30 billion. At the end of 1999, it can be expected that the total capital of the petroleum fund will be approximately DKK 200 billion. When it concerns the petroleum fund and its management, I have to be sorry that the Government does not get a full answer to its proposals to change the direction lines of the fund. The government has, as it will be known, proposed that it should not invest in companies that have tobacco production as their main activity. Unfortunately, the majority in the committee, and probably also the Storting, say no to that. I think this is a step backwards in relation to the work that, among other things. WHO does to reduce the use of tobacco in the world. This includes: to indicate the legal proceedings that have been conducted in the United States in relation to the tobacco industry. They show that this might not be the best area to invest in. I would have liked the Government to have given the Storting its agreement to refuse to make use of the petroleum fund's funds for investment in this industry. Nevertheless, it is positive that there is a multiple in the Committee which is major to the Government's suggestion to invest DKK 1 billion in an environmental fund. This is a testing scheme that needs to be closely followed up, and the government has also said that it will create a detailed list of the environmental criteria that Norway Bank will have. I would also like to add that I see it as positive if one in the selection of such activities can also give the reason why basic employee rights are followed. The objective of environmental requirements for investment from the petroleum fund is to influence investment in a more environmentally friendly way. And that there are tendencies towards a positive development, one might say. see that around 120 banks worldwide have signed the United Nations Declaration of Understanding on Financial Institutions in relation to the environment. Another objective is to help individual projects to become more open about the environmental impact of production. I consider it important that the environmental criteria developed are consistent with internationally accepted methods and that criteria can be tested. Finally, I would like to point out that the Government has taken care of the most important priorities, health, the elderly and districts within a tight framework. The fact that municipalities have come a long way in planning the elderly reform is particularly important, and the government party is pleased that the ISF system has been working to improve patient management. I have not used so many words on the biggest change in the budget, the effort associated with the crisis in Kosovo. I know there's a broad majority that ends up doing this, and I'm aware that the requirement for solidarity doesn't end if there's now been a peace agreement. I am sure that the Government will assess in an effective and good way how the Norwegian effort can be put in place to the best of the most possible and for a rapid normalisation of the Balkans. And then finally, I want to pick up all of the suggestions that the center parts make or that they're part of.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e582	Lars Gunnar Lie has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e587	The unemployment rate will increase, says the Government, which will rise to 30,000 more unemployed by the end of the year. The government also says that they want to spend their next generation of money, and so they don't have the backbone to do what they think is right, to spend less of the oil fund. But the center part here in Stortinget is even more greedy, taking even more money from our children and our children's children. And I assume that the representative Lie is satisfied that he has been involved in weakening the financial policy, i.e. being content to steer from day to day. From the Workers' Party's side, we take a force for business to get more people to work, and bet on youth, on education, i.e. a forward-looking policy. The Labour Party will have multiple numbers for most of the nutrition and education packages, not because of the center party, but because of the grievances in these parties. When the center spends more money from the oil fund, they don't spend any more money on the young -- they don't bet on the youth. There's no more kindergarten, there's no more school, there's no more school leave, there's no more student housing, there's no more decentralised higher education. And I think that the representative Lie, who is from the same region as I, knows what it means to get decentralised education out to the people. He knows what it means in the yard industry that activity is now being reduced, he knows what it means for the oil sector as well that there are going to be permits and more unemployed. Then my question to the representative Lie is: how can he help defend more oil money, and not bet on what's right for the future, not on the young and on the next generation, but on the past by running from day to day?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e598	The representative of Frøiland, when it comes to unemployment, does not have a basis for what has been submitted by the Government, and it has been rejected up to several times by the government. If you apply the worst-case scenario, you will get to a level much lower than the 30,000 that the representative from Frøiland will talk about. When it comes to pushing issues ahead, I would point out that this budget is the budget that spends less of the oil money in ten years – the ten years that the Labour Party has largely ruled. And that's why I didn't think there was any reason to say that the backbone of the government party and the government is bad. We can stand upright with what we have done. It's a proper budget we have to run by, a good budget we're going to carry on with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e605	Since this is a budget audit, I will not draw myself up to the great heights associated with a fierce budget debate, but there is a relationship I would like to ask the committee leader about. He began by saying that the government parties found it important to follow up the subsidiary budget agreement from the autumn. It may be said in many ways that they have done a great deal, but with regard to the question of input-based funding, in the time since the financial committee gave its opinion, opinions and positions on the part of the ministry have been related to how it intends to meet the hospitals and county councils' allocation requirements in relation to this, and it will therefore be appropriate to ask the chairperson of the committee how he believes, on behalf of the central parties, that this part of the budget agreement should be followed up. I would like to remind you that, through the last two budgetary procedures, we have placed considerable emphasis on increasing the percentage, which in turn means increasing patient treatment, and I would like to ask the committee leader to confirm that this is precisely what it means, increasing patient treatment, and that the government parties will ensure – or at least exert pressure against the Government in that direction – that there is no attempt here to hold back money precisely because there has been an increase in patient treatment based on a discussion on how the reimbursement should be. If it's the case that a system is so technically difficult to implement that no one understands what the criteria are, then it might be time to do something about it, rather than discuss how many patients have been treated.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e614	To the representative, Siv Jensen, I have this to say: we will follow up on what we have said about input-based funding. I expressed a positive attitude that we've been given increased patient care. That's what I said in my main post, and I like to repeat it here. In connection with this setting, we have said that the permissions should be an estimate, which means that they are controlled by the rules. The Council of States has also repeatedly stated that this should be followed up. But let me add at the same time that it is clear that one cannot expect reimbursements for things that have been done but that are not in line with the legislation that is in force. It has also been said that we should be able to come back to the matter later – to the autumn – if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e623	Only for the last theme, on input-driven funding: it is important that the chairperson of the committee is now correcting himself. This is not the case with the legislation in force, but with the legislation in force. There is an important difference, because the counties have to deal with the legislation they enter and do not accept changing the rules along the way. So to the main content of the committee leader and the general speakers of the government party, that this arrangement is well adapted to the economic situation. Then my question is this: what in the economic situation is it that now you need a less strict budget than you did last year? What indicates that the mitigating effect should be halved and that the oil-corrected deficit should be doubled? I'm very interested in knowing that. Because when reading today's and yesterday's newspapers and other newspapers this week, I haven't seen one economist point out that that's what you need. Rather, on the contrary, I read about an economist who in today's newspapers points out that interest rates can still go down, but when fiscal policy no longer delivers its contribution to the fall in interest rates, we will not come down to your finance minister's promise to come. So finally, when the revised national budget was presented by the Government, the chairman of the Finance Committee said that he would contact the parties behind the agreement on the budget last autumn, namely the Right and the Advance Party, with a view to negotiating a solution. What caused the representative of the government parties not to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e632	First back to input-driven funding. It is clear that there is also discussion about the legislation in force, and that discussion I expect will be concluded in a conversation between the department and the states it is in. I expect this to be done in a neat and neat way. I would also like to agree with the representative of Per-Kristian Foss that the budget should be tight. And when Foss asks if his financial policy has contributed, perhaps the best answer to that is to show that after we gave the position from the Financial Committee, the crown has strengthened. There's also a slight decrease in interest rates. It's not something I've been thinking about, but I just want to say that this is solid, it gives confidence further on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e639	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e643	The main objectives of the Party in this budgetary audit have been to secure jobs in vulnerable industries and to ensure well-being. In important areas, we have also had an impact on our proposals, and I would like to mention: The framework conditions for the petroleum sector are improved rapidly. The workshop industry is assured of greater activity. Decentralised higher education is ensured by increased funds. Increased funds for technical equipment and conversion to universities and higher education institutions are important in preparing for the reform of continuing education at higher education levels. More student homes will be built. Operational grants to kindergartens are being increased.The rates of outpatient treatment support are being increased to the level before the Government reduced it. And I can also mention increased grants for racial protection, express buses and fishing ports. This was not on the list of what Mr Bondevik has proposed. And very little of this, the center parties have found room to support in this setting. The main points of appeal of the working party against the Government in the context of the presentation of the revised national budget were the absence of measures with rapid effect in relation to the difficult situation in the workshop industry and petroleum-related activities. The oil industry is facing a sharp fall in investment this year and up to the next year. In the workshop industry, it's word dry. See 1999 and 2000 in conjunction, investments in the petroleum industry may fall by 39 pst. in relation to the level in 1998. In industry and mining, the fall could be 32 pst. And these aren't sad predictions from the Workers' Party, no, they're all according to the government's own forecasts in the revised national budget. If nothing is done, this must lead to lay-offs and lay-offs. This was early known to everyone, including the Government. Against this background, it was therefore extremely disappointing to see the Government’s proposal for a revised national budget, with an almost absence of measures to address the situation. The most comprehensive measure from the Government is to increase payments to passive unemployment benefits by 400 million. kr. However, in the setting up, the centre parties have found it appropriate to support some of the measures that the Storting will now take against the vulnerable industries in competitive activities. In the Workers' Party, we would wish we had gone even further than what the majority of people do. Aid for the construction of several fishing boats could secure the workplace in several exposed shipyards, as well as for the necessary renewal of the fleet. Of the letters we received from the Ministry of Finance in connection with the revised national budget, it appears that the construction of fishing boats in the group of 15-34 metres could have doubled on the Workers' Party's proposal to increase SND's support for renewal and capacity adjustment in the fishing fleet by 52 million. kr, had received a majority. And it's incomprehensible that the center parties didn't find it worth looking for discovery for such a grant. However, the working party has received almost full support for its business package. Government proposal to cut $12 million. kr to research and development contracts, is rejected. There is a majority of a temporary exemption from the investment levy for 2 years on the construction and upgrading of hydroelectric power plants. The contribution to fishing ports shall be increased by 20 million. kr. The work on racial protection is being strengthened and 150 more student housing is to be built. All these are dear tasks and measures for the workshop industry and the construction industry. The only centre parties have found room to support these measures are support for the conversion of inland waterway vessels and increased speed of renewal of the national roads. The first was probably actually pushed to by the Right and the Advance Party, and the second they agree because it does not have a budgetary impact until next year. In the Workers' Party, we are also strongly critical of the fact that there are only funds for 6 000 places of action for the rest of the year. We propose to increase the number of action sites by 4000 in the second half of the year. Several active measures under labour market measures would have been useful to maintain and strengthen the competence of those currently in vulnerable industries. It is indicative of the Bondevik Government's failure to give priority to preparedness for increasing unemployment in vulnerable industries. Despite the government's own estimates that the unemployment rate will increase in the course of the year, nothing is happening through the Labour Market Act. In fact, they are going against the budgetary position, both in the operational resources of the Labour Market Act and in the measures. This is marked right policy! With this setting, the size will take important decisions that will improve the framework conditions for the petroleum industry. These measures will help to mitigate the fall in investment activity, and several of the proposals will help to bring forward more socio-economicly profitable projects, which would otherwise not be realised. It has been argued from the Prime Minister's office that the Workers' Party and the majority in these areas do not propose anything other than what the Government has already proposed. That's not right. For the first time, the majority of the population is now taking the step of asking the Government to enter into negotiations with the oil companies immediately for a field-by-field reduction in the production levy in order to generate more socio-economically profitable additional investments in existing fields. In this case, the growth rate will increase faster than the government. Furthermore, the majority are asking the Government to include the petroleum sector in a future CO2 emission allowance system. This is not the Government's proposal. Furthermore, the majority of the population ask the Government to propose how to reduce the CO2 tax until the offshore sector is included in the quota system, including the possibility to differentiate between old and new fields with the aim of stimulating increased development. This is far from the Government's proposal. Furthermore, the majority also ask the Government to investigate the entire petroleum tax system and to propose changes during the year 2000. This is not the Government's proposal either. So if this was the government's proposal, as it has been claimed – yes, then there remains a mystery why the government parties are going to vote against it today. A new fund of 100 million. kr for petroleum-oriented technology development is fully agreed. However, the government has failed in its proposal to amend the petroleum law to take this money straight out of the petroleum fund. Now the funds will be allocated in the ordinary way. One of the most forward-looking things we can do is bet on education. Major and important school reforms have been carried out in the last 10 years. The working party has gone to the top for this. But that doesn't mean the whole job is done. Quality has to be increased in all parts of the school, and adults who did not have the opportunity to attend high school when they were young have to have it as adults. Through this attitude, the Workers' Party contributes to important efforts in the field of education policy. Keywords are decentralised education, equipment at universities and student housing. We want to bet on competence and knowledge in the districts to ensure the settlement. The reform of continuing education requires an increased focus on decentralised education. The experience with decentralised education is very good. They often have a lot of searching, and those who carry it out remain largely in their territory. Decentralized education is also an important family policy because it allows people to take the education where they live. Universities are facing major shifts requiring the development of new and networked forms of education and a more committed interaction between university and student. The implementation of the reform of continuing education and training also poses new challenges for universities. Study programmes must be organised in such a way that individuals can benefit from their real competence in the study situation. The majority’s commitment to decentralised education, to university equipment and to several student housing is a clear and important signal of strengthening the field of education. So far, I have chosen to focus attention in my contribution on important measures to the industries where we can expect permits and increase unemployment in the coming period, as well as measures in the education sector. I have done this because, as politicians, we need to show the will and ability to act when jobs in important competitive industries are at risk, but also because the measures the Workers' Party is involved in its food and employment package are important elements of an alternative macroeconomic approach, different from what the Government governs. Since last year the Labour Party has warned of a stronger economic envelope than the government laid down in the 1999 national budget. This is now confirmed by the government’s new forecasts in the revised national budget, where the growth rate of the mainland economy is halved to 0.7 pst. in relation to the estimate in the national budget. Based on an average growth of about 3 pst. earlier in the 1990s, this means a severe slowdown in the economy. One of the main aims of the budget tightening before Christmas was to replace the market-driven tightening we had through a hugely high interest rate, with a fiscal tightening through the budget, thus helping to bring down the strangely high price and cost growth, including the high Norwegian interest rates. A continuing tight labour market in many sectors so far in the first half of the year, higher private consumption than previously estimated, strong growth in retail sales and relatively high oil prices are in favour of maintaining the tightness of the budget. The Labour Party has throughout this financial year considered that fiscal policy should be stricter than the government's. In the context of the revised budget, our budget is 1.2 billion kr tighter on an annual basis compared to the government's budget. This is consistent with the arrangement we were on before Christmas. Our proposals for a few minor tax increases will help to mitigate private consumption. Furthermore, a greater proportion of the costs of our alternative approach to targeted action in vulnerable industries and to increase the competence of the unemployed. This will contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of industry, ensuring jobs, increasing the flexibility of the labour market and providing the basis for a faster and greater decline in interest rates. The Workers' Party wishes to change its economic policy. We want to balance the development between the shielded and competitive sectors. That's why our efforts are directly directed at the parts of the economy that are now exposed. We have for over a year had an interest rate that is above twice the interest rate in European countries and well above what we could have had if not the budget and wage settlement last year had cracked. In the last 12 months, a family of children with DKK 600 000 in debt has actually cost NOK 15 000 in increased interest after tax. Corresponding increases in expenditure have affected municipalities and enterprises. We still have, even after the last reduction in the Bank of Norway, a level of interest that is beyond twice the level of interest in the EU. The budget's tightening effect has declined from DKK 9 billion in the national budget that was submitted to NOK 3.7 billion, as it will be after the examination of the revised budget here today. Greater vigilance in fiscal policy of 5-6 months, we have hardly seen it! That means that interest rates won't go down as fast and as far as they could have done otherwise. The suspension indicates that the Government has chosen not to negotiate with any of the opposition parties in this budget audit. This has led to a budget deficit of DKK 1⁄2 billion. Governments and government parties have shown minimal willingness to reduce this burden of expenditure. It says a lot about how the government steers based on short-term considerations. Government agencies are used to govern from day to day, apparently without placing significant emphasis on long-term challenges. It can go well as long as the economic cycle is good, but what happens next time the oil price falls? The absence of industrial policy by the government and the lack of forward-looking efforts to ensure education and work are striking. Therefore, the policy pursued is not sustainable in the long term either. When the government presented the revised national budget, it was a satisfied finance minister who thought that the arrows pointed the right way. Yeah, that's right, we have the economic cycles on our side right now. The crown has strengthened, the oil price has risen, interest rates have fallen, and employment is high. But at the same time, the government in the revised budget describes that the generation accounts are no longer in balance and that oil dependence is increasing. Growth in the mainland economy is falling. The government does not attempt to reinvigorate economic policy. But this challenge must be dealt with by the Government when the first budget is to be drawn up in a new millennium. So far, the government has chosen to settle the annual budgets together with the Right Party and the Advance Party. It's given many negative distribution policies. I'll mention: Tax advantages for high pay are maintained, while trade unions as a group have a total tax amplifying of 370 million. The lowest salary has lost the right to sickness benefit. Private schools are given priority at the expense of public schools. There is a sudden stop in kindergarten development, and support for the school leisure system is cut. Children's major common arenas are being built up, and we still have a high level of interest rates, which hit children's families hardest. Now the government has announced a big deal on distribution policy. I find it difficult to see how the government parties will manage to adjust the rate of distribution policy by continuing to settle the budget with the Right and the Advance Party. I therefore challenge the government parties to change the course, to bet on education and work, which is the only way to do the welfare tasks. And I challenge the Government to pursue a different welfare policy, where communities can be safeguarded instead of being built down. And I think, and I hope, that the government parties see that without addressing the Labour Party in budgetary policy, they will not be able to create a better distribution in society. I take this up with me the proposals that the Labour Party has made, either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e766	Hill-Marta Solberg has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e771	For the Progress Party, it is important that industry and the population also have predictable framework conditions. One of the most important framework conditions is the framework for fiscal policy. It is important for the enterprises involved in trade that, in their purchases for resale, they can take into account that taxes and charges are fixed for at least one year at a time. Those taxes and charges should, in the opinion of the Progress Party, be fixed in the ordinary State budget procedure. I am aware that there may be special circumstances where it may be necessary to adjust charges in a revised national budget, as the Progress Party has also proposed this time, in order to ensure that Norwegian airlines retain their bases on Norwegian soil and prevent flagging out. But it must, as I said, be based on special circumstances. In the case of the Workers' Party's proposal for a strong increase in, inter alia: The car charges are obviously not the specific conditions under which they are applied. To the extent that such a relationship should exist, it had to be in order to reduce the fees, for example. against the background of lower car sales, not as the Workers' Party suggests, a sharp increase in car sales with even lower sales as a result. My question to Solberg is: does not the business community and the population also have a minimum predictability requirement? By doing so, I believe that the level of taxation and taxation is determined by the ordinary state budget treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e782	It is possible that the whole of the economic policy of the Progress Party represents predictability, but I must say that I have so far failed to see that this is the case when we look at the whole of what the Progress Party stands for in budgetary policy. But of course, everyone is concerned that the framework conditions should be predictable. So the representative Svendsen says that there is no need to adjust taxes unless there are special situations. What is the special situation in ours is that in a year we have lost 22,000 industrial jobs, and we know that there are significant lay-offs in the yard industry and in the petroleum sector. That is why the Workers' Party has found it absolutely necessary to prioritise a business package in our alternative revised budget. We are very pleased that most of it will be adopted today. It also means that as a responsible party, we are trying to create a containment for the costs we see it is necessary to propose this spring. We are proposing to reduce expenditure, but we are also proposing to raise some new revenue. The tax proposals made by the Workers' Party in the vote on the revision are not new. We're dealing with the proposals we had in our 1999 alternative budget. We're concerned with the framework conditions. The whole of our business package is about the framework conditions for our business – better framework conditions. If this can be enjoyed by the representative Svendsen, we are, in fact, proposing a fee-free exemption for investment in the power sector for two years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e791	In this setting, the Centre Party and the Working Party will be shown in some areas. It seems good to me, not least when it comes to measures for business, although the Labour Party itself says that they go much further, and to some extent I have to give them the right thing to do. But in one area, and it's about the petroleum sector, the Labour Party has gone very far, I thought. This applies to the CO2 tax reduction, where they ask the Government to return to the Storting with a plan to include the entire offshore sector in the quota system during the year 2000. My first question to Solberg's representative is: Does the Labour Party believe that this can be done without breaking the decisions relating to green taxes? Or is this a warning of a change of the Labour Party's environmental policy? How do you expect this to be implemented at the same time as a meeting of the Kyoto agreement, which I expect we will be able to meet? It's another area I want to point to. The working party – and I'm very surprised – is going in to reduce, mid-year, the propensity of the public schools and the private schools. This may be an illustration that the difference in priorities between the centre and the Labour Party is large in some areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e800	There is no doubt whatsoever that there is a very big difference between what the Labour Party stands for in school policy, and what the current government stands for. It is very well illustrated by the policy taken by the Bondevik government in relation to private schools. There has been a massive inflating of the budget for private schools after we got the Bondevik government. The working party is to ensure the public school and to ensure and secure the single school. We want an alternative school policy, a different school policy from that of the Bondevik government, and we also show that through our alternative budgets. It cannot be that when we are opposed to the policies of the Bondevik government and practice in private schools, we must at the same time be in support of appropriations for that. It says itself. We have a policy to strengthen public schools, and we must give priority to it. At the same time, we cannot give priority to what we are actually opposed to. So to the representative Lie's question about CO2 taxes. What this line emphasizes is the disagreement between the batches when we dealt with green tax, not least on the issue of quota system. The representative, Lie, confirms that the Government is still very contradictory in relation to what the majority of Storting wants, namely that the CO2 tax on the socket should be abolished in favour of a quota system. What we are proposing in the context of the revised national budget is in no way in conflict with what we have meant, and the majority has thought about quotas, nor is it in conflict with what the majority has thought about our commitments in relation to the Kyoto agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e814	In the vote on the revised national budget and here from the Chair today, the Labour Party expresses great concern about economic policy. The working party writes, among other things: in the setting of revised: ‘It is irresponsible for the Government to provide a revised budget with partly strong growth in budget expenditure and the oil-corrected deficit’. Of course, I fully agree with that. It is such a sore point for the Government that the Chairman of the Committee did not even try to answer the question from the representative Foss here instead of what it is in today's economic situation that would mean halving the cuts in relation to the State budget adopted last autumn, now revised. Against this background, I am therefore quite surprised at the proposals made by the Labour Party to amend the revised budget. Together, the Workers' Party proposes an improvement in the oil-corrected deficit of 400 million. kr. Of this, almost everything comes from increased taxes and taxes: 345 million. kr. The Workers' Party's proposals for expenditure growth are, in fact, the same as the Government's proposals. My question to the representative Hill-Marta Solberg is: When the Workers' Party believes that the Government's proposals for expenditure growth are so irresponsible, is it not irresponsible to propose the same expenditure growth itself?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e826	First of all, it is gratifying that, in this debate, the right party joins the Workers' Party's comments on concerns about the economic policy pursued, despite the fact that the Right is one of the parties in the Great Britain that has provided a majority of the policies that have also been pursued in the economic area in the current year and that it is also the same Right that has contributed to the adoption of a budget for 1999 where, in fact, a substantial shift in expenditure is taking place, which is why the Government must now include in the revised budget. What contributes to the growth of expenditure in the spring is that the budget you left before Christmas was not sustainable. And as I said in my post, we've almost never experienced such a glider from December to May as what we've seen in fiscal policy this year. That's because you push the problems. You didn't go into them, but you exposed the problems. Then the government has to deal with it in May and June, as we do now. It goes without saying that neither the parties on Stortinget can say no to expenses that have already been incurred. The underlying expenditure growth in the budget is completely impossible for the Storting to do dramatic things in the context of the revision when the assumptions for the budget of the year were not sustainable. And those assumptions have been added to the right. The right has been included in the budget agreement and pushed over expenditure, and has signed a written agreement that the expenditure should be taken into account in the revised budget. So the growth in expenditure that comes, right there, must also be set up and take co-responsibility for. Then I repeat what I said in my post, that the Workers' Party's alternative budget to the revision has a tightening effect of NOK 1.2 billion better than that of the Government. We believe that this would have been an important contribution to fiscal policy, rather than going the other way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e835	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e838	I've spent some time trying to raise myself up in front of this debate, but I haven't succeeded, because it's relatively little to argue about in this round. After all, the purpose of a budgetary audit is precisely to adjust the adopted national and state budget to changes in the financial framework conditions or to specific needs for changes in appropriations. This has been the case with the Progress Party, which in turn will mean that we can actually vote against some proposals that we would otherwise vote in ordinary budgetary procedure or promote ourselves. The basis for this is predictability — predictability also in relation to fiscal policy, so that it is possible to plan its activities to a reasonable degree one year at a time without having to wonder what the Storting may be doing after a few months. Our basis for convergence with the revised budget is the subsidiary budget agreement of the autumn. It was therefore very surprising and, not least, disappointing that the Government had achieved the task of presenting a revised budget which, on several points, was to be regarded as contrary to the budgetary agreement. It is essential for the political climate of cooperation that agreements that are concluded are held, and even if the Government does not care so much about it, it is at least positive to record that the centre parties have some ability to follow up on this. And it was just supposed to be missing. The representative, Jørgen Holte, from the Senterpartiet, said to the Newspaper yesterday that the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right must take the blame for what he called the 'budget discharge', even if the Centre should take responsibility. It sounds like this: it was you who killed him, but we're going to take responsibility for it. It is the responsibility of the government parties, and it is the duty of the government parties, to ensure that the budgetary procedure is conducted in the Stortinget, and it is the government parties themselves who have chosen to run slums, despite the fact that they have expressed a considerable degree of willingness to negotiate by the Stortinge. The consequence must then necessarily be varying in relation to different situations. But Hill-Marta Solberg has defined the 450 million. Dr, mentioned in the interview, as a significant impairment, in which case I will have a reasonable period of time. 450 million. kr in relation to a government budget of over 500 billion kroner – yes, then we're not talking about percentages, we're talking about pro-miles, and then it's probably good to see things a little bit in context. But the same warnings came from Hill-Marta Solberg and Thorbjørn Jagland in the fall. Both warned very strongly against the subsidiary budgetary agreement, and they drew up frightful scenarios in relation to the tightness of the budget. So far, none of the Workers' Party's forecasts have kept pace. In its entirety, the Norwegian economy is going very well, but what is worrying is that the government is not able to adapt fiscal policies to the actual reality. There is also reason for the establishment of a second majority for firefighting, among others. in industry-related activities. The government has recently boasted of the development of the Norwegian economy. In Holmgang on Tuesday, the government council elected Svarstad Haugland said that the most important thing in the concluded subsidiary budget agreement from this autumn was the tightness. But that's wrong. The main item in the budget was how fiscal policy was structured in relation to different parts of the economy, and significant changes were made by the Right and the Advance Party in order to be able to participate in the budgetary agreement. What is worrying is that long-term thinking and overall grip are getting less and less space for knifeing on small money. Sometimes one may feel committed to being a municipal politician when looking at the proposals made in this revised budgetary procedure, and that is probably also why this resolution has not created particularly large headlines or turbulence. So we have focused on responsible and balanced management of the revised national budget, and we have given priority to providing leadership towards the state budget for the year 2000. But in the light of the subsidiary budgetary settlement of the harvest, I would like to stress the importance of a couple of relationships, although this is not about the large amounts. The first concerns the situation of the police. In the fall it was a central theme, and we finally got pressured through additional appropriations for police operations. But ever since that budget was adopted, there has been disagreement between police organizations and the ministry as to how this money was to be spent. The Progress Party has pointed out on several occasions that there may be reason to believe that the Government has not used the funds to strengthen police resources, but has used them in bureaucracy and many other things that are not directly linked to police work. Therefore, I would like to ask State Council Restad to confirm that the increase of 20 million. kr which has now been agreed through the revised budget will be used for operation or remuneration of police officers and not for new creative measures in the bureaucracy. The fact that the government parties are nullifying the proposed cut to the defence, I don't even think it deserves a comment, because it should of course be based on the budget agreement. On the other hand, the impression should not be created is that hospitals have to close departments and reduce patient treatment due to a lack of funding. The whole purpose of the health care input-based funding is that it should be an activity-based allocation, and therefore it is gratifying that a large majority of the committee is now moving in to turn this into an estimate so that we do not have a drawdown on the appropriations in the future. But what the government has to do is to clear up the disunity that prevails between county councils and hospitals in terms of reimbursements. If the system is so complicated that no one understands how it works, you have to look at the system, and not argue for so long that it affects sick people. At least we have noticed that the Workers' Party is now satisfied with the impact of the input-based funding of the health care system, which in reality means an approach at a single price. But then it's strange that they're not willing to join the proposal to ask the government to investigate how to introduce a similar system of care for the elderly, which will mean a more equal offer to all older people, no matter where they live in Norway. The situation of the oil-related industry has been in focus, and despite the fact that the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right had three completely different suggestions on how to solve these problems, at least we agreed that we had to do something, because it would be relatively parochial if the result had become nothing, despite the fact that everyone would do something of the same. We have made that clear, and I think it gives much more important signals to the oil-related industry than the government itself provided in the revised national budget. But at the same time, we saw that the oil fund's guidelines were exposed to creative proposals from the Government. But all the proposals, with the exception of one, are rejected. And I have to say that I think it's amazing what the Government shows in playing bingo with this fortune. Because it is clear that the proposals put forward by the Government will help to reduce the yield on the petroleum fund's assets, and there is no merit. What is a little more surprising, on the other hand, is that there is no majority in favour of allowing the People's Security Fund to invest in foreign companies. I think that's a little weird. We have completely different guidelines for the management of the petroleum fund, but in the case of the Swedish Social Security Fund, yes, we are not going to have the same flexibility. And when we know that representatives appointed by the government parties sit on the board of the People's Security Fund and believe exactly what we do, it's strange that the government parties, and at the very least the government, are unable to follow this up. I have to say a little bit about rules for the deduction of own funds. There has been a theme in Stortinget in the last year, and the majority have been asking for some year since the government to soften the strange cross-ownership rules. It has also been partly done. But it may seem to me that the government has put a lot more emphasis on what one hearing body has said, namely the credit supervision, and has failed to stress it to all the others, including the Bank of Norway, that there is a need to soften these rules more. The majority emphasise once again that the Government should now consider a change to this legislation in order to harmonise as far as possible with the EU level. I therefore expect the government to be able to follow it up. So it's not that much to raise up in this round, nor any reason to draw out the debate very much. It's a curative situation, and it's a budget audit. But the harvest is another bowl. Then the government should be able to raise a budget that is more expansive. Then the government has been long enough to be able to design rich, rich and creative budgets and not just focus on managing the legacy of former regimes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e867	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e870	The representative Jensen began his speech by telling us all that in front of this debate she had made earnest efforts to get excited, but had not succeeded, and then she made a quite engaged contribution. It's not my job to relate to Jensen's degree of intriguement about the revised national budget, but I would like to say that the reason she gave for her not being excited, I don't think I'm holding. It is true that the revised national budget is a mere revision of an already adopted budget. But there is also an opportunity to state how it has gone with the budget that has been adopted, and there should be many things to raise. Because it is obvious that developments after the budget was adopted show that a budget was adopted, with large expenditures being pushed ahead, and unrealistic budgeting was carried out. It is quite serious that while it was thought that there was a need for a reduction of NOK 9 billion last autumn, and now forecasts that show greater speed in the Norwegian economy, it is believed, however, that it is justifiable to halve the contraction. We believe it shows that there was an unrealistic budget we adopted last autumn, and that is why we have proposed a tighter budget, but the Progress Party has thus voted in favour of the budget last autumn and is finding itself with the deterioration this spring. Then it turns out that there were errors in other areas as well. You step down the old man's bet. It turns out that it was wrong – now you have to find new money for it. There is one example of unrealistic and incorrect budgeting. You cut the sick pay to those who have the lowest income. Now you go back to it and admit that it was a mistake. This is probably an example of unrealistic and wrong budgeting. So it is said that we were not right in our predictions. Our main message last autumn was that we had a two-part development in the Norwegian economy at good speed in the total economy and major problems in the exposed workshop industry along the coast. We obviously got right there. It must be a problem for the Progress Party that they voted in favour of a budget that did not take account of it last autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e881	I don't know if I understood any specific questions in the line from Jens Stoltenberg, but for me there is at least a significant difference between being excited and being engaged. It is not the case that, while not now contributing to the creation of the major conflicts and crises through the management of the revised budget, there is no commitment to what is happening in the Norwegian economy. Because we all have, and it should just be missing! Yes, the revised budget should be a revision, and yes, we can also settle the status. In addition, we are going to address the areas where there has been some alarming or new developments that need to be addressed since the budget was adopted. And so have you. But it is not that the budget that was adopted in the autumn was as irresponsible as Jens Stoltenberg is trying to produce it as it is. The problem with Jens Stoltenberg is that all the gnawing that has come from the Workers' Party since the new government joined, has proved to be unstoppable. And it must be worrying for the Workers' Party to be in a situation where they just have to look and complain about what everyone else is doing, and note that the results of it are missing. We all agree that there are different parts of the economy that work differently, and that we have to put the measures where necessary. However, with regard to the unemployment forecasts of the Workers' Party, they have not yet come to the place where they were supposed to come from the Workers' Party. And in relation to the elderly, it's not right to start pushing this out. But there were many municipalities that felt the need to get a little more time and a little more flexibility in the implementation of the ageing plan. And that's just supposed to be missing. The goal must be to develop care facilities for older people. So it's not much to raise yourself up in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e890	The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Labour Party have found each other in parts of the environmental policy by putting together a strong reduction in CO2 taxes on Norwegian soil. This is a very interesting environmental policy constellation, for the CO2 tax on Norwegian soil is an important part of Norwegian climate policy. The levy is the sole environmental policy base and shall stimulate the oil companies to take action to reduce CO2 emissions. It is very likely that a reduction in this CO2 tax will lead to an increase in national CO2 emissions by weakening the incentives for emission reduction measures that we have. This will make it harder to meet the Kyoto commitments. However, if one is to meet these obligations, it is likely to result in greater emission reductions and increased use of instruments to other industries and to other sectors, which in turn may lead to economic consequences for these sectors. But this chance takes the Progress Party, the Working Party and the Right. I believe that the Progress Party in general has a strong faith in economic incentives to achieve desired development. Since the Progress Party wants to reduce or remove the CO2 charge on the socket, are my questions: Does not the Progress Party believe that economic incentives in environmental and climate policies can work, since they will remove this possibility of reducing emissions leading to cost reductions? Or is it that environmental issues are short and well-important for the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e897	There can be no shock to the representative Sørfonn that the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right find each other in major and important matters in this process. We've been doing that for years. But it is still not that the three parties agree on everything, at least not on environmental policy. At least the Progress Party has always said for its part that CO2 taxation is not an appropriate instrument in the field of environmental policy. We have programmed a desire for the polluter to pay, but then it must be possible to design the economic incentives, which Sørfonn talks about, in such a way that they function and not only appear as a purely fiscal income to the state. In Sweden, there are, among other things: in aviation, made more efforts to target environmental taxes so that they function so as to stimulate faster transition to more environmentally friendly aeroplanes using less fuel, etc. This has not been done here because you have a one-sided belief in measures that are general rather than targeted. The reason why the CO2 tax is a major dissatisfaction is that it does not work. That being said, it is actually even more important for the Progress Party to contribute to ensuring employment and value creation rather than becoming hysterical on environmental policy issues. The environment is important, yes, but we must not forget what is the basis for income and value creation also in Norway. In that case, we must actually set a course for nutrition and have instruments that do not absorb suffocation in industry and industry, but give positive incentives. So far, the current government has not at least contributed to changing the tax structure in such a way that it receives positive economic incentives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e906	In the budgetary position, the Progress Party states that the revision does not make any changes ‘unless there are clear grounds for making any necessary adjustments’. When I listened to the representative Jensen, it was really only on the point I was able to perceive a certain degree of commitment to what was being said. In view of the fact that the party promotes a number of both far-reaching proposals and unexplored proposals, this particular justification is inherent. At least it would be okay to consistently follow the same principle throughout the treatment. So what is the representative Jensen doing here today? During the night she proposes to remove the full CO2 charge on the base, exemption from VAT for airlines and extensive cuts within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget. However, how, on the basis of so-called ‘principal basis’ — one does only something with what seems to be important — the Progress Party can vote down the Right’s proposal to counter the increasing border trade by reducing the alcohol charge by 10 pst. and the tobacco fee of 3 pst. is completely incomprehensible to me. For the Progress Party, it is therefore important to change the VAT system, but the Right proposal of 150 million. kr in the increase in national road investment is not important enough – or 40 million. kr for racial protection, or a reduction in property taxes to strengthen Norwegian jobs and investments, or 20 million. SEK in grants to enterprises taking in apprentices. As if the Progress Party, as was done in the past, voted for what you were in favour of, and against what you were against – even though the Right was the author of the proposal!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e917	First of all, I would like to remind you that the budgetary reform that we are now in the middle of the trial period was the only party that voted against. The right was a driver for it, but we are the only party that has managed to follow up the decisions made by the majority of the population, namely that the budget review should be marginal and adjustable. It is possible that Børge Brende has found much interesting in the alternative revised Progress Party, but I made a small count below the line from Børge Brende. On the right-hand side of this round, there are at the lower end of 100 number proposals, of which 1 million are individual changes. kr. Then one can quickly believe that one is not in the nation’s national assembly, but in a medium - sized municipality in Westfold. That's not what this national parliament should care about, but it does. We propose to remove the CO2 tax, but that is not something you need to figure out to get it done. Many people have given strong signals that this is actually necessary. The right also proposes a reduction in the CO2 tax. We also ask the Government to make a statement on the border trade in relation to the budget for the autumn. But if Børge Burnde believes that 3 pst. Cut in the tobacco tax helps to limit border trade, I think that might be the basis for doing a small calculation, because I am not sure that is a strong enough incentive to stop travelling to Sweden to buy smoke. In our alternative budgets, we have proposed significant improvements in tax policy in a number of areas every harvest. So this is part of the budget procedure for the autumn and not here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e926	The President will ask the representative Jensen if she intends to make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e929	She has forgotten that, but she mentions all the proposals that the Progress Party either promotes alone or together with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e934	The representative Jensen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e939	To the last change of line, I would just like to say that it is not the case that budgetary reform is forcing parties in the Grand Duchy to vote against proposals that you are in favour of when revising the budget. Nor is it the case that budgetary reform limits the number of proposals that can be promoted. Nor is it the case that budgetary reform limits it to a million. This proves the Progress Party itself, and it is also voting in favour of proposals that are less than DKK 1 million. But to be a little spooky, you get to say it so that I hope that the representative Siv Jensen and the Progress Party are more excited when we come to the harvest, so that they vote for what they are for. That would be a progress, because then there will be more of us. I asked in a previous line the chairman of the Finance Committee why this time they chose to go out of hand. He invited himself to negotiate, but that invitation we never saw anything more. My contribution to explanation is that the government actually this time prioritised the so-called block independence, that is, not having any friends, rather than getting a budget responsible through in the Storting. Now it can be said that DKK 1⁄2 billion in exceedances is not dramatic, but on top of the lack of rigour in the government's own arrangement, this becomes alarming. A government that, in the autumn, strongly stresses the need for a tight budget, misses when the economy actually requires both to keep tight, and even to strengthen it. I record that so far no representative of the government parties has provided any justification on the part of the economic facts presented by the government, which presupposes the budget that is now being adopted. In other words, the explanation has to be on a different level, and the explanation is well at the level of prioritising internal consensus in the coalition and block independence and, in reality, sacrificed consideration to the economy. There will be peace in the Bondevik government, and the price for this is that those who have the least to pay with will pay the most in terms of a higher interest rate than they would otherwise get. One week before the government submits its message about Poor Norway, or Difference Norway as it is called, it is worth staying a little bit by this. The government has largely given up governing through fiscal policy. So what's the market going to give? Yes, higher interest rates. This is the most unfair distribution policy one can actually imagine, because it means that it is those who happen to be established at a time when they have high costs in connection with their student loans and mortgages, which get in the way of this. But I look forward with excitement to the Government's disparity message, and it will explain why it is right to do so. That's the opposite that happens. I look forward to the Government’s defence for why justice policy has now become a way of punishing, among other things. children’s families and those with high study debts. No such justification has been given in the document we are currently examining, but we are looking with boldness – well, it is called – up to the Government's explanations, which are coming. In fact, since last year the government has halved the tightness and doubled the oil-corrected deficit, yes, more than that – from 5.5 billion kroner to 11.3 billion kroner. In the long term, it may be more serious that the Government also gives up the more valuable and moral grounds for fiscal policy, also called the generation accounts. Verbal indicates to the Government that this is important. Last year's government budget said that there was a close balance in relation to the ratio to the generation accounts. Now it is said in the revision of the state budget that it should be NOK 10 billion – DKK 25 billion better to avoid overturning the burden on future generations. So you're significantly exacerbating your generation accounts. In any case, the generation accounts should show a clear profit now that we are close to a cyclical peak. It is not sustainable to be close to balance or to have deficits in good times and to have even greater deficits in low economic conditions. This is the greatest weakness of the government's economic thinking and its practice. It shifts the burden to new generations in times when you should actually set aside reserves in order to be better equipped for new times. The government also gives some warnings about next year's budget and points to running a neutral budget, as it says. It can be done in different ways. I would strongly warn against the path that government parties now seem to have chosen, namely that expenditure growth will be increased several times more strongly than the growth of the entire economy. If it is to be driven neutrally, it must be done by giving tax relief and not by increasing the growth of expenditure. On the right, when examining next year's financial arrangements, very much attention will be paid to the need to provide real tax reliefs, not least for those with lower and medium incomes. The interest rate has not been as low as Restad promised. Then these families have to be compensated for the bill they have received by doing something about the tax on the middle and lower incomes. For families, there is a gap between NOK 10 000 and NOK 20 000 so far in additional expenditure as a result of the lack of fiscal governance by the Bondevik government and the interest bill that has followed it. Work on a marked improvement in the business environment now also needs to be started. It is not just useful to investigate and wait, while the market is trading and other countries are laying new framework conditions. It is necessary to give a clear indication that special-purpose taxes, such as the investment tax and the property tax, are to be abolished. It will take time, but it has to start, and you have to start putting the rates down, increasing the deductions, as early as next year. Such a signal can only be given in a credible way if it is also done in practice, not just talking about it. In relation to the petroleum sector, something more concrete must be done than what has been notified so far from the Government. If the Government does not propose anything for itself, the majority of the population – the majority of the Right, the Advance Party and the Labour Party – in fact, the majority that was a reason for this government to be formed, interestingly – will have to take concrete decisions with increasing patience. We cannot live with a petroleum sector where the framework conditions are completely out of line with what is on other bases. With regard to the areas of activity in the next year's budget, I have to say that there is a great reason to stress the internal debate that has now taken place in the government parties on the lack of road activity. Here the government parties have failed – failed themselves, their voters and their promises. In line with the Right proposal, the road bet should be at least NOK 1 billion higher. That will be a very, very high priority requirement for next year's budget. Through this little treatment, through revised, the Right has the power to create a majority for some increased commitment to education. We'll be back stronger next year. If there is something the government should be investing in beyond the framework conditions to strengthen future growth requirements, in order to strengthen the transition opportunities in business, it is precisely education. We propose in this budget – not large amounts, but after a revision – to invest more in universities and colleges. There we get a majority for the most part, happy enough, together with the Workers' Party. I am surprised that we are not being followed, either by the government parties or by the Workers' Party, in relation to one of the strong demands of the trade union movement, namely to meet the failure of vocational training by putting more emphasis on the apprentice's grant and/or exempting the companies from the employer's fee. I thought that was a requirement that the Workers' Party was responsive to – I have completely given up the government parties in this context, but we will see at the next crossroads whether we can get support for this. We also point out this time that the educational effort must involve a stronger commitment to the teacher. It's the differences in teachers, it's the teacher's competence, which is actually the biggest problem in Norwegian schoolwork. This is why continuing training is very important in this area as well. We have been given the means to correct – and this should be lacking – the alarming cut in the defence appropriations provided by the Government. We've got something fixed on the police budget, and the business measures together have become something better than the government's arrangement, but far from what we wanted. Let me finally deal with the suggestions that the Right has made in the setting, alone or together with other parties where we are the largest fraction.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e972	Per-Kristian Foss has then taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e977	The representative Foss often has a very high cigarette lead and is a little high and dark in front of the budget negotiations. Requirements are promoted vis-à-vis the central parties and the budgetary agreements are referred to in the right. The right gets a little more money for the defense and the police and is very satisfied, and the government settles flat. Looking at what the Right opinion is most correct for the Norwegian economy, it is completely contrary to what the Government is doing. Right on page 67 of the setting: «The inability of the government to recover increased expenditure has led to a significant deterioration in the budget compared to the budget agreed on last harvest.» Yes, that's absolutely right, it's a solid slippery government exhibits in fiscal policy, but it's with the Right's blessing. It is also with the blessing of the Right that this government is near to everlasting life. For it cannot be that the Right does not take responsibility for the overall economic policy and therefore also the subsidiary position that has led to the shift in fiscal policy. It must be in the interests of the representative Foss" and the Right to increase the credibility of the Right in economic matters and to bring about a more forward-looking policy. What does he want to do to get it to?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e989	I didn't know I was tall and dark, but it sounds great, that, so I'll take it to myself! What he wants to do with the seemingly eternal life of the central government - I don't know what perspective the Labour Party has on eternity, but at least it seems that impatience after returning to the government position is greater than realism in the consideration of eternity, to say it like that. I have to say that I think the Workers' Party here should, in order to use the representative Brørby's own expression, dampen the cigaretteing a little, because here there is a huge distance between the rhetoric of the Workers' Party and what they are actually doing. Before the budget they said, the refugee reception must be covered in heads for heads, as we did. – No, that’s not what the Workers’ Party is doing in its alternative budget, they have forgotten that. They come in violent criticism of the Government's increasing growth rate on the expenditure side, but then they lie down at the same rate of growth themselves. Here's something that's not right, really. In fact, I think what's the case is that the Workers' Party had ambitions to do more than what they've done in opposition. It's not that because if you're in opposition and you don't have an agreement with the Government, you can't do what you want. Well, the Labour Party could provide an alternative budget with lower growth in public expenditure, but it has not. They're not bound by any agreement, so they're really free to do it. Right, the Labour Party doesn't. And the Labour Party, like the trade union movement, should be very happy that neither their own proposals for tax increases in the 1999 budget nor that of the Government were adopted – thanks to us. The trade union movement can thank us for getting a setup that made it possible with a very moderate settlement this year. If they had followed the arrangements of the Government or the Workers' Party, they would not have had the good starting point for a reduction in expenditure growth, and thus a longer-term contribution to a reduction in inflation rates.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e998	The right and the right have some common proposals and quite a few common comments in this revised budget. Many of the Right's proposals, and especially those on cuttings in different sectors, would have been natural for the Progress Party to support. It is in line with our policy. I recorded that Per-Kristian Foss said that there is nothing in the budgetary reform that suggests that one should not be able to act quite freely in the revised national budget. I then record that the Right Party and the Advance Party have a quite different view of this. I really just want to ask Foss whether he cannot agree that the Right has gone a bit far in relation to the fact that this is a revision, or whether the Right shares the views expressed by the representative Hill-Marta Solberg in his statement, that major changes are fine as long as they are in line with the Party's alternative budget, that is, the budget for the year, that this round here should be an arena for rematching in areas where there was no majority in the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1007	It is not that when revised, the amount of an alternative budget will be the same as when treated in the autumn. There's always been a difference between that and that and now. But for one reason or another, the Progress Party has found that when considering a revised budget, in the case of mainland Norway, it should limit it, but can do things unhindered on the continental shelf. Those who propose the very largest single measure in this alternative budget are, of course, the Progress Party, by removing overnight, mid-year, the entire CO2 tax. I sympathise with the direction of that proposal, but all in all. The paradox is that the Progress Party goes to the pulpit and warns everyone against doing too much, and at the same time they do the most, but only on the continental shelf. It is not that the budgetary reform covers only mainland Norway, it covers the entire budget. So this is an inventive thing -- I don't know why the Progress Party has come up with what I've been looking at for a long time. They are now voting against a lot of things they are in favour of, on the grounds that the budgetary reform, or something like that, should provide it. There's no cover for it. I think – apologies for the expression – the Progress Party has got a little bad time in the group to agree, and then a quick quick solution has been taken and said that we are limiting ourselves. I have the impression, because there is no enthusiasm, for example. The Progress Party is now in favour of reducing taxes which may be a contribution to curbing border trade, or that the Progress Party is now voting for the first time to reduce taxes on wealth, for example. That's a pretty funny result, and it's, like, nothing that tells the Progress Party to do it, but they do it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1014	It was entertaining to read the comments from the Right this time. Many go better in the Norwegian economy — yes, it goes very well, with increasing national wealth and with falling interest rates, and unemployment does not exist at all, and it admits, at least in writing. But the era for that will be right alone. Well, well, we might realize that they're longing for government offices, because it's easy from where old Norway is actually still being run. The representative Per-Kristian Foss seems worried when he's standing here talking. And to Today's Business he said he doubted that the interest rate, with the present revised national budget, could go down – and the few hours before the interest rate was actually set down. So error can take a bite. Of course, the central party's arrangement is that one should keep the budgetary balance and prepare several interest rates. Although, of course, there are temptations to participate in some of the Right's spending increases for good purposes, the invasion is partly unrealistic and partly unsuccessful. Doesn't Right's fiscal spokesman feel a little less well by cutting over 500 million. kr at a time when e.g. the need for safe and clean food production is greater than before? And isn't Right concerned about cutting down on the system that is invaluable so that small businesses and entrepreneurs, as there are so many of them in District Norway, can come up and go? Right, you have to be aware that in the information society that's at your doorstep, we just need big-scale innovation. And finally: does not even the representative Per-Kristian Foss get a dull taste in his mouth when one to balance the budget takes over $ 1⁄2 billion from those who have nothing in the third world?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1025	No, I'm not ashamed to cut a quarter of a billion kroner on the u-help budget. I believe that this would be a major contribution to the success of some countries in Eastern Europe, which Norway has been dwindling with unhelp for years. I registered that the Minister of Aid, in his statement in Stortinget, concentrated on combating corruption. It is a crossroads of thought, for Norway is ‘great’ in aid to the topmost countries of corruption. I think a lot could have been done differently in Norwegian aid policy. Cutting $1 billion out of 11 billion is a contribution to healthier u-help, nothing else. In fact, I believe that the representatives of Apelthun Sæles agree with us, at least in the West. I heard no quotes from what I should have said. I get that. I did not recognize myself in any description. I have never said that interest could not go down with this revised budget. What I have said, on the other hand, and as I stand by, is that with this revised budget, with a weakening of the mitigation effect, and as extensive as the downgrading process has become, it will take longer before interest rates fall. I doubt that the Minister of Finance can keep his promise to bring interest down. But if other representatives of the government parties now want to assure me that I am wrong, I am very open to it. So that national wealth would be good -- I don't know exactly where to read about that term in our comments -- it would just be missing, as long as we bottle as much oil as we do and put the gain into a fund. It should only be lacking that Norway does not have a reasonably good national wealth compared to other countries. So that's probably not a big point. The representative Apelthun Seele said that the government parties are also concerned that the balance sheet must be kept. I understand that, but the problem is that they constantly define the balance differently. The question is, what balance? We are concerned about the balance that was actually agreed on last year and have presented a revised budget that keeps it. It would have been a step forward, even for the decline in interest rates, if the government parties had supported us in it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1038	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1041	The proposal for a revised national budget, as led by the Government, is minor adjustments on additional and minor consumption in some budget chapters. The revised national budget shall also provide the Storting with a communication on the main features of economic development. The government's proposal for a net increase of around DKK 1.7 billion corresponds to the expenditure we had made at that time in relation to the crisis in Kosovo. With these changes, the budget has been revised in line with the Government's objective of curbing the growth rate in the Norwegian economy. The centre game has ended on such a line through the financial settings window in the autumn of 1998. Through the management of the Storting, net expenditure is increasing by around 450 million. kr, so that the oil fund bears a corresponding additional consumption. In spite of this increase in expenditure, the total budget balance for 1999 is up to an acceptable level, with a reduction for 1999 of 1⁄2 p.m., as the Government provided. This arrangement we hope to provide lower cost growth and reduced interest rates in the current year. Both of these things, we see clear signs of what's going to happen. Despite a tight financial budget for 1999, we have the power to continue the important social reforms within cancer, psychiatry and the hospital equipment plan. The central party is pleased that the government is following the plans that are now leading from the municipalities for increased activity for the construction of nursing homes and sick homes. For the Centre Party, it is a goal that labour at the disposal is given access to work. Despite the fact that some industries have had a decline in jobs, it is gratifying that there are about 4 000 fewer unemployed in May 1999 than in 1998. I am pleased that the Government is planning for stable employment. The targeted economic policy has so far given an interest rate decrease of 2 pst. to date this year. The clearance of the revised budget should allow for a further fall in interest rates in 1999. This will affect and be able to present plans for new investments that are settled, pending a more moderate level of costs. However, there are signs that some industries, especially in the yard industry and oil-related industries, have less activity this year compared to previous years. This requires selective action, in addition to credible fiscal policies. In addition to the measures announced by the Government in the oil notification, the gradual phasing-out of production fees and proposals amounting to 100 million. to project-right environmental funds, it is important that the Government pursues further cooperation with the supplier industry, the operators and the relevant employee organisations with a view to preventing the loss of competence, and that field-specific actions to promote planned projects are prioritised. In addition, support has been provided in the Stortinget for the forced construction of a new research vessel, «G. O. Sars», and two new high-speed carriers. We are also pleased with the plurality created by the Centre Party's support for the Workers' Party's proposals for the conversion of two inland waterway vessels, the reinforcement of the coastguard ship 'Svalbard' and the extension of the state guarantee framework for the conversion/construction of new ferries. For the Centre Party, it is important to facilitate a positive development in the districts, thus preventing deportation and brake pressure problems. Measures such as: are alerted through the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, helping to support those who will become new job creators in the districts as well. Through the cultural budget, the main proposals will increase well-being in both the countryside and the city. It's important that the public set up, as the government does through e.g. the licenses for the thousand year mark. There is a positive stamp on the volunteer work being done, which will be passed on in relation to this selection. For good development in the districts, a good community economy is decisive. It has always been central to the Centre Party to ensure that the public service provision in the municipalities is good. The municipal sector received a legal lift in 1996. From this level, our ambition is to give the municipalities a growth that is proportional to the tasks expected of the municipalities. I note that this was followed up by the 1999 Government and announced in 2000. Economic developments so far this year indicate that the government’s financial policy line has strengthened confidence in the Norwegian economy. A strengthened crown in relation to European currencies and an interest rate drop of 2 percentage points is a warning that the Government has confidence in economic policy as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1073	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1076	I noticed that when the representative Holte gradually entered the municipal economy, he referred to 1996. But in 1997, in the election campaign that left the foundation for us to be here, both the representative Jørgen Holte and other representatives of the Central Party were out and promised – at least as late as September 7th, it was confirmed by the party leader, Enger Lahnstein – that the Center Party would strengthen the municipal economy by DKK 3.5 billion compared to what had been included in the municipal economic proposition that was discussed in 1997. So it's no use for Holte to come back with older numbers than that. 3.5 billion were to strengthen the municipal economy, but when we get a report from the municipalities, it turns out that for 1998 the deficit in municipalities was greater than ever in the 1990s. The current municipal minister said he would have a credibility problem if there was no reduction in the designation, so that the municipalities got a little more freedom of action. And the designation won't be reduced, it's the first time that no earmarked grant is transferred to the framework. The reality for those engaged in municipal policy and creating well-being in their everyday lives in Norway is that the municipalities are in a worse position after the party that was to strengthen the municipal economy took over the Ministry of Local Affairs. Then I have to ask the representative Holte: is he really satisfied with the development of the municipal sector, or does he see that it would be possible to get a better community arrangement if you had chosen partners other than the Right and the Advance Party, to which they have been linked so far?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1084	I understand that the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, didn't think it was so interesting to talk about what happened in 1996, because even then, like today, the Center Party was trusting for the municipalities. I think it's a fairly accurate observation that is being targeted by the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, that the Center Party is known for wanting municipalities to have an economy that enables them to provide citizens with a good service. At that point, we're a pastor, it's easy to know that. For this reason, there is a lot of time in Stortinget to accept speakers from the Centre Party as well as from the Labour Party and from other parties, in order to discuss the important role of municipalities, both in terms of district policy and in terms of providing citizens with decent services. Andersen asks if it is so to understand that we look at other cooperative constellations in order to get support for such a view of supporting the municipalities. Two days ago, here in Stortinget, we had a debate on the municipal economy for 2000. In fact, there was full support, including from the Workers' Party, about Regeringa's municipal economy in 2000. There were no other proposals, nor from the Workers' Party, which indicated that what the Government had put in place was dissatisfying for the municipalities. For us, it's important to be aware of this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1098	The Progress Party is pleased that, after several meetings between the government parties, the Right Party and the Advance Party, the Central Party gradually seemed to be fulfilling the agreement between these parties in connection with the State budget, in terms of more money both for strengthening the police, for defence and for hospitals. But I think it's amazing that the Progress Party, along with the Right, has to come up with threats so that the Center Party, which likes to call itself a district party, will meet the budget agreement and thus ensure patient treatment in the county hospitals. In my view, it is quite fundamental that if the parties to the agreement are to have a good relationship between them, this must be based on the fact that the parties have confidence in each other. Does the Central Party agree that when the Government, where the Central Party has the Minister of Finance, provides a budget that does not comply with the agreements concluded, that counterparty does not invite to conclude new agreements? And can any contracting parties in the future expect the central party in government to comply with agreements without this happening after threats and subsequent negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1105	We are well pleased with the parties in Stortinget who are interested in being able to influence, whether we are talking about the budget or other issues that the Government is promoting for the Stortinget. In this way, the Progress Party, in relation to the budget, has set up with subsidized aid, in agreement. It's also the center party's view that the agreements that we're concluding, we're going to hold. That is why, in the context of the revised national budget, we do not propose a tax increase or a tax relief, with the exception of the investment tax proposal that is in place when it relates to the base functions of domestic airlines. But we have, unlike the ones we've agreed with, stood by the fact that there should be no tax and tax reduction, nor tax and tax increases, in spite of the fact that these parties in the alternative budgets, e.g. has significant changes in such areas. When it comes to patient treatment and input-driven funding, I refer to the Romantic decision that we are going to go into, that we are going to turn this into a layer-lodging. With regard to the cost of this type of patient treatment, we are aware that there are discussions between the department and the county council. Of course, we trust that the department is able to clarify what might be unclear at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1116	It was interesting to hear from Mr. Holte’s comments that he has spent a lot of time talking to the rapporteurs who have been visiting – it would have been nice to be flying on the wall during some of those conversations. I guess those who have heard the same thing as we hear, the same thing that actually also stands in the municipal economics proposition, that the economy in the municipalities is now the worst in the whole of the 1990s. It is interesting to note that it was Prime Minister Bondevik himself who, in a debate a few days ago, had to draw up the 1996 budget agreement to show that there was money in the municipalities. Since 1996, therefore, the Stortinget has had three municipal economic proposals for treatment, and the economy of the municipalities has steadily worsened. I understand that it's a sore point for the Center Party, because the Center Party is known for – at least they've pretended so far – being a party occupied by community consumption in the municipalities, district betting, etc. But now we see how it's been when you've chosen the conciliators you have. The centre party cannot deny the responsibility of being in government and actually managing a common consumption that is now becoming lower, and managing smaller-money municipalities, leading to greater self-payment and to the fact that the municipalities – to a greater extent than before – are unable to solve the tasks they are assigned to them. It's clear that it hurts the Center Party – I don't have a moment to see that – but the party has to take responsibility for the choices they make. And if you choose to go to bed with parties saying that cuts in common consumption are the most important thing, you have to stand up and say it – don't come here in the Storting and pretend that the municipalities get better conditions next year, or this year, for that matter, than they've had before. Everyone knows that is not the reality. The reason why there is growth in the local economy is that the earmarked grants for elderly people, psychiatry and health — which represent a total increase — have increased. But it requires increased self-financing of the free income of municipalities, which means that municipalities have less money left, especially for children and young people. It is deeply regrettable that that is the situation. Let me then challenge Holte in the end: there is an alternative majority here in the Stortingen for a policy that will lead to more money for the common consumption. To support this is the only solution Holte has on its dilemma.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1127	I am pleased to note that Øystein Djupedal looks at the Center Party and sees that it is the party with which many spokesmen – perhaps also SV's spokesmen, to the extent that it should be someone – come to the Stortinget and talk. As I said in the introduction, it is important for the Center Party to be known that we have been running for many, many years, and still do so, in order to take care of the Community tasks we know we are facing in the municipalities. That's also why we're able to have more than one thought in our head when it comes to the 1999 financial arrangement. It was important that it be tight, with the goal that interest rates should go down. So we're probably dividing teams by SV, but we're getting paid for this kind of behavior, because interest has now dropped by 2 percent points. 1 percentage point decrease in interest rates means about 600 million for the municipal sector. kr. To pursue an economic policy that has the effect that a large part of the economy is relinquishing its 30 million mark. kr more on most posts, yes, it is responsible. And we don't neglect that responsibility. Therefore, the revised national budget is a continuation of what we made up. The scheme of the government, which received subsidiary aid in the municipal sector, was, with the subsidiary support of the Stortinget, not reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1136	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1139	If Jørgen Holte had read through the setting of the revised budget we are examining, he will see that SV's proposal is 1 billion kr tighter than the government gets a majority. In the last year's budget, we had a proposal for a halve: we tightened up NOK 4.5 billion, as opposed to NOK 9 billion, which is supposed to be entirely gratifying. Now it wasn't $9 billion, it was a smaller contraction. In the course of, and through, the revised budget, the level of convergence recommended by SV has now been reached – i.e. half of the 9 billion that initially seemed to be so rewarding to the Norwegian economy. It is SV satisfied that unemployment has not increased as much as could be feared, and it shows that one-sided restrictions on public consumption are not necessarily the only salutative. The main reason why the Norwegian economy is now going better, and that the confidence in the Norwegian economy is stronger than it has been, is that the oil price is 6-7 dollars higher per year. barrel than it was last autumn. We're very pleased that interest rates are going down, but it's probably mainly the oil price that's going to take credit for it going down, and not the policy that's led here in the house. It should be a lesson for the Stortinget that unilateral cuts in common consumption are not what establish confidence in the Norwegian economy. Economy is much more complex than any later to believe. The lesson from that winter and the spring we have behind us is, unfortunately, that we are far more oil dependent than we like to admit. Therefore, it is very unlikely that individual parties wish to cut public consumption and lower public expenditure from an ideological point of view and irrespective of the economic situation. It's a one-eyed and blue-eyed policy. In the case of SV, the revised national budget has been important to demonstrate that there is financial freedom and trade in order to give priority to what is most important within the financial framework indicated by SV last autumn and which has now become the financial framework to be adopted by Stortinget. So there's room to bet on children and young people. There's room to balance economic differences between people. There's room to bet on the environment. And not least: there is room for action to be taken to prevent unemployment from rising through winter. In its alternative budget, SV wants to protect public consumption, unlike the others, who want to cut public consumption. Our priorities are firm. The most important thing is, as I said, the growing-up conditions of children and young people, and in particular the school. It is a pleasure to hear that even more parties than SV and to some extent the right, who have been occupied by the school for many years, are now occupied by the school. It's happy about the election campaign, because education and the growing-up conditions of children are one of the most important things we're going to be concerned with. SV wants a new reform for high school. That's the kind of school that's been in the shadow of the other major school reforms. There must be both a content reform in order to create a little more creativity and schooly, but there must also be a reform that costs money. We discussed IT fornebu earlier today. It would be a good idea if we took part from IT Fornebu and spread to all the country's classrooms. Only in this way can the school meet the challenges we face. In particular, young people have noted the consequences of the four budgetary agreements concluded between the central government and the two civil parties. Babysitting has stopped, and parental payments have partly increased dramatically. The school leisure system has also become much more expensive, youth measures have been reduced, and the worst thing is that the general economy of municipalities is weaker than ever in the 1990s. This is a development that needs to be reversed. SV once again indicates that it is possible. It would have been nice about the government council that has promised the most here in Stortinget, i.e., Mr. Lilletun, now could begin to fulfill some of his promises. For SV, it is also important to balance economic differences. It's going to be exciting to see what's coming in the advertised paper next week. But SV also shows how different distribution handles can make it easier for those sitting at the bottom of the table and for those sitting at the top of the table to contribute more. The main single reason why differences in Norway are increasing is that there is still a great deal of unfairness in our tax system, namely that dividends are tax-free. 10 pst. by the richest in Norway, with a total of 90 pst. of all dividends on shares, and only approximately. 30 billion kroner. I see that the time is running out. That is why I am addressing SV's suggestion, which is referred to in the setting. In addition to the two areas I have now referred to, the fight for the environment and the preparedness for unemployment will also be the highest on the agenda, both in the revised budget and in the future budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1171	Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1176	It's interesting to hear Øystein Djupedal from SV talk about economic policy. I listened particularly well today, because there were eye-catching signals from the representative of Djupedal in this newspaper today. SV is well-known for never saying no to anything, and now they do not say no to the cash support either. For a long time they said well, now they say yes. Now Djupedal made a longer post here and talked about rooms to bet on children and youth, and that SV shows the way, etc. But he began by saying that it was important to have control over economic development and to be able to see it in relation to public expenditure, that the Storting must take lessons and that one must have credibility, etc. But what about the credibility of the SV when they are now totally changing their child and youth policies? Does this mean that, until the harvest, SV will maintain the nursery bet and will be responsible for what the Workers' Party has done, that they will maintain the SFO scheme and parental pay, that they will give priority to the protection of children and young people, school books, leisure, etc.? Should you also lead an Ole Brumm policy here and say yes to everything, whether it's cash support, parental payment or whatever it might be, just pee on and say yes? What, then, is the total UK policy in this area when they now also say yes to the cash support?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1185	I think this in Stortinget says that you're happy to get a line. I thank Tore Nordtun for the line. The situation is that by means of four budgetary settlements, the central government has now gone to the right. Norway has applied more right-wing policies, more cut in common consumption than the voters have wanted. SV is against the cash support, if anyone is in doubt about it. Unfortunately, we note that there is an agreement between the Government and the civil parties that means that the cash support is supposed to last for the entire large-scale period. The voters have to help us get rid of the cash support in 2001 because the cash support is a pointless use of public money. And not only that, it's an unfair reform. But I cannot say that we are going to be here for two more years and have the Right Party and the Advance Party subscribe to a policy that is going in the wrong direction. That means that I want and am willing to keep my nose shut and say yes, they get the cash if we get important measures on children and young people, and all the good measures that Nordtun mentioned – measures that reduce the differences between people, of which the Workers' Party and SV agree with the heart. I fear that we will sit for two more years, SV and the Workers' Party, which have a policy to meet the future for both children and young people, to reduce differences, and also a policy that addresses the major challenges facing our country. I fear that the cash support will stand in the way of that. I think that the heart of the center in many ways wants cooperation on the left, because it's not possible to realize, for example. the fight against differences - the message will come next week - or parts of the Adultåsen document if you do not turn left. The centre of gravity of Norwegian policy should lie from the left to the centre, as it is now located from the left to the centre of many European countries. I want to challenge Tore Nordtun. We are equally opposed to the cash support both. Maybe we'll keep up with both of them and see if we can chisel out a policy that takes into account the efforts of children and young people and the struggle for differences in a different way from what we've done in the first two years of this growing-up period.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1201	SV has been very concerned that the contraction of the government and the bulk of the population is about to fade away, and that the government is reducing the overall profit by increasing the oil-corrected deficit from 5.5 billion to 11 billion kroner. That's the same thing that SV suggested in the fall, says the representative Djupedal. He goes on to say that the weakening of the tightening has not led to lower crown prices and higher interest rates, so SV clearly believes that fiscal policy contributes very little to influencing the price and interest rate. The representative, Djupedal, can't see that it doesn't matter if you tighten up by 5-6 billion, or if you don't. SV is at all satisfied with the fact that fiscal policies are not so tight, even if they require interest rates to be lowered. In the statement, SV shows that the strong economic upturn in recent years has created an economic basis for social reforms, but that there is no political will either in the Government or in the majority of the population to exploit them. SV clearly believes that there is now economic space for social reforms. He doesn't say which, but I might expect, since unemployment is the highest priority, that there are reforms like 6 hours of normal working day, contractual retirement from 60 years, implementation of a sabbatical year and not the opportunity to have more jobs when you have a full-time job, which is going up, along with free kindergartens and a strong reduction in the number of students in the classes. Then I have to ask: can the representative of Djupedal say something about the consequences of these reforms for the country's economy? How will they affect next year's wage and salary requirements, what consequences will they have for pensions in the future, for popular security, if they are implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1214	In the last year's revised budget, SV proposed to tighten up more than what was the majority for here in Stortinget. We were afraid that through winter it was going to be an interest rate increase, and we were also afraid that unemployment was going to increase. In this way, we wanted to hold back on fiscal policy. But it is true that we wanted to protect public consumption and take part of the tightening of private consumption. So in the ordinary state budget, we tightened up half of what the majority wanted, we tightened in 4.5 billion. The reason for that is that we thought it was important to keep the activity up, but also here we chose another device. We do not believe that it is right to protect the private consumption, as the Right does, we want parts of the tightening to be taken into account in the private consumption. Then ask the representative what reforms are going on. We have solid state finances. It is not a country in Europe that has as well-solid government finances as we do. The harvest and winter have shown us, unfortunately, that we have become very oil dependent. It is the oil price to a very large extent that determines the trust in the Norwegian economy. That means that the reforms we have, among other things. Here suggests, goes on how to make ourselves less oil addicts. That's what's one of the major fiscal challenges to give us freedom of action, and that's where we're trying to guide. Otherwise, it is not all the reforms that Mrs Nakkim is addressing, which we are dealing with in the revised budget. There are two major reforms we are now engaged in, and we hope that at least the Right can give us support on the one. One is that we need to have a secondary school reform that is both a content reform and a reform that will cost money, because that school battle has come in the shadows. Youth school reform is absolutely necessary. SV is going to spend a lot of time on it in the future, also in the election campaign and in the next big time, and we challenge the Right to be with us and to create a better, creative, exciting and exciting high school, something other than the tired high school that we unfortunately have today. The second is that we want action against Difference Norway. We want to spend money on redistribution – from those who have the most, to those who have the least.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1223	In the context of the review of the revised budget, there has been a debate on the framework conditions for the petroleum industry. In this respect, SV has criticised the Government for allegedly doing little to meet the need for rapid action in the industry. SV itself indicates that the batch presents a package of measures. Those studying this package will be able to conclude that it does not contain any single point directed towards the petroleum industry. It is not a single point that takes account of the need for rapid action for this industry. There are proposals for 400 new student homes, 3,000 action sites, etc. which constitute the element of that package of measures. Now I have turned up the page in the setting where this package of measures is mentioned, and I am asking the representative, Djupedal, to show me one point that is directed towards the petroleum industry, where the government has allegedly done so little to meet the need for prompt action. In fact, SV is opposed to the Government’s proposal to reduce the production fee and they are opposed to the Government’s proposal to adjust for SDEE shares in new fields. The overall picture is that SV is standing back with a much less offensive arrangement in relation to the petroleum industry than the government they strongly criticize for lack of action.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1230	I think it is always nice to see that co-representatives spend time on the comments we spend a lot of time writing, but Kvassheim must have missed a small point: we are for a gradual closure of the production support. So if the representative reads them again, he'll see that's right. Otherwise, our main employment policy is to make us less oil dependent. It is clear that it is the future-oriented policy. That is why the measures we are giving here are forward-looking measures. Now we're not going to be as black-skinned as some are that are related to the yard industry and the offshore industry. Last year, almost 75 billion kroner were invested in the North Sea. This year, which is supposed to be very black – and it is clear that it can look a little black in the longer term – nearly SEK 72 billion is invested in the North Sea. That's 28 pst. of all investments made in Norway, which thus go to one sector which employs a relatively limited proportion of the total employment. So we're making ourselves more oil dependent. If we're going to believe in the SSB and in the ministry, we're going to have investments in the North Sea for the next year of over 60 billion dollars. This means that, for many years to come, we will have large investments in one sector which employs very few. But we have agreed that measures are needed for the shipbuilding industry, and we have chosen to concentrate on the shipbuilding industry. That is why – as the first party here on Stortinget – we called for the yard support to rise to the old level, and we also received a majority in favour of it. We have now arranged for an intensification of completion which the Centre Party finally joined, after they were able to push the bill forward on that point. It's gradually become a pattern for this government that you're involved in what you're pushing the bill in front of. But the most important thing about employment is the building of skills, and it's taking care of jobs that point forward. I think that the offshore industry is unfortunately going to have to realize that over a decade you're going to be at a lower level than you are today. I don't think the offshore industry is facing any crash landing, as some have claimed, but we politicians have to help get a soft landing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1239	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1242	Norway is an idyll in a troubled world – both economically and politically. The revision of the national budget of the year shows this. Perhaps the war in the Balkans has also led to few war calls from the opposition in connection with the revision. It's getting a little out of proportion to be heard about pro-mille changes in the state's economic dispositions when we have human and economic disasters so close to us. The statistics state that Norway is the best in Europe, with low unemployment, well-being and well-being for the vast majority. Of course, it is possible to do the most better, and we in the Left are particularly concerned about making our further development more sustainable. We are beheaded by the ostrich to leave to the next generation an earth in better claim than the one we took over. The central government, which before the election was referred to as an airlock, has shown its ability and willingness to take important governance action. A tight fiscal policy in the 1999 state budget has contributed to the necessary cooling of the Norwegian economy, which we now see as the result of the fall in interest rates. At the same time, the use of oil money is the lowest over the 1990s. However, in the context of a tight fiscal policy, there has been room for important policy tasks such as health and care, district and industrial activities, international cohesion and the environment. The figures in the Norwegian economy are broadly in the right direction. The Kronekure is so strong that it has breached the limits of the initial rental. There is still a high level of employment and low unemployment. The interest rate is downwards, and the latest external trade figures show an improved trade balance. In this audit, the government has been able to keep the budgetary rigour tighter by approx. 0.5 percentage points, even after extraordinary expenditure due to the war in Kosovo, after the opposition has found each other by an alternating majority in various additions which together weaken the balance by 450 million. kr. However, the market has not reacted negatively to the fact that we have had to spend some more oil money to cover this. The crown remains strong in relation to the euro. Since Norway’s Bank lowered its interest rate by another half percent, the krona has continued to strengthen. The government's objective has been to reduce interest rates in both the government budget for 1999 and the revised budget, which will provide better conditions for both households, businesses and the public sector. The environmental point of view is bearing on the economic policy of the Left, and it is with regret that we note that the opposition will take a step back by placing the petroleum activity on the base as part of the future quota regime instead of paying the CO2 tax. In addition to weakening the country's economy by a few billion kroner, we also lose the effect of a tax that exercises a continuous pressure to reduce emissions. A reduction in the CO2 tax is at the top of the whole a cost-effective, less targeted and less efficient instrument to increase the level of activity in the petroleum sector. There is no doubt that the CO2 tax has led to intensified activity in order to reduce emissions, and it is sad for future generations that the majority is taking a retreat in this part of the environmental battle. Despite a good employment situation, there are still problems in some industries. This is particularly the case in the yard industry and partly in oil-related activities. This has taken the government and the center parties very seriously. Revised provision has been made for measures to ensure vulnerable jobs. These are selective measures in relation to each field and yard. A lower level of interest will also benefit these enterprises. The left sees it as a superfluous political responsibility to hand down arms and to build up obstacles for all those willing to create their own jobs and not least work for others. It must be honorable to create one's own job. It must also be honorable to make money on it through jobs that provide the owner with good profits for the Community's tax revenue that we can use for our well-being. We need a more innovative Norway. The left makes it possible to maintain profitable industrial jobs. But we feel that the established industries already have a majority of lawyers, not least here in Stortinget. That's why, in our best Left tradition, we'll be lawyers for the unborn and for future generations, both in the environmental battle and in the quest to create new jobs. There is still a very high level of activity in the Norwegian economy, with high employment and high private consumption. Norway is in a situation where other European countries can envy us. I hope that the opposition can also rejoice over this and for a moment forget the gloomy predictions they have made before. They've made a mistake.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1268	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1271	It's a lot to enjoy both politics and otherwise in this country, but there are also some things that concern us, and that's what we're dealing with today. Unemployment will increase, as the Government has also said in its documents in connection with the revised national budget, especially in the offshore and yard industries. So we've lost 22,000 industrial jobs in the last few years. It's a development that goes completely in the wrong direction. There was a great demonstration for a few weeks ago out here in the square when people, from the West in particular, had traveled to Oslo to point out this situation. Then the representative from the Left said: Do they believe that the Government will lay down district jobs in this industry? And then the people shouted "yes" back, because they actually believed that. They see it as the consequence of less investment in the offshore sector. So called Terje Johansen, that using the quota system is a completely wrong signal to give relative to reducing the CO2 tax on the socket, while others from the government party, which I have met with the last weeks, have said that there is no disunity between the Labour Party and the Government Party about the situation in the yard industry. Now the representative from the Left says he is sorry for the decision that is being taken today in relation to getting the CO2 tax into the allowances system. Is it to understand, then, that one doesn't come back to the house with this? So there's a multiple today that says this is the right way to go. There is no requirement to charge CO2, but it is to be included in the entire allowance system. My question is, Will this be followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1286	The representative of Frøiland says that there's a lot to enjoy. I can at least enjoy her saying that there aren't 22,000 jobs we've lost in the industry lately, that's 6,000. So she says it's a step that goes in the wrong direction. We fully agree on that. The point is that there are steps that go in exactly the same direction as they have gone in all the ten years that the Workers' Party put in power, so that this is nothing new. The representative mentioned what I said to the yard workers. I'm standing by what I said to the shipyard workers. When they said that they did not believe that the government was concerned with securing their jobs, they could not have studied the package contained in the revised national budget. I can sum it up for the representative of Frøiland: there are ten proposals that go together in the shipbuilding and petroleum industries. We have seven proposals on which the Labour Party and the Centre are united, they came from the Government. We have joined three proposals from the Workers' Party, and the only working party is 52 million. kr to the fishing fleet, which they finance by cutting the employment resources of seafarers. What I think is a bit alarming, is that when we were out there, one of the central board members in the Workers' Party came with accusations against the center that they did nothing. When the Workers' Party now goes out and wants to cut off the reimbursement scheme for seafarers, we haven't heard a single pipe from LO. What I said out there was that this looked like it was directed by the Workers' Party, and I stand by that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1300	The representative, Terje Johansen, said at the beginning of his speech that Norway was a refuge in the world, where there was no poverty and no war, and I fully agree with him on that. But it makes me wonder, because it looks like the Center Party is winning center, and for some strange reason, the Left is missing in punishing the developing countries who want to trade with Norway. Trade with LDCs is the best way to promote development in these countries. For several of these countries, agricultural products, including meat, are among the few products that are realistic for countries to export to a significant extent. The system of auctioning for purchasing import authorisations and customs duties on MUL imported beef cannot be in the interests of Norwegian consumers and not in the interests of foreign exporters. My question is, how can it be in the Left's interest?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1306	The representative Svendsen said that I had said that Norway was a sanctuary without poverty and not in war. I haven't said that, because that's actually not exactly how it is, but I'm not going to have any discussion about it right now. His question is whether the Left is won over by the Center Party, I tip it off in connection with the MUL regime and the auction system. Let me make it clear that this government is the government that has held the aid tab the most elevated by governments in the years that I have an overview of. It has been despite, among others. The promotion party's attempt to get the centre to help cut down on the assistance. In the case of the auction system, there is something that is being introduced experimentally for, inter alia: removing some of the unfairness of the fact that those who have so far had import quotas have left farms with all profits by importing cheap meat and that they have not benefited consumers. The auction system is an attempt to take some of this gain into the treasury, in order to distribute it. But as far as I know, without having a full overview of this particular topic, there is a proposal that the auction system should be assessed specifically by outsiders, so we get back to it when it has started to work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1315	The representative Terje Johansen is a species of plant in the centre garden. He reminded us of the tradition of the Left: where there are three left-wing people present, at least three opinions are represented. What Terje Johansen has instigated is probably a new tradition, namely that when a government with the Left is presenting a position, Terje Johansen comes to the opposite. I can only recall – from the short memory – that Terje Johansen is for the Swedish Social Security Fund to be allowed to invest out. The government is against it. He's for the state to sell itself into Hydro. Government lots are to buy up. He's against continuing the subsidisation of power prices to the industry. The government has just presented a proposition in which they continue to do so, and the government parties have strengthened it during the process in Stortinget. He's against legal educational leave. The government is too busy. That's how I could keep going. My question is, what is Terje Johansen's role anyway? It may be an unusual question to ask, but sometimes you get the impression that Terje Johansen is being sent out to capture the voters left really should have had – with the opposite attitude of the Government. This is going to be a little confusing in the long term. I have to say that I like to print a quote from Terje Johansen to my chest. It's from July last year: ‘I am terrified that the Government will try to lean on Ap. in the budget. We will go down into a great hole." Will Terje Johansen repeat it this year?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1329	I think I press to my chest that what I say is noticed and not least remembered by the representative Per-Christian Foss. It shows that raising your voice can sometimes pay off. Now I must also say that I am involved in discussions in the Left and in the Government, and it is not always that I – and for that matter the Left – win forward with everything that the Left stands for. Let me take the last statement that was quoted right now. The attitude of the government parties to re-purchase in Hydro following any issue was at issue. What has happened there is that the government has obtained a mandate, and the government will assess it. My advice to the Government is that if you don't want to use your ownership for the political management of Hydro, you shouldn't do that, because that money can be used for other purposes. I stand by that. That discussion has not ended, either in the Left or in the Government. As far as electricity prices are concerned, I have to say that there has been a significant victory for the Left – and therefore I –. We have now moved on to a regime that means a gradual phasing-out of power subsidies to the power-intensive industry. They get enough years to change, and then they get on their own. I believe that to be a victory, because neither I nor the Left have ever thought that this would come in one turn. That would have threatened these workplaces. And I've said that none of us want to shut down these jobs – rather on the contrary. But they have to stand on their own legs, and they'll do that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1340	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1343	Getting your shoulder clapped and encouraging calls from people on the sidewalk when you are responsible for fees is enough to expect too much in everyday life. However, you may experience an understanding that fees have to be paid, especially when the intention of the fee is followed up in practice. In the decisions we are about to take, the majority have made a number of necessary changes in this way. First, the compensation for the diesel tax for buses – express buses and others. In the transition to green taxes, it was decided that the diesel tax should be introduced into fuel prices. The bus companies were to see what it cost. At the same time, they were promised a predictable compensation system to inspire efficiency and pollution reduction. So far we've seen something beyond a fight between the department and the bus companies about the size of the compensation. The offer to travellers has been the balancing item. We can't have it that way. The majority today decide on the basis of which compensation will be fixed per cent. driving km you are allowed to. The amount of this amount is now determined on the basis of the amount of compensation decided by Stortinget, broken down by the kilometres for which a concession has been granted today. We assume that this compensation per. km is paid equally for all routes, regardless of whether or not a grant is granted. With a fixed compensation per. km, the annual appropriations for the State budget will be adapted at all times to the lines for which each company has a concession. Adjustments to the compensation shall only be made if any changes to the diesel charge are made. The effect of this will be that one for companies achieved a reduction in fuel consumption per year. km will improve the economy of companies. A transition to gas-fuelled buses will be stimulated. The effects of the green tax envisaged are satisfied. This was a bit detailed, but probably necessary clarification of what the majority wants, and then we're just going to assume that the scheme will be put in place in the harvest budget. Many issues arise with regard to our energy situation, not least with regard to the environment. Today we use more electricity than we can produce. Imported electricity contaminates more than our self-produced. Uncertainty related to price and lack of willingness to think in the long-term of too many power plant owners leads to the possible efficiency of current installations not too often. Uncontroversial new projects are not realised. In addition to the problems this creates on the supply side, it leads to a dramatic decline in the competence of Norwegian workshops and the other supplier industry. It is a cross-thinking that the investments made in the Norwegian hydropower system of around NOK 190 billion do not provide a necessary predictable maintenance and rehabilitation image for the supplier industry. In order to improve this, Stortinget now adopts a two-year exemption from the investment levy for hydropower projects to be implemented during the two-year period from 1 January 2000. Upgrading projects and other hydropower projects which could be accelerated by the exemption are assumed to fall within the scheme. Strangely enough, the government parties are not included in the setting in this case, despite very positive remarks from the ministry on the effect of the exemption. Perhaps this will be corrected in the evening's voting. Moreover, I refer to a number of other suggestions from the Labour Party in the vote, which fortunately have a majority in most cases. So a explanation of vote that might be appropriate to bring right now. It concerns proposal No. 80, from the representative Randi Karlstrøm. The Labour Party will also vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1364	We're doing the usual exercise, we're looking at the revised budget. At the end of the proceedings of the Financial Committee, the chairperson of the Committee expressed fairly precisely that this was probably a record in terms of time use, in terms of the treatment of government budgets. We were done in the committee long before we calculated, and that's why I guess there was a reason to say that. This suggests that there cannot be such a huge disagreement about financial and monetary policy in terms of the budget as a whole, much less disagreement than it seems when we debate here in the Chamber. After all, I am alone in the Finance Committee, and only in the Stortinget from our party. I know the limitations I have on the work of the committee. But I must say that I am very pleased with the consideration both of the proposals I have made and of the way in which the Committee looks at the proposals I have made. Of course, in the context of budgetary work, I have had a good deal of my own wishes, which I have not always been in agreement with. The things I have concentrated on – both individual proposals that I have promoted, and those that I have promoted with others – are at the heart of things, such as yard support, reimbursement schemes for seafarers, fleet renewal, port development, road race protection, improvement of road standards and such things. Some of those things I have been talking to others about, but these are also proposals I have made on my own that I have not received approval for in the committee. One of those proposals is exceptional environmental measures in Groruddalen. The suggestions that I have made, I warn you that I am addressing them. Nevertheless, I think it is in my place to mention one of the suggestions that I made when I entered the Stortinget. I just want to tell Stortinget that a few days ago, I opened the radio transmitter on Røst, which is one of the two radio transmitters that the committee agreed to. It sounds very good, all the way to Jan Mayen. It was really nice that the committee agreed to that, and I have to commend the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Fisheries for doing so. When it comes to financing the next sender on North Cape, I assume it's going to be fine. It's been really nice to be able to be part of this. So even though I am alone in the committee, it turns out that proposals can be made that are sensible and that they can be accepted. There is also another matter that I have raised several times that shows that it is possible to hear. Well, it was the Workers' Party that promoted the proposal. There was an increase in the framework to ensure control of the Loran C radio navigation system, which is also to be extended to satellite navigation. It's a very special case, which not everyone knows. It was also endorsed by the Committee, and I assume that the Stortinget – with the exception of the Advance Party – will also join it. There are district workplaces that are being secured, but not enough, we're ensuring an autonomous navigation system based on both radio signals and satellite, and it's not dependent on the American GPS system that can be ludicrous in use, depending on the kind of security situation we have in the world. That, I think, is a very given measure to be implemented. I feel reasonably satisfied with the work we have done in the committee. I would also like to mention a few other proposals, which did not get the correct agreement. I made a proposal for a budget of 6 million. kr for search for dead persons at sea after the rescue centres have set their search. It did not get agreement, but it is a matter that the government has under consideration, so we will return to it. It is likely to be discussed in connection with the budget for the autumn, whether they present it or not. And then a little heartache in the end, which may be a little off the budget line and outside just this matter, but still. I record that we can no longer afford to keep a cultural institution as the University publisher. Gyldendal and Ashehoug are now to be slaughtered. I will characterize that as a cultural policy scandal that we will certainly come back to the autumn when we start again after the holiday.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1385	The representative Steinar Bastisen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1388	: As a tax policy spokesman, you never get unemployed. It is always more than enough to take off in the case of fiscal swirling pipes and rarities hatched in the Ministry of Finance. It does not appear that changing policy management has a particular impact on creativity in terms of figuring out new taxes or in designing new grounds for old taxes. In 5 minutes I will limit myself to a small sample of what is found in the UK's official tax cookbook Volume 2, 1999, also called the revised national budget. It is difficult to be particularly moody in its approach to the management of oil and gas activities by the Government. It should subsequently appear reasonably obvious to this assembly that the oil industry is struggling in reverse and that flat terrain in the form of sustained higher oil prices is not particularly likely. Historically, the oil price is actually slightly above normal today. However, the oil wealth created here in the country has come as a result of historically very high oil prices, precisely during the period when Norwegian oil production has been at its highest. The current tax regime is not adapted to the new reality of both low oil prices, marginally profitable tail production in old fields and almost complete cessation of exploration and the launch of new fields. We are therefore facing a challenge that is absolutely urgent. We need to increase tail production in old fields, and we need to provide incentives for exploration and launching new fields. The Progress Party is therefore pleased to be associated with the Right Party and the Labour Party to ask the Government to remove the production fee in some fields. However, the forwarding party would prefer, and suggests, to wind up the production fee for existing fields as soon as possible. The Progress Party also supports proposals to fully abolish the CO2 tax on the continental shelf, with effect from 1 July. We do this in recognising that a complete removal of the CO2 tax is guaranteed to work better than the puzzle reduction that has come. In addition, it is best for both oil companies and their employees, as well as for the whole supply industry, the local economy and the state itself that we have a tax regime that facilitates activities that ultimately generate tax revenue rather than social security payments. We are afraid that the reduction in the CO2 tax, which we subsidiaryly support, is not enough to maintain a proper level of activity in the oil and gas industry and their related businesses. So the government's management of the need for changing framework conditions on the continental shelf is not in the best interest. The Government's setting to the need for changed framework conditions can be summarized in two words: Sit still! The central parties have been so suspended in a green tax policy that they have become completely green political – and that is not a complement. Norwegian continental shelf is already the most environmentally friendly in the world. With its quiet green policy, it can become too environmentally friendly. At the end of production due to suffocation due to fees, emissions are also known to end. At the limit of being even less humorous, its silent policy is in the case of the specular charging regime in flight. It seems that the center of the house has passed by that there is free competition in the air. Foreign companies and Norwegian companies with large foreign traffic benefit from free purchases of fuel and other goods and services. Thus, not all companies share the same view as regards the framework conditions for competition. We will do something about this now, and therefore we are promoting proposals for fiscal equality between airlines with effect from 1 July, and we are pleased with the support of the Workers' Party and the Right What a good reason the Centre has for maintaining an injustice until the next millennium is a well-kept secret in the position of the Financial Committee. Arnulf Upperland's words about injustice should be well known in the Christian People's Party, so we get to believe it's the Center Party that has pulled the longest straw in the internal center negotiations. There is more training in the farm now to maintain legal and contractual protection for unwarranted wrongs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1416	The treatment of the revised national budget in the United Kingdom has traditionally been much more than that available under the concept of ‘audit’; both government and government have been able to back up both new policies and new, cost-effective measures. However, following the adoption by the Stortinget of the new budget regulation, there has been a broad consensus that it will carry out one budgetary procedure per year. years, and that consideration of the proposal for a revised national budget should be limited to just that – an audit. It is not so easy to draw up any sharp limits here, but we must at least be satisfied with the consideration of this year's revised national budget, which gave almost the same tightness in the budget line as in the autumn, even though the balance is now weakened by 450 million. kr, including the financing of technology development funds for the petroleum industry. Now we are reaping the results of a sensible fiscal policy – interest rates are falling, the currency is strong and stable, and price developments are under control. The market has faith in the governance of the Norwegian economy. When the oil price has reached a much more ‘normal’ level — it is now in fact stable at over 15 dollars — and unemployment is much less negative than what both the institutes and parts of the opposition have expressed — yes, both the collapse and the government can see the situation brighter and take a well-deserved summer vacation. That we have come to such a favourable position is, of course, not only because of the good work of the Government and the Minister of Finance, but also because of the social partners, who have contributed their own. The agreement on the conclusions of the Arntsen Committee has obviously turned out to be positive. Besides, there are not least positive signals from the outside, and we see once again how open the Norwegian economy is to what's happening internationally, to good and bad. Now it's obviously swinging in our favor, and it's giving good drag help. And we like to share both the glory of and the joy of this positive development with the parties that made sure to unload the budget in port last autumn: the Advance Party and the Right. Not all workers will recognize themselves in such a description, that there is a good situation. And it's worth remembering that while some industries are still experiencing a tight labour market, there are other industries that are struggling with permits, redundancies and the risk that the whole business can end. This is particularly the case in the construction industry and in the oil industry, there are problems. This is something the government has gone into carefully, and it is not right that the government stands passive and looks at this without doing anything, as one hears. These include: granted 100 million. kr for technology-oriented projects in the petroleum sector. A fund of DKK 3 billion is being built for business, aimed at technology development and cost reduction. New ships shall be put into production. The Guarantee Institute for General Guarantee Coverage of Export Credit is extended and the production fee on the base is to be reduced. Of course, it is important for the Government to follow this situation closely and possibly return to the Storting with new measures. However, for many companies, the best aid can be to reduce interest rates. It is, of course, true – as some have pointed out – that a high Norwegian interest rate compared to that of our competitors is a major obstacle to our export businesses. We have recorded that a majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right, are in favour of the Government already preparing to remove the production fee in some fields in order to decide on the development of marginal projects and investment in tail production, on the basis of the acute, difficult situation in the petroleum sector. So this isn't just the government itself warning, but the measures have been pushed forward in time, and we take note of that. In addition, there are quite different proposals regarding the CO2 tax. For our part, we warn against a reduction here. Such a reduction will not automatically be accurate in relation to the increased activity that one is looking for. In addition, this will obviously break with the clear international commitments of Norway, including: through the Kyoto Agreement. Only when a national greenhouse gas allowance system is in place can a serious and targeted look at how to change the CO2 tax without creating problems for the environment and international agreements as tried here. The centre lots have focused on covering all expenditure increases with the corresponding cost reductions or increases in income. The problem again is that it is much easier to find together on expenditure increases than on expenditure cuts or increases in income. But despite spending increases of up to NOK 6 billion, the Financial Committee has succeeded in reaching an agreement to cover over 90 p.m. of this in different ways. In this way, we must be satisfied with the overall result, and it is therefore natural for me to close this article by thanking all my colleagues on Stortinget for a really good and well-earned summer holiday.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1437	First, we need a line chord shift.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1440	When the representative Steensnæs says that there is almost the same rigour in the revision as in the budget adopted before Christmas, it is simply not right. What we see is a shift in fiscal policy. It was said that 9 billion kroner would have to be reduced when the State budget was presented by the Government, now it is reduced to 3.7 billion kroner. That's why more and more people now say that the interest rate may not go down as much as it does. The Minister of Finance said here in Stortinget when the revised national budget was presented. Expenditure growth doubles in six months, from the presentation of the budget to the revision of the national budget. The use of oil money is doubled, but expenditure increases are not used for what is forward-looking. I have a specific question in the light of the sad developments we see in our schools and kindergartens. The parental pay of the school leisure scheme is increasing sharply. The same applies to the parental payment in kindergartens, and kindergarten development has virtually stopped. The messages from municipalities are now unambiguous, and this negative development will continue when the budget for the next year is to be set up. Then there will be even more going out on the schools, public schools, and kindergartens. My question is: Will the Christian People's Party be involved in sending a clear message to the municipalities that their budgets should not be set up on this basis? If you want to tell me that the state now has to go in and do the situation differently, that is. more funding for the school leave scheme and more for kindergartens, and a positive development in Norwegian school in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1448	With regard to the outcome of the treatment of the revised national budget, there is no reason to believe that we had hoped that the opposition would have contributed to expenditure increases in the same way as it has contributed to the corresponding cut in expenditure, so that we got a balance. The centre batches have done it in their proposal. I insist that although we have had a deterioration, the budget indicator is now at 0.38 p.m. It was adopted on the basis of a budget of 0.43 p.m. for 1999. So it's a change of 0.05 pst. We should have avoided that, but we still see that, after the presentation of the Financial Committee, the crown strengthened. The trust in the Norwegian economy is obviously strong. I do not demand enthusiasm and joy from the Workers' Party for this, but I had hoped for a small positive statement and a small degree of satisfaction that, after all, it seems to go much better for the Norwegian economy. And that's something we should be able to enjoy in common, whether we belong to government parties or opposition, because this is objective, sober, neutral information that we can relate to. So, Jagland says that we don't spend our money on what's "future-oriented" was his expression. Now it is probably a political assessment of what the individual parties think is forward-looking, but I agree without a doubt with Jagland that in terms of investing in education, it is very important. Municipalities should be given their allocations in the form of framework appropriations, and then I will be very reluctant to conduct the local government from the Parliament's pulpit, and tell them what to prioritize. I'm confident they'll be able to judge that for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1459	The Progress Party is pleased that, after several meetings between the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party gradually seemed to be fulfilling the agreement between these parties in connection with the state budget in order to give more money to strengthen the police, to the Defence and to hospitals. I must say it is amazing that the Progress Party, together with the Right, must come up with threats to the Christian People's Party in order for them to comply with a budgetary agreement and ensure patient treatment, among other things. in county hospitals. In my view, it is quite fundamental that if the parties to the agreement are to have a good relationship between them, it must be based on the confidence of the parties. Does the Christian People's Party agree that when the Government submits a budget that does not comply with agreements that have been concluded, it does not invite the counterparty to conclude new agreements. I would like to ask the same question to the representative Steensnæs that I asked to the representative Jørgen Holte: can we expect a Christian People's Party government to meet agreements without it happening after threats, with subsequent negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1468	I put in my post a tribute both to the Advance Party and to the Right when it came to budgetary cooperation. If that's what's needed, I'd like to repeat it in this line as well. But in relation to keeping budgetary agreements, I just want to confirm that it is very important for us. We know that this government is going to have the opportunity to negotiate several times with the Storing as it looks now, and we also know that if there is any doubt that you can trust the agreements that are being concluded, it will only strike back on us who are trying to renegotiate. That was why we were willing to look at the objections that the Progress Party and the Right had to the proposed revised national budget presented by the Government. I'm not going to go into detail on how we thought and argued to defend that it was possible to cut 100 million. kr within the large defence budget without being able to be assessed as anything other than audit, as indicated in the process. From the Progress Party and the Right, it was seen as a change of policy. We took note of that, and after the objections of these two parties, we fixed it up. The same was true of the 20 million. kr that came into place in relation to the police operating budget. There we also had a different opinion, but to be on the very safe side, we were also here willing to fix it. This was to show that the center parties are to be trusted when one enters into agreements with these. Then I would also add that this agreement had an important clause, namely that if any of the parties needed to change assumptions and make proposals other than that of the agreement room, there was an opportunity to do so after previous discussions. We have, in our view, acted neatly in it. The government contacted the two parties concerned and discussed this. Even after the budget was presented, we went into the corresponding discussions, which led to the positive result to which it is referred – plus 120 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1477	The representative Steensnæs thanked for good cooperation, and wished us good summer. I am not so sure if I could have returned that wish if it had not been so that the government parties had met us on what we thought was a breach of the agreement, by giving more money to the defense, the police and the effort-driven funding, as it was very important for us to get in place. But we have already heard Steensnæs" explanation of this, and we are pleased with the agreement as it has become. What I wanted to mention was that the last harvest the government wrote in the budget that the generation accounts were in close balance. In the revised budget, the government writes that the balance sheet should be NOK 10-25 billion. better, in order to avoid shifting burdens to future generations. That means that the next generation has to pay more in taxes. In any case, the real generation accounts should show a clear profit now that we're close to a cyclical peak. It's not sustainable to be close to balance or to have deficits in good times, and even greater deficits when we have low economic downturns, because that is, we're really going to make a profit in the generation accounts. In response to the Right, the Minister of Finance says that the Government places emphasis on long-term considerations in the formulation of fiscal policy and also shows that these issues will be discussed in the long-term programme 2002-2005. But when you say that you put emphasis on long-term considerations, and then you present a budget with a clear deficit in the generational accounts, despite being at the top of a high economic cycle, you have to say that the government has abandoned the long-term considerations they say they focus on. Isn't it morally reprehensible to roll this over to future generations?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1490	It can go very hard in this house, but never should it go so hard that we can't get away with each other for a good summer holiday – I hope I didn't get it wrong with the representative Nakkim. But then I think the representative Nakkim is bold. She referred to the generation accounts. It is true that the government has referred to that in order to balance it, there might be a need for further tightening of NOK 10-20 billion. In its alternative draft budget, the right is not close to doing so. There's no quality difference in what the government is doing, and what the Right is doing. They have an improved budget balance of DKK 1.7 billion – that's right. But there is a long way from NOK 1.7 billion to the DKK 10-20 billion that now the representative Nakkim in a way makes the centre parties solely responsible for. Then I would also say that we have never spent as little of the oil money as this year – NOK 11 billion. We've never taken less of our oil money than this time. The government has been very conscious of exactly what the representative Nakkim is trying to remind us, that we should not spend more oil money than is strictly necessary, and that it should be saved for future generations. Perhaps the representative, Nakkim, could have signed that out. And then in relation to holding budgetary agreements: the proposal that the Right has presented breaks in my view – and I have said that repeatedly – with perfectly clear agreements and understanding of what a revised budget should be. It is in comprehensive policy areas that I should not refer to. But next to this, the right-hand side has also added 30 million. kr i reduction in cash support because they want a completely different management of the cash support model, a pure social security model. In any case, it is clearly contrary to the agreement we concluded with the Advance Party and the Right when it comes to the cash support. So I don't think the representative Nakkim would come to us and talk about breaking agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1501	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1504	It is gratifying that the Workers' Party, in the position we are discussing today, has joined quite a lot of its business package and educational package. These two belong very closely together, because skills may be the most important industrial policy and at the same time the best district policy. We've got an educational community, and there's reason to believe that, in the future, we'll become an education society even more strongly. Nor is there any reason to minimize what we have achieved by raising the general level of education in our own population. The results are visible from the bottom to the top of our education system. There has been enormous quantitative growth, which has also been a democratization process, because we know that education plays a major role in the distribution of goods. School motivation is traditionally very closely related to the background that comes from, from home, and we have to make sure that, from society and the authorities, everyone's resources are used. And then we have a big challenge when it comes to changing the content of the school and also going through the entire quality page. That is why we advocate ten new years on the education side. But that also means that we should take into account which society our children and young people will meet next time. Therefore, it has been so important in this house that we have put emphasis on the school of unity – togetherness even if you come from different backgrounds. And now if we just look at the last few years, 1997 and 1998, we see that the middle parties, i.e. the government parties, increased the subsidy to the private schools by 150 million. kr. This year they have increased the grant to private schools by 70 million. kr. And while they're saying that they're in the public school, they've reduced the grants to this school by 328 million. kr. Some places we also see that the private school challenges the public school and actually becomes the secondary school, but a school that not everyone can go into. Today, our country has a notice that the small Kåfjord municipality in Troms is in danger of losing one of its five schools whose private school there becomes a reality. In several small towns new private schools are now proposed: in Sveio, Balsfjord, Volda and Kåfjord, as I mentioned. In Volda, the Right-Rapporteur, Knut Bere, says that the new Sunnmare high school ‘may be able to defuse the three urban schools’ if it becomes established. We believe that when we experience this in small communities, we must have a common responsibility to ensure that the single school is the secondary school and the common meeting point. In addition, of course, we are now going to have an offensive to renovate the single school both in terms of content and in terms of construction. The other day, the Church, Education and Research Committee also gave its opinion on the St.meld. No 32 for 1998-99 on higher education, where we went through reform 94, and a joint committee repeated that we should have an IT plan. And we've told the government several times that we're going to have that plan, and now we've told them to bring it in the government budget, and they get a four-year implementation period. When everyone talks about, and everyone agrees, that education is an important regional policy instrument, it is strange and quite amazing that government parties are not involved in increasing the number of student housing in the case of decentralised education, and unfortunately they are not involved in increasing the number of student housing. The Prime Minister is busy making a sample of youth housing, and that should be lacking, because it has actually been announced to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1524	I have to be allowed to say that there was a rather peculiar post that the representative Einar Steensnæs held here – on several points, but you have to choose something. What was perhaps the most eye-catching thing was his claim that the Right did not relate to the budget agreement. That is what the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, who is a representative of a government that has now made dramatic changes to its own tightening up last autumn. In this room, only the Right is promoting a revised national budget that contains the same tightening as the Government itself proposed last autumn. It is alleged to be a breach of the budgetary agreement to deal with the tightening that was the bearer of the budget of the year. Understand who it is who wills! There is, on the other hand, a rather deafening silence in this room here today from the centre parties in terms of the reason why it is now right to tighten down on the Norwegian economy. That question has not been answered. The point is that there is no need to tighten in, but to let go. It is rather the opposite if you want to achieve the objective that the Minister of Finance is constantly waving away: we are going to come down against European interest during the year, says the Minister of Finance. – Now I see that he shakes his head, I guess I'm one of the many people who have misunderstood him. But it is quite alarming if the aim of the Minister of Finance is no longer to come down to the European level of interest this year. It might be postponed to next year? In this case, it must be as a result of the government now tightening up the revised national budget less than was provided for in the last year's budget. What is the reason why the fall in interest rates will take longer and that interest rates may not reach the European level? Of course, the government has chosen to change the tightening-up from NOK 9 billion to NOK 3.7 billion. And of course, this is because you have problems inside the government, because there are so many people who want to increase the cost. The result is that it is the market that decides, it is the market that makes the restrictions. And the market does that by continuing to live in Norway at an excessive level of interest rates. I think that's a very high price to pay. This is in addition to the fact that the Government does not take seriously the issue of generation accounts. I think it was violent that the representative Einar Steensnæs went all over the place with harelab. He almost ironized and grumbled over the representative Nakkim when she pointed out that since the state budget last fall and until the revised national budget now, we have moved from a budget in a generational balance to a budget in which the Government itself underlines and states that 10 to 25 billion dollars are missing in order to defend it generationally. And when you weaken the generation accounts, spend more money and send the bill to the next generation at the time when the oil revenues are at their highest, and there are still not as many pensioners who are going to receive popular security as it is going to be in 20 years, what should the government do? Well, of course, you should have tightened up and added up to a sustainable arrangement. But the answer to its own challenge of taking the generation accounts seriously is to slow down, double the expenditure growth, double the use of oil money and halve the contraction. This is the centre party's contribution to economic policy now. There's a relationship that we can do something about, and that's where the government should have put the effort, but that's where the point by point fails. And as I said at the outset, the only party that cooperated on the state budget last autumn that meets the budget balance is the Right, so those who break the budget agreement in the most basic way are the central parties, which are weakening the budget by NOK 4 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1539	Last autumn, many predicted a sudden stop for the Norwegian economy, with a sharp increase in unemployment. Fortunately, this has not happened. It is due to a soft landing for the Norwegian economy after the long boom. The balance of the Norwegian economy is improving. A tight government budget has worked as intended. Spring's income statement resulted in moderate supplements. The exchange rate has gradually returned to the initial rental, and the interest rate has fallen by 2 percentage points since the new year. The oil price has increased to nearly NOK 130 per year. catch the last few days. Price increases are low and unemployment is the lowest in over 10 years. If we continue moderate income accounting and pursue a fiscal policy that helps to stabilise the development of the Norwegian economy, we have good opportunities to maintain high employment and low unemployment in the future. Between 1997 and 1998, it was clear that the labour reserve in parts of the labour market was being exhausted. The fall in unemployment in 1998 was significantly stronger than in previous years, and wage growth increased sharply. The annual wage growth from 1997 to 1998 is estimated at 6.2 p.p., which is twice the wage growth of our trading partners. At the same time, the oil price fell sharply – from an average of NOK 136 per person. 1997 to NOK 96 in 1998. This contributed, along with strong import growth, to the turning of a surplus on the operating accounts with the rest of the world in 1997 of approximately DKK 56 billion to a deficit of about DKK 16 billion in 1998. Strong wage growth, low oil prices and international financial turmoil led to a sharp decline in the krone price and a doubling of the Norwegian interest rate last summer. The main challenge now is to ensure balanced development in the Norwegian economy. The growth of prices and costs must be brought down rapidly to the same level as that of our trading partners. If not, the possibility of maintaining high employment is reduced. The positive trends so far this year must be continued. It is therefore important to implement a tight fiscal regime to mitigate the pressures on the economy. The outlook for 1999 and 2000 points towards a clear dampening of economic growth. After an increase in the GDP of mainland Norway on about 31⁄4 pst. last year, the growth is estimated at 3⁄4 pst. Investments are primarily declining, both in the oil sector and in parts of the mainland economy, which will contribute to lower growth. In any case, it would not have been possible to maintain as high economic growth as in recent years. The strong wage growth last year was a sign of significant pressures and very high capacity utilisation in the economy. Therefore, lower growth over a limited period does not represent any dramatic development. Per. On 16 June, 55 500 unemployed persons were registered, or 2.4 pst. by the labour force. This was 1,800 fewer unemployed than a year ago. The number of persons on employment measures was reduced by almost 8 000 over the same period. The Ministry of Finance's financial forecast indicates a moderate increase in unemployment during the year, but far from an increase of 30 000 people, as the Labour Party has claimed here today. The unemployment figures in the last few weeks do not justify the adjustment of the unemployment allowance in the revised national budget. The main priority of the government has been to implement a tight fiscal regime for 1999. At the same time, there had to be room for the necessary appropriations for purposes that were not known at the time of the adoption of the State budget. This applies primarily to expenditure related to the Kosovo crisis. Following an overall assessment of the Norwegian economy, and in view of the problems associated with the implementation of major changes and significant expenditure reductions in the middle of the financial year, the Government found it appropriate to reduce the budgetary balance somewhat. The changes in the state budget that are being adopted today weaken the government budget, excluding oil, by about SEK 2.2 billion before changes in estimates and technical changes. This is about 450 million. kr more than in the Government’s plans. The fiscal regime thus tightens in 1999 to around 1⁄2 pst. of the GDP of mainland Norway. I am very pleased that the Government's proposal for changes to the State budget is largely endorsed by the Stortinget. The Government is supported by its main priorities. At the same time, budgetary rigour is maintained that is sound in relation to the challenges we face in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1571	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1574	We are perhaps several who, during the debate, have been waiting for the Minister of Finance's comments, not least to hear his assessment of the budget presented and adopted today, and its impact on the Norwegian economy. Because, as has been said, it has so far been silenced by the government parties in assessing whether the fact that the budget cuts are more than halved has a favourable or unfavourable effect on the Norwegian economy. A short time ago, the Minister of Finance said that a fiscal policy that contributes to a balanced development of the economy, etc. can be a soft landing. And Minister of Finance Restad came to the conclusion at the end of the speech that it was a sound arrangement that was adopted. Does this mean that Gudmund Restad, who is our finance minister, believes that the budget adopted today is well adapted to the economic situation, when the arrangement he made to the Stortingen last harvest, with a reduction of DKK 9 billion, which was then assessed as necessary, is now reduced to NOK 3.7 billion? Then my question is: at what point was it when the Minister of Finance took such a fundamental mistake in the harvest, when the need for tightening was assessed quite differently? Finally, it may be interesting to hear the Minister of Finance’s assessment of how the budget adopted today will affect interest rates in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1584	The representative of Hill-Marta Solberg claims that the budget cuts that seem to be adopted today are more than half of the budget that was adopted last year. That's not right. The budget adopted last autumn had a reduction of 3⁄4 pst. GDP. The budget that will be adopted today has a reduction of 1⁄2 pst. So the claim from Hill-Marta Solberg is wrong. I have also heard earlier today that we are dealing with pinexersis. You're assuming $9 billion, which is slightly higher than what the government proposed, and you're going to end up with a figure of less than $4 billion. In the last figure – i.e. less than NOK 4 billion – it is among other things. One billion dollars, which is simply due to another way of calculating the contraction factor. And that doesn't mean you spend more money or the budget gets less tight in reality. And then I think it's a little striking that not only the Workers' Party, but also the Right criticises the Government that we have put up too little budget. Each of them has a somewhat tighter arrangement – in a slightly subtle way, I'd like to claim. But it doesn't matter what they do in theory, but what they do in practice here in the hall. Because here in the Chamber, of course, those parties are contributing to a further 450 million in the budget. kr. If the government's arrangements were too tight, it should not be necessary to reduce it further by 450 million. kr, as the opposition is now doing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1593	I have three questions for the Minister of Finance. The first is in connection with my main post, where I asked the Council of State to explain the Government's view relating to the additional 20 million. kr for the operation of the police. Will these funds be used just for it – wages and salaries – or will they be used for anything else? The next question is related to the interest rate. We have seen and heard the Minister of Finance say on several occasions how he intends to bring the Norwegian interest rate level down to the European level. The question is: is it that the Minister of Finance has now begun to instruct the Bank of Norway in relation to when, how much and how to reduce the interest rate, or is it still the case that the Bank of Norway takes this assessment based on economic developments, or perhaps within the framework of the regulation, which should therefore be in proportion to the development of the exchange rate? My third question is about the Social Security Fund. What is the reason for the government's reluctance to open up the People's Security Fund to invest in foreign companies? Why should there be different practices between the Swedish Social Security Fund and the Petroleum Fund in relation to this right of establishment? And if that's how the government thinks about opening this up, then when do you intend to do it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1602	I followed Siv Jensen's posts earlier today, and when in my main post I did not respond to the call she then made, it was simply a matter of time – 5 minutes is 5 minutes. Regardless of whether the question would come, I was prepared to answer in the loop. The question from Siv Jensen was about the 20 million. kr, which is now granted extra to the police, will be used for police work and not for administrative or other non-police purposes. After all, I assume that any government council that receives increased appropriations in its budget will make sure that it uses that money in the way that the Storting has foreseen. For security reasons, I have made contact with the Ministry of Justice after Siv Jensen's posts today, to be 100 p.m. ensure that it will happen this time as well. There we have been informed that the 20 million. kr – each crown – will be distributed to the police districts. Then it's up to the individual police chief to use the funds where they're needed the best, and then I'm pretty sure they'll go to police work. Then there were a couple of other themes – first the interest rate. I want to take the opportunity here and now to reject again that it is promised anything in relation to interest rate developments. But I've had some views about what I think will be a likely interest rate development. And when I've said that Norwegian interest rates will go down – I haven't said down to, but down to – a European level, I've always made it clear that it doesn't happen this year, but in next year. The last topic I'm going to discuss in the last half-minute is the possibilities of the Swedish Social Security Fund to invest abroad. I believe that an appropriate division of labour between the Swedish Social Security Fund and the oil fund is that the Swedish Social Security Fund remains in Norway and has its competence here, while the oil/petroleum fund stays abroad, where they have their competence. It is unnecessary to build cross-cutting competences. So if there's a point of investing more abroad, you can change the rules on how much the petroleum fund is going to invest there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1613	A lot needs to be heard, and I now understand that the new definition of block-dependence is a parliamentaryism in which the opposition parties, which are in majority, are to be responsible for saving the Government's proposals through unchanged. This is a new, interesting parliamentaryism. Then you might be able to assess whether you need to sit in government? Here it is a government that first invites to negotiations. We meet and want to negotiate, put forward a series of cut suggestions to keep the balance – now I am talking on behalf of the Right – and then the message comes that no thanks, we will not negotiate with you, we do not want any agreement with you. Then we are given the responsibility that the result of the strategy of government parties themselves is exceedances of 450 million. kr. It won't hold! You have to take responsibility for what you do. I do not know if there has been any contact between the finance minister and the parties here, but that is what has actually happened. So it might be interesting to know what the Minister of Finance thinks when he talks about the need to tighten up. Last year, the necessary curtailment effect started at NOK 9 billion, was reduced to NOK 7.7 billion, and is now further reduced in the direction of a halving – if you want to interpret it in the best possible sense. But a number of these aren't cut, it's just funds you're timbering this year, which you have to fill next year. If I take that in the very best sense, half of the tightening effect is again. Shall we believe in the Minister of Finance next time he comes and tells us what is a necessary tightening effect, when we know that the definition of it is half-way after six months? That's not how we were used to having finance ministers in the old days – and that's not that long ago! Finally, I would ask the Minister of Finance to define what he means next year. Last year he said we were going down towards the European interest rate level next year. It's this year! True, it is the end of the year, but he cannot keep on saying next year every year!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1627	To take the last one first, I would like Per-Kristian Foss to document that last autumn I said we were going down towards a European interest rate level over the next year. I've never said that. But I've said it this year. Among other things, I have to TV 2 said that I still have the belief that Norwegian interest rates could come down to European level in the next year, and that is the year 2000 – so we should not be in doubt, next year it is the year 2000. Otherwise, I have not defined how close to the European interest rate level you could get. So Per-Kristian Foss finds it amazing that those who actually contribute to increasing the cost should also be responsible for assigning a corresponding impact. There has been no unreasonable claim in Stortinget earlier that those who contribute to expenditure increases must also try to contribute to the containment. If there are any new rules here, there must be some who have arisen this year. Per-Kristian Foss points to some funds that allegedly have been emptied. It's true that some income comes from a fund. And so Per-Kristian Foss says that's new, you didn't have to deal with former finance ministers. I remember, for example. In the autumn of 1996, when the Minister of Finance of the Labour Party at that time contributed to draining three funds, i.e. three times as many funds as we now have. So luckily, there's nothing new about that either. In terms of necessary tightening: I would say that what is necessary tightening is the market that judges best – I actually think better than Per-Cristian Foss. What, then, did the market think of the tightening we have now received since the government presented its revised budget, and after the suspension of the financial committee? Clearly, it has not lost its trust. The crown has strengthened, and the interest rate has fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1638	In contrast to many of the replicators here who complain that the tightening was not as strong as was shown last autumn, I would say that it is good. The balance point that the Storting is now about to adopt – the government has presented something similar – is the point that SV indicated last autumn. We meant that the tightening was too big. It wasn't as big as the government had wanted. It also helped to ensure that unemployment did not increase as much over the winter as there was reason to fear at that time. But what has also happened, which is the most important, and which everyone chooses to ignore, is that from November to December last year, until now, when the revision of the national budget, the oil price has risen by 6 or 7 dollars. It has helped to increase confidence in the Norwegian economy as it does. This has contributed to the fact that, fortunately, interest rates have gone downwards, and this has helped to stabilise confidence. It shows with all possible clarity that many of the exercises of the Stortinget and the Government, namely to operate in public budgets, because, as it is said, to maintain confidence in the Norwegian economy, are exercises that, at best, do not maintain confidence. Unfortunately, the oil price is overwhelming for the Norwegian economy. It has shown the autumn, the spring and the winter. What should then be the big challenge for the Storting and the Government is: how can we manage to have an economy that is less oil dependent, less vulnerable to fluctuations in oil prices? How can we order our own house forward in the next millennium without being so very dependent on whether the oil price is $16 or $10 the barrel? This is both the major fiscal challenge and the major challenge for the nation, for everyone knows that the oil and gas age will eventually end, and then the nation must have other legs to stand on. My challenge to the Minister of Finance is, what does he think? There is nothing in the budgets that he has so far put forward, which points to how we should make ourselves less oil dependent into the next century. On the contrary, both the real economy and the budgets show with all possible clarity the extreme oil dependency of the nation. That is our big challenge, and I would like to challenge the Minister of Finance on that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1647	The representative, Djupedal, points to the importance of the oil price for confidence in the Norwegian economy. I'll actually give him right. I tried in all modesty last year, as the pressure against the crown was enormously strong and it was necessary to round after a round of interest rate increases, to say that all of this can at least not be taken into account by the Government, because we do not have control over the oil price. At that time, this was clearly rejected by the opposition. It was called disclaimer and apology. That's why it's nice to hear that the oil price is now clearly an explanation for how things are going better, that the crown gets stronger, and that the interest rate can go down, so now at least there's a willingness to see that oil prices mean a lot. But I don't want to go, as Djupedal did, and devalue what we do domestically. There is no doubt that the financial policy pursued and the wage-earnings provided are of great importance to the market assessment of the Norwegian economy, and therefore to the question of the strength of the crown and the level of interest we receive. If Djupedal means it, it doesn't matter what we do domestically, and I guess he doesn't really do that inside, at least I'm going to deeply disagree with him in it. That's why we still have to hope, and I have good faith that it will happen, that you get moderate pay settlement next and later years, in line with the Arntsen committee's recommendations. And the government, with the assistance of the Storting, must ensure that we conduct a sufficiently tight fiscal policy, so that we maintain confidence. I am not blind to the fact that there is a need for some increase in public budget appropriations. How large they can be, we're going to evaluate when we're going to present the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1656	The finance minister claimed in her reply to Hill-Marta Solberg that she was wrong when she said that the tightening was more than halved since the national budget. It is the Minister of Finance who is wrong. On page 35 of the revised national budget, there is a very good overview. The starting point was that the government had put up 9 billion kroner, about 1 pst, in austerity, and then you have the point-by-point going through this on page 35, and ends up there with a tightening of 5.2 billion kroner before technical adjustments. Then the budget is weakened by NOK 0.5 billion here in Stortinget, and so the result is a halve of what the government originally provided. Now you can ask how interesting it is to discuss the type of technical budget indicators that this interest rate and activity-adjusted deficit is. But when it's important to be concerned with that kind of number, it's because it's about how fast and how much interest rates can come down. It is important for people, and it is important for the Norwegian economy. The government is pleased that it has brought interest down. So are we. But the starting point is that interest rates were set up very much first. Throughout the 1990s, Norway has been on an interest rate level in line with the other level of interest rates in Europe. Then we jumped up from above by 3 pst. in the autumn of 1997 to 8 p.m. And then the government has now gotten its interest rates down to 6 pst. But we're on the double side of what else is in Europe. The problem then is that budgetary policy is still weakening, because then it will take time for us to come back to the European level. So the finance minister says it's the opposition's fault. What's new is that the opposition has a tighter budget than the Government. It never happened before. The last time Restad was responsible for a budget in opposition, he weakened it by $8 billion. But now the government doesn't take responsibility for the deterioration, but blames the opposition. And the opposition denies responsibility, at least that part of the opposition that voted in favour of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1672	I think I'll start from behind in the themes. I will first reject Jens Stoltenberg's claim that the opposition did not previously have the same rigour in the budget lines as the government had. I haven't studied everyone else's, but in the Central Party's arrangement, for which I myself had a considerable responsibility, we always made sure to have the same rigour or budgetary balance as the government. What happened here in Stortinget is another matter. I have registered that the Workers' Party believes that more should be tightened up, and they do so theoretically with approx. 600 million. NOK, but this – and more than that – is due to the proposal to remove the cash support. That's just going to give a billion dollars. The Right too has strongly criticized us. For their part, they have a tighter budget line of approx. DKr 1.7 - 1.8 billion. But what helps as long as the two parties go together to increase the cost by 450 million? kr and do not find each other in containment? It is the adopted budget that counts, and not the theoretical budgets that each party operates. So the question is, how fast can you get at an interest rate level down to the European level? That's what I've said in the past that, for my part, I think could happen in the next year, if things don't come up unforeseeable. Interest rates have so far been in line with what the Government described in the national budget last autumn. If it continues to do so, you will be able to come down to European interest rates during the year 2000 — if there is still any doubt as to what the ‘next year’ is. So I guess Jens Stoltenberg is not very proud of the interest rate we received in his time as Minister of Finance. In 1997, a very low interest rate was achieved, but with the pressure already exerted in the economy, the reduction in interest rates helped to strengthen the pressure at that time. You might as well have neglected that interest rate reduction.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1685	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1689	Right now there's a lot going well, and we get to enjoy it. But political leadership is to ensure that short-sightedness does not get a foothold in society. That's when the future is created. This should be easier to understand than ever before. For the facts, it is clearly written: Norway needs to be more oil-poor, while several older people need care every year and are entitled to good pensions. Another fact is that business transitions are very fast. It's said that in 20 years, 80 pst. of the enterprises we have today have been closed down. That means we have to start about 200,000 new businesses in this 20-year period. These two challenges can only be met by pursuing a policy based on work and education. But what happens? The government manages from day to day without taking these long-term challenges seriously. The main goal seems to be to make us all sleepy under the old slogan 'Now everything is going so much better'. I also think that the Right Børge Burnde had a very good post about the need to think forward. It may be because he belongs to the younger age group, who is more interested in the future and is not involved in this short term. The ratio is that industrial employment again declines, for the first time in five years. Private consumption is growing strongly. The public budgets are inflated. The contraction, as pointed out here, is more than halved. The increase in expenditure will double and the use of oil money will double from the adoption of the budget until the mid-year review. The bourgeois parties in this hall are, in my opinion, again in the process of inflating a balloon that might burst. The working party has to ask: what happens if oil prices fall again? We had to ask about this all year, until you realized that you had to change. You hit your chest because interest rates are being lowered. First, we have a fiscal policy that almost triples interest rates, and then we get interest rates down by 2 pst, but they're still much higher than our trading partners. With the current fiscal policy, interest rates are likely to remain at too high a level, and the tone of the Minister of Finance is different now than they were just a few months ago. Government expenditure – expenditure growth – is not primarily used for what is forward-looking. 10 years of education is now being replaced by private school investmentBarnehage development is virtually halting. The kindergartens and the school leisure system are becoming so expensive that many people cannot afford to avail themselves of the offers.The government is passive and looks at parts of the industry slip into a crisis. It's actually the opposition that has to intervene. The misappropriation is increasing again. Last year, over 30 000 new job losses were made. Developments continue this year. Now it's about 10 pst. of the working-age population. Professionals have to face a significant tax increase when the large increase in the number of pensioners exceeds the turn of the century, if we have in the meantime weakened industry, if we have in the meantime pushed even more out of work, and if we leave off on the children and youth now. The Labour Party Governments made sure to bring the economy into a generational balance. Politicians who are not just living in the present but who are interested in the future should note that the revised national budget now states that there is no longer a generational balance in the economy. The way of the working party is therefore different from that of the large majority: The Labour Party will stimulate young people to take up education.The Labour Party will stimulate municipalities to invest in public schools.The Labour Party will stimulate everyone who can choose to work rather than social security.The Labour Party will make it easier for people to have work by investing in kindergartens and building on the parental leave.The Labour Party will take care of the industry we have, and will provide the basis for entrepreneurship, technological progress and worker empowerment. Governance in our days is primarily to ensure that work and education pay off. It's only when the future is secure. That's why the Workers' Party is going in to continue their efforts at public school. The Labour Party is not against private schools, but it cannot be a public task to finance private schools that undermine public schools. Public school is one of the most precious things we have in our society at a time when knowledge means more and more, and at a time when we need common meeting places for children and young people with different religious and ethnic backgrounds. We need to create more community. It's also what makes Norway a learning society. Learning is done in a good community. Therefore, the Workers' Party will also continue to invest in kindergartens. Kindergartens need to be cheaper and more accessible to everyone. Kindergartens are good for children and good for society. Kindergartens enable adults to participate in the workplace while being safe for their children. It is sad to see that the development of childcare is being privatised into an unbridled day-to-day market. Work for more is also the starting point for the proposal notified by the Workers' Party on a comprehensive redistribution of taxes. We'll give the low pay several thousand dollars in tax bills, so they can get more living off. This also makes it more profitable to go from social security to work. Those who today want to go from social security to a low-paid job experience either losing it, or they have little to earn from it. Therefore, it is good distribution policy to provide tax relief to the lowest income. It is also our policy to improve the economy and brittleness of youth. The best way to do this is to make schoolbooks cheaper and build more student homes. Several student homes will also be a necessary step to regain a social housing policy. The problem now is that there are too few dwellings, especially rental homes. Building housing for the tens of thousands of new students we've been given in recent years is therefore a double social housing policy. The Labour Party provided the young people with a place of study. Now we want to work to get the youth housing. The Workers' Party has had an impact on almost all of our efforts towards industry. We're happy about that. We've got more money for decentralised education, for more student homes, hospitals and kindergartens. In other words, some steps are taken in the right direction for work and education. But the majority is just moving a little bit. It's e.g. unintelligible that the Workers' Party does not receive a majority for 560 more courses in information technology. The first duty of a politician is to see the relationship between the present and the future. The societies of the future are created by those who live now. Generations must take care of each other in turn and orderly. The Labour Party must therefore consider youth and the future. If we are to create a society that is safe for those who built society, we must create opportunities for those who build society now. This is the relationship between the great effort we have to make in the care of the elderly in the years to come and work and education. Work and education must pay off – we must pursue a policy for it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1750	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1753	I would like to move on to a little more general things that relate to where the Workers' Party is now actually standing, and follow up a very interesting debate that was between the Labour Party and the Advance Party a few days ago. It's about the third way, which is an expression used in particular by Tony Blair in England. Both Jagland and Stoltenberg misunderstood and thought I was referring to Gidden’s book, and that was wrong. I referred to a joint statement by Tony Blair and Gerhard Schröder, which was presented fourteen days ago, entitled ‘The Third Way/Die Neue Mitte’. It's an eight-page document with a lot of political ideology and practical issues. My question to Thorbjørn Jagland is: Where is the Norwegian Labour Party and he in relation to this declaration, which is talking about the modern Social Democrats, and which is a settlement with former dogmatic social-democratic thinking, and whose political content is such that at least I can join the most important. The challenge is to find out where the Workers' Party and Thorbjørn Jagland stand. Among other things, it says: «We want a society which Celebrates successful entrepreneurs just as it does artists and footballers – and which values creativity in all spheres of life.» So you want a society that has the same positive view of those who create businesses, that have success in business and that's also doing very well, that you have on football stars and sports stars like our own bear Dæhlie and others. Does Thorbjørn Jagland agree with me and Tony Blair and Gerhard Schröder that it would make sense to change the Norwegian society, so that we also made it popular and profitable to create jobs even if you become rich?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1767	Carl I. Hagen isn't in the new middle, he's the new Right. I don't think Tony Blair or Gerhard Schröder would bring the Prom Party and Carl I. Hagen on his team. With regard to what is in that document, I can, for my part, sign every word. We do not need to make a settlement with the History of the Workers' Party, as one might, for example. has in England. Because we never became the old Workers' Party. The reason for this is that – as we said here in the Chamber a few days ago – the book on which the third road is based states that the Labour Party in Norway led in the modernisation of social democracy that was necessary. When it comes to entrepreneurship, I'm 100 pst. Agreed. If you want to set up many new businesses in Norway — some say you need 200,000 new businesses in the next 20 years — you can't do it without people making money on it. After the national meeting of the Labour Party, I became, for example, criticized that in the speech I gave there, I just said that capital is our friend. But it has to happen at the same time as creating social justice. This can be done primarily by securing people's work and education — especially education. Because if people are to be involved in technological development, they must have the opportunity to take the new jobs created in all these new businesses. And this is where the Progress Party fails so completely, because you don't get the means to bet on education, so that you get both entrepreneurship, create new businesses and social justice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1774	The representative of Jagland has expressed all this concern, not to use a stronger expression, about the economic policy pursued by the Government. And it's usually referred to both interest and unemployment rates in that context. Now it's going the right way both in terms of interest rate reduction and in terms of the development of unemployment rates so far, but with all the reservations we've expressed in the past. During the budgetary procedure last year, the representative, Mr Jagland, saw a completely different trend in unemployment than the one that actually happened. He's also used numbers that we're not completely figuring out. According to the government’s figures, by the end of the year there would be 30 000 more unemployed. We have repeatedly asked for an explanation of this, without success. Now we do not expect the Workers' Party to take the wave of the Government's proposals to the revised national budget, but after a brief and positive introductory remark, the representative Jagland is still back with the black paint that I also seem to have ashamed of this debate by the workers' party representatives. The Workers' Party's comment in the vote on the revised national budget states that: ‘The only measure taken by the government against increasing unemployment is to grant 400 million. kroner more for daily allowances.’» Does Jagland think that this is a comprehensive description of what is actually included in the budget? What about the suggestions we have with the Workers' Party to promote: 100 million. kr more for the petroleum industry, technology projects, DKK 3 billion for a nutrition fund, new ships to be put into production – just to mention something. Does the representative, Mr Jagland, think that these are also measures that have no significance for any increase in unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1788	The last two proposals mentioned by Steensnæs were proposals from the Workers' Party that the centre parties voted against in their time. We are pleased that they have included them in the Government's proposal, but I must say that I do not think it has any immediate effect on the problems in the oil industry and at our shipyards. There's word dry now, and leave and unemployment can come. It's actually already coming and will come beyond the year and into the next year. That's why we talked about unemployment. The government says unemployment is so low now – so what are you guys talking about? I've used Verdal as an example of what might happen. There's now full employment. Aker Verdal goes down, but they haven't had a single order since April. Then 1 100 people will go to unemployment, and then you see that it's not useful to argue with unemployment right now. The number 30,000 comes out in a very simple way. It's that the government writes that unemployment will go up to an average of 3.5 pst. this year. For it to be on average 3.5 pst. This year, unemployment must be around 4 pst. at the end of the year, and there are 30,000 more than that at the beginning of the year. We've stuck to the government's numbers. We hope that things will work better, but in the case of unemployment, I don't think you should hope. We have to fight unemployment, because the dynamics of the economy are so strong now. If it increases by 30,000 one year, we don't know if it can be 100,000 next year. That is what we saw in the 1980s, and painful experiences should indicate that we are taking action in time. I'm glad we've got the bulk of the population involved in many of our actions, but it's incredible that the centre parties haven't been involved in all of the actions we promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1795	Two things: first, the ideological debate on the third road that is now evolving. It's enough of the more fuzzy. If you see what both Schröder and Blair are doing, it's primarily to settle how social democrats have thought before. The most important thing is that one is no longer ‘old labour’, but admits that the social democrats were wrong on important points. So the question of what they've put in instead. There are things that the right-hand side has been talking about all along. The third way is in many ways a kind of scalpel to admit that the jam has the right side had the right side. So, Jagland says that what separates the third way from the solutions of the right is justice, and then he went up and talked about work and education. But there he is in the middle of what we've been talking about for decades after decades. Our entire business exposure is just a matter of creating jobs. And when it comes to education, there's no doubt that it's central to our message. But let me test what Iland is talking about. He talked a lot about education, and he'll have credit for it. But what does he really have to offer? Yes, what he has to offer is the fight against private schools. This very small part of the Norwegian school system has raised Jagland. But what else does he have? Why isn't he talking about the most important thing, the teacher resource? Why does he say no to the Right's proposal to spend more money on continuing training in this revised national budget? That's the central one. And how can he manage to talk about cheaper textbooks when at the same time, as far as I can see, he's an enthusiastic follower of the contract that makes the books more expensive than they should be. No, he's probably found a tiny little tab, and I think he's far from taking the very center of what Education Norway requires.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1804	I will not accuse the representative Jan Petersen of what I am about to say, but I have noticed that the characteristics of myself have changed somewhat in the bourgeois camp. For very many years I was responsible for the so-called modernisation of the Workers' Party. I had the impression that it was going to hurt Gro Harlem Brundtland a little, that she was not so eager about it. After I became a leader, you're told that there are actually some others who are responsible for that modernization. The fact is that the European Social Democrats have learned a lot from what Gro Harlem Brundtland and I started in the 1980s. It was in recognition of the arrival of new times and the need for new solutions. That's what the Force of the Workers Party is, that we adapt to the times that are there, and do not depend on instruments that are no longer usable. But that doesn't mean that the tools that were used were useless at the time they worked, but you have to change it all the time. I've noticed that the Right also talked about work and education every year, and we're happy about that. The right has had an overall perspective on society and politics, but we have disagreed on the solutions. But it is positive that both parties have had an overall perspective. In the case of private schools, it is a fact that they are now starting to create problems for public schools. There we disagree. We will give priority to public schools. We believe that is what will raise the level of knowledge in the population. If it is the case that private schools are not a problem, because they are so few, then I don't fully understand the argument, because you argue at the same time that the private schools are so very fine and necessary. Then the Right should go in so that there would be a lot of them, and then at least there would be a big problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1815	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1818	Iland stressed the need to have a future perspective for all the policies pursued. That is a starting point for political debate that I fully agree with. Actually, every time you ask yourself, what does this decision bring in 20 years? That is also what makes the situation so doubtful, that there is a political alliance in Norwegian policy that makes the centre, the Right and the Advance Party make their fourth budgetary settlement. We have to ask ourselves, is that how we want it for another two years? Then we can risk that what's put the most emphasis on is that no one is going to pay a penny more in taxes, no matter how rich they are, and that the price is going to be too bad a municipal economy and an increase in excess of the costs. In fact, those who pay the highest price for the cash support are the slightly larger kids. The reports from the municipalities show that it is cut down in relation to school and other measures for children and young people — also in relation to the SFO, the school leisure scheme, which the Stortinget has been directly involved in. Therefore, it is the slightly larger kids who pay for the cash support. In addition, we have a political situation where the government can plan for half a day at a time and circle around Carl I. Hagen's game. And if the government doesn't circle Carl I. Hagen, it's the Workers' Party that does. The Centre has chosen a side of Norwegian policy. That's the cash support they've put in front of all other cases, and that means per. Today's right-wing policy in all other areas as well. That choice must take responsibility for itself. I don't want them to blame anyone else. But I think they're too easy to blame on Jagland and the Workers' Party every single time. Around Christmas I did not think we heard anything else. Every time something was wrong with which the government parties were to blame, it was categorical: it's the fault of Jagland. If you have the courage and the strength and the desire to run a government, you have to take responsibility for the political alliance you form. Now the question is to SV and the Workers' Party: Should we also put the cash support in front of all other matters in the next two years in Stortinget? As SV sees it, we have three major challenges that we can't wait to solve. One is that differences in Norway are increasing. There are people who are struggling enormously in a prosperity society. On the other hand, there's someone who's getting a lot richer. Those who have income from dividends in shares have received a huge increase in recent years. It is likely to be redistributed in Norway. Not many billions are needed to eradicate poverty in Norway if there is a political will to do so. Secondly, there is a need for comprehensive school reform, especially in high school. When 25 pst. When the distance between the standard of what a lot of kids have at home and what they meet at school is a huge gap, and when we struggle with recruiting teachers and getting them to go on with enthusiasm in school, we need a huge reform. Thirdly, we need to make a course change in environmental policy. There is no country in Europe that spends as little on public transport as Norway. It notices people living in the cities every day. And it is especially noticeable to young people in the districts when they have to call Dad and ask to be picked up. In rural areas, there is a great deal of youth policy in relation to public transport. I wonder if it really is that the center parties disagree very much with each other about what partners they really want. When Christian People's Party and Kjell Magne Bondevik at the Christian People's Party's National Meeting say that they want to become the leading bourgeois party, it may be that the Christian People's Party wants to cooperate with the Right and the Advance Party, while the Center Party has other interests. So far they have actually managed to get away with the challenge it could have been, because of the cash support. What is the major challenge for the majority in this Chamber is whether it is possible to find some ways to cooperate, so that it is possible to address the main challenges for the future, or whether the next two years will continue to give the Right and the Advance Party more influence over Norwegian policy than the voters want. We've now spent $2 billion per person. year of cash support. Over a four-year period, it's almost $10 billion. It would fund a whole reform of high school. And with that, you could have solved one of the most important problems we're facing. It's to waste both time and money in relation to one of the big problems. The question is whether the cash support itself is not bad enough and whether the voters should have right-wing policies in the distribution policy, school policy and environmental policy on the purchase.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1839	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1843	I agreed very much on what Kristin Halvorsen said about the cash support. But Øystein Djupedal has, in a newspaper interview today, and to some extent also in articles in this debate, stated that it must be understood so that SV can now support the cash support. Now I think it's problematic for SV in relation to the purely family policy side of it. But that's what Djupedal has said that he's going to solve by staying too close to his nose. But that is perhaps also a concession to a kind of political argument that Kristin Halvorsen himself had in mind. The Labour Party has said at the crossroads it has been relevant that we are willing to talk about the cash support as well. But the government has set the ultimatum. The government has requested that the cash support be fully implemented. In other words, one of the key players in one of the government parties has prevented conversations with the Workers' Party, and, to that extent, SV, to find common solutions. It's regrettable in itself. But I do not think it can be resolved by the fact that in future negotiations and debates we shall bow to this ultimatum in this one field in relation to all the other areas that it is relevant to discuss. So, despite the fact that SV also has some interesting income proposals, I'm going to admit, it is that by binding up to over 2 billion kroner in annual transfers in this way, it would actually reduce our ability to conduct sensible child and family policies in other fields. Unfortunately, there is no sareptac. We must also deal with this in future budgetary procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1848	The working party and SV fully agree on the view of the cash support, and I believe that at the next decision to raise the money, it can be very possible for the parties that are opposed to cash support. I don't think most taxpayers find that they are going to be involved in financing a system that is such that anyone who doesn't choose kindergarten for their children, no matter what they choose as an alternative, is rewarded. But then the question is, should we leave it the case that prevents the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre parties from pursuing sensible policies in other areas during this process? It will never be such that SV will present a draft budget in which we support the cash support. But the question is whether we can manage to agree with the centre parties on a proposal for a redistribution from the kingdoms of Norway and to those who labor the most, for example. achieve a real boost in housing policy. And if we can manage to reach a political agreement on a secondary school reform, should we say no because of the cash support? Then it's even worse for those who depend on a more solidarity-sharing policy. I believe that the Workers' Party has become far too attached to the cash support. It's unfair, I think. The centre batches themselves have chosen to put it in front of everything else. But I think that the SV and the Workers' Party could challenge the centre government much more offensively by making some very clear political demands on something that could be measured in 20 years – less differences, better environment, proper school policy. Because then it became clear to everyone and everyone how expensive this cash support really is, how much longer we would have been able to get if you could take all or part of this cash support. I believe that both the Swedish Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party had become much more offensive in challenging what the Government is most plagued with, namely that it must conduct right-wing policies in almost all areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1857	I see SV as an important ally in environmental issues, and a bit of the point of the cash support was to help people with time squeeze and stress. All of this is related to the work of finding a different development from the hyperactive, environmentally destructive stress culture that we are living today. SV is the opposition party that clearly states that its objective is to reduce consumption for environmental reasons and for the purpose of distribution globally. The Christian People's Party also believes that this is very important. Yes, this is a big value question for our generation, and it's the really big development dilemma. The State budget has both short-term and long-term elements, which Kristin Halvorsen knows well from his time in the Finance Committee. SV criticises the government's environmental policy in the state budget, but if you look at our – the central parties – and the SV's proposals, it is perhaps the most technical and limited economic areas we see the difference. I believe that Kristin Halvorsen and SV will agree with me and the Christian People's Party that the work to reduce consumption in the rich world and reduce energy consumption, which is the twin brother of pollution, is an important part of realising the economy and development in a more sustainable direction. My question to the SV parliamentary leader is therefore: What factors, what is the focus on individual elements of the SV budget line, do you believe in achieving a reduction in consumption and energy consumption in Norway in practice? Does Kristin Halvorsen see any system errors in our economic system that make it difficult, perhaps impossible, actually to get something done with the long lines of the major environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1868	The President reminds us that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1871	First, some of the reasons for the cash support. Yes, I think many people didn't understand until it was introduced, what the cash support really was. I think many people thought it would be for parents and children to spend more time together, not to reward everyone who did not choose kindergarten. You can work 100 pst. and more than that and get cash support, just you don't have your child in a nursery. But what's the backside of a lot of people, as the community economy looks like right now, is that the kindergarten places are going to be so expensive. When we see what the municipalities report, it's that the kindergartens are going to be very expensive. NOK 3 800 was the price of a nursery, told a young mother I met not long ago. And what did that mean? Well, it meant that parents had to work more to cope with the expenses they had. So there you put in a cost application directly to the children's families that makes them have to hang more in the strap than they otherwise wanted. We need more reasonable and flexible kindergartens to meet the relationship that the representative Karlstrøm had with him. So to the slightly longer-term issues of energy policy. SV has the courage to add an increase in the electricity charge. The average price is 6 percent more reasonable this year than last year. And what we see is that what's increasing the most is the electricity consumption of private households. I think the Nordics had a lot to learn from just Danes, who turn off the light when they leave a room, and who are completely shocked by us because the light is flowing all the time. But then you can both use the price, and you can do as SV has suggested, get a loan through the energy company that you can pay down on the electricity bill, and in that way change the energy consumption of the house. This results in a long-term lower energy consumption without costing one more in investments in the first round. That's a good suggestion!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1880	Kristin Halvorsen was in his contribution concerned with the cohesion of the weak groups, and then we know that the fall in interest rates is important. How, then, does it rhyme that in their budgets, SV spends money on the economy so that the fall in interest rates becomes impossible? In fact, the SV's budget in the harvest was not worse than that they worsened the balance by just over NOK 4.5 billion. But in addition, some of the implications they had for their proposals, including: a cut in Defense of NOK 3 billion, which focused on investment, meant that the increase in activity in their economy would be close to doubling. It would ensure that families with children and others with large loans would continue to struggle with the high interest rates we had last year's harvest, and probably even higher interest rates. Kristin Halvorsen calls for a better community economy. If we remember the municipal economy in 1998, partly in 1997, there was a rather high growth in the economy of the municipalities, but much of this was eaten up because the temperature of the economy gave expansional wage settlements in the municipalities. There was nothing special left of it. So Kristin Halvorsen talks about the cash support, which today is something that you hold to your nose in SV, but which nevertheless should not prevent reconciliation. And she also says between the lines that the good thing about the cash support is the case where parents spend more time with the children. But how does it compare with the fact that the SV in its approach to the revised national budget, and the last harvest, says that it is quite okay to cut the cash support completely from August 1st? The parents who have taken leave from work, who do not have a job in the autumn because they want to spend more time with the children, would they, if SV's proposal were adopted, only be able to stand without a job and without the cash support money? Is that a good cohesion policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1891	The most important thing in its alternative state budget is to slow down the violent increase in private consumption and ensure that public services, such as school, health, kindergartens, etc., are in the process of growing. We are pursuing redistribution policies. It is the essential feature of SV’s policy. In the revised national budget, the SV’s proposal is in total DKK 1 billion in the improvement of the balance sheet compared to that adopted by the bulk of the population in the seventh and last part of this evening. So it's redistribution and not distribution that's the most important thing about SV's proposal. And we think that's actually very important, because if we take the 1990s over one, you can see that the increase in public consumption has been much lower than the increase in private consumption. They're schoolchildren, for example. meets every day, when you see how much worse the standard is at a lot of children's everyday life at school, compared to what they're used to at home. I think that if we can't get redeployed on it, many people are going to want to add a few extra heads and buy into a private school. I actually don't think that most people want to think that there's such a big standard difference. That is absolutely essential. Therefore, in terms of interest rate levels, SV’s proposals will not vary greatly from either the Right or the large majority here. In addition, we think that you could be more offensive in terms of cutting interest rates. So in the case of cash support, it's clear it would mean problems for people if you were to get a majority here, surprisingly, to remove the cash support from August 1. But we believe that it is a significant matter to show how those crowns could otherwise have been used for things that the families of children are concerned about. This is essential in the SV’s proposal. You actually have choices between other ways of doing it, which would create more flexibility in the economy of families with children.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1900	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1903	After listening to the debate here today, one must be able to state that the centre parties believe that the situation in Kommune-Norge is very well. This is despite the fact that 1998 is the worst year for municipalities throughout the 1990s, and 1999 appears to be even worse, all this while the Central Party has had – and has – the Municipal Minister. Kindergarten development has stopped, prices are getting worse, school leisure arrangements have become much more expensive, which means that parents have to take their children out, and public schools in some municipalities are being reduced or reduced for the benefit of private schooling. At the same time, there are many municipalities that have difficulties in paying the costs in order to take out the necessary money for health and the elderly. Of course, it is a step forward that the government is now giving more money to the elderly, but it does not help much if the municipalities do not have the opportunity to add the proportion to the pot, which they need to get out that money. It is against this background that the Labour Party has proposed to strengthen the local economy – more free resources and more investment in kindergartens and schools. It's interesting that the Center Party and the government parties will not be involved in this, but choose to cooperate with the Right Party and the Advance Party. The progress party has even said that they have no commitment to the municipalities – for those who should be surprised at it! And that's maybe why the representative Holte thinks it's a little troubling and that's why we've had a little bit of an easy way of dealing with the facts, as we've heard from this pulpit earlier today. Among other things, he said: in the context of the debate on the municipal structure next year, which we had two days ago, that there was full support for the government's arrangement. This is actually wrong. If the representative Holte had read the setting and heard the debate, he would have discovered it. For the Workers' Party has stated clearly that the municipal structure presented by the Government is too poor. We have to grant at least NOK 1 billion more for the next year to provide the service we believe is right. In addition, we have said that we need to have a better distribution between municipalities. We don't want the way the Center Party is going to add up to now, that children and young people are going to pay the bill so that the richest of us are going to be even richer. So the representative Holte said that low interest rates are important for the municipalities, and he used it as an argument that the Central Party has not given more to the municipalities. Yes, it's clear that low interest rates are important for municipalities, as they are for most people. But the Central Party could have been on a scheme that would have made us not have had the level of interest we have today, which could have made interest rates lower, and that at the same time we had more in real transfers to the local government sector. But it has been removed by the Central Party and the Government, and I expect the party's representatives to be upright in relation to it. And I would have asked that the Workers' Party be taken to income for a municipal scheme that we have clearly stated is far too bad. The representative Holte also said that the centre party should be to trust the municipalities, and that the centre party is predictable and recognizable. To that, I just want to carefully quote the central party rapporteur, Thor Tøllefsen, from Karlsøy, who said the following about the state budget for this year: ‘Now a limit has been reached for fraudulent action against the party’s own voters. For it is nothing less than a betrayal, if the State Councils of the Party are to accept the use of 3 billion. kr. for cash support for young children’s parents, while the districts and municipality of Norway will be destroyed at the same time.’;» It does not seem to me that Thor Tøllefsen and other central party rapporteurs I meet recognize their own party. Instead of accusing the Workers' Party that we create uncertainty and are irresponsible because we say that we will give more money to the municipalities for the rest of this year and for the next year. We in the Labour Party do not think it is to create uncertainty or to be irresponsible when we say clearly that we want to build more kindergartens, we want to bring down the prices in kindergartens and in the school leisure system, we want to strengthen the public school, and we want to make sure that the elderly get their necessary nursing homes and nursing homes when they need it. That the Center Party has a different view of this, we just have to take note.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1925	The starting point for this debate is the revision of the adopted budget for 1999. When I mention this, it is because there are a number of proposals in the position that the Progress Party has not joined despite the fact that the proposals are in line with the policy of the Progress Party. So we mean that, for example. major changes in taxes, levies and appropriations which are not justified by actual changes in the conditions following the adoption of the budget are outside the scope of this treatment. But the government is trying to get some grip that the Progress Party seems to be serious. In particular, there is reason to respond to the proposal to remove the capital grant of 150 million. kr., with a justification that has actually crumbled up during the Committee's proceedings. The starting point was a tax case in which it was estimated that the municipality of Oslo owed SEK 128 million. NOK 22 million to be deducted. kr, because the Municipality of Oslo has a relatively high level of income and because the Government has a general budget need for coverage. When it was seen on 4 June this year, in the middle of the discussion in the committee, a letter came from the Minister of Finance saying that the calculations were probably wrong and that the correct amount would probably not be 128 million. kr, but at the base of 50 mill. kr, this will be with respect to report for unprofessional. The capital grant entered in the budget for this year should be a partial compensation for Oslo's loss of income on transition to State corporate tax. Removing this now, in the middle of the year, is, however, completely unreasonable, not least because all the other municipalities that are in the same situation, which are therefore liable to taxes on the Hydro companies, are going to have this tax debt extinguished. The Progress Party will, of course, be voting against this proposal. As regards the reduction in grants to nursing homes and nursing homes, which we attended in the autumn, this was based on estimates from the Government on the actual activity of the municipalities, and not on any request from us to postpone the implementation of the plan. That these figures turned out to be incorrect, and that the plan now seems to be able to be implemented within the original timeframe, we look at it as positive. But it is also important that the municipalities that do not do it can now get a little longer time. The Progress Party has been working for many years to obtain price financing in, among other things. the health care system. With ISF, effort-driven funding, we've come a long way. The system has been a success. The activity has increased and no adverse effects of the scheme have been identified. However, it has been unfortunate that the system for registering patients, diagnosis and treatment arrangements is not so clear that errors can be avoided. If this is not cleaned up, it can help to damage the reputation of input-based funding, which would be unfortunate for the Norwegian health system, with 300,000 patients in hospital queues. I interpret it as meaning that when the majority in the vote believes that there should be a settlement for the effect of registration conversion, and that this should be used as a basis for the settlement for 1998, and further assume that the Government will return to the Grand Duchy with the necessary proposals for allocation in the autumn of 1999, this means that county municipalities will have the benefits they have. The Progress Party considers that today's budgeting system leads to unacceptable rationing of health services and that cap. Item 60 has to be converted into an estimate. It is a view shared by the majority of the Committee, all except for the Socialist Left Party. The next step must be to increase the share of the price per unit to at least 60 p.m. and to direct the price of the unit to the hospitals, as proposed by the Progress Party. In this way, we will be able to have a less complicated system and more predictable budgeting arrangements for hospitals. Finally, some words about the municipal economy, and then I keep Oslo outside. The Workers' Party proposes to increase the framework grant to municipalities above 60. kr, and suggests that this should be able to solve problems in the kindergarten sector and in the school leisure system, while at the same time making it easier for municipalities to make use of the earmarked grants within, among others. care for the elderly and health plans. Of a total municipal economy of about SEK 200 billion, this represents 0.5 per million. It's like giving you 200,000 kroner in annual wages and salaries 100 dollars in wages and salaries. It's at best symbolic and will hardly solve anything. At the same time, the Workers' Party is opposed to allowing municipalities to outsource parts of their tasks in order to save the multiplicity of funds. Get it, whoever can.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1948	There are some people who have wondered that the Right has moved so much in this revised national budget and have tried to use some sort of formal procedure that it should not be done. But I would like to stress that when it's done, it's because it meets one of the most central objectives of the year's budget, what the government itself called its overall goal, and that was to keep tight. And if you're going to achieve what the government called its overall goal a year ago, you're actually going to have to grips with the magnitude that the Right has done. The interest rate is in the right direction, but we are still significantly above the European level and the approach is coming out in the future. It must therefore be emphasised that for each day these differences exist, for every day the interest rate does not come down further, individuals, enterprises and municipalities pay more than necessary. That's why we thought it was right to maintain this overall goal. There has been a little talk about the negotiations that have been held. To that it is to say that there have not really been any negotiations. The talks we have had with the government parties have been about getting the government parties to make proposals in accordance with the agreement we entered into last autumn. This is why the defence was created, as far as input-driven funding of hospitals is concerned, and as far as the police are concerned. That is not really negotiations, it is simply correcting errors in the budget. But we must note with disappointment that the government parties have not been willing to enter into real negotiations on the things we wanted to put on the table, for example. meeting the overall objective underlined by the Government last year. We just have to note that, and it is strange that the Minister of Finance is robbing the Storting of the final result, when the government parties themselves have not been willing to take any action to meet that situation. In this way, the Minister of Finance underlines the role of the Government as a secretariat rather than a leading body, and it has been one of the objections to the way in which the Government Parties have managed their mandate. Although much is going better, I agree without a doubt with Mr. Thorbjørn Jagland that it must not make us put shortsightedness in the driver's seat. The problem is that when developments are going in the right direction, you get so absorbed and excited about this, you forget that there are some important steps that need to be taken for the future, and in our budget line such steps have been taken for the future. We stress that we need to invest more in Norwegian school. Only to a limited extent can the school be improved through more money, but in the core area money is, in fact, also an important factor, and the core area is raising the status of the teaching profession and improving the situation of teachers. Therefore, more money for continuing training is part of what is in the proposal. I think the Workers' Party is on completely wrong track when they make the fight against private schools the big point. In reply, Mr. Jagland said to me instead that he could not understand why we put such emphasis on the importance that private schools could have when they were so few. But it's kind of like the salt in the pot. It's necessary to have it there, but it has a function even if you don't put up a whole kilo, yeah, maybe the point just isn't to put up a whole kilogram. We focus on infrastructure, on road construction. I notice that the center part of the papers goes in for this, but it's in the papers. In this area, too, the Government doubles. In practice, they do nothing in this area. We take seriously that we lose market shares and we make proposals to improve the competitiveness of the base. In that area, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party agree, and the Government has its usual belief in having opinions on this until next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1971	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1974	I agree without a doubt with Jan Petersen in the fact that the fact that the various cross-cutting majority are now making this budget more expansive in terms of revision is the full responsibility of the government parties. To have an overall budget now under the revised national budget, it is clear that there must be a clear responsibility on the part of the Government and on the part of the government’s support players in the Stortinget. An opposition cannot assume total responsibility for the economy if the Government and the government parties themselves do not. However, in a number of crossroads, the Right has just entered into binding budgetary arrangements, at the latest during the last harvest budgetary procedure. Then you will probably have had too much good right-wing policy – that is, I know you have – but you also have to take responsibility for the overall results. And that was when the budget balance for this year got its first serious deterioration. We have had a situation where measures against a workshop industry that has black holes in the order books in the future have started too late. We have seen that increasing problems with transit and border trade continue to increase in my home country. This has a substantial part of the responsibility for, not because the Right did not have other primary positions, but because the Right's internal priorities compared to a compromise made this one willing to sacrifice. I know that it may be bad to hear, but it actually also applies when you bow to the parliamentary powers, as it happened here at these times last year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1981	Of course, I agree without further delay that what we vote for, we should also take responsibility for that. In the short term, much is going better in the Norwegian economy, and I believe that not least the budget decision we received in the autumn has contributed to this. One thing is that we kept about the tightness that was – it wasn't a big difference – and if I don't take very much wrong, the Workers' Party has accepted that this level was not so bad after all. But I also want to emphasize that we got our tax profile through. I think that has actually been very important because the payroll we got now became as favorable as it was, because the price impulses that the government had backed into the budget, of course, were not there. So we think that we have every reason to take part of the credit because things are going in the right direction. But I share the concern about the future that Thorbjørn Jagland also expressed. It is therefore necessary to ensure that we maintain what we achieved during the harvest. One of the reasons we have made such major changes was the need to maintain the tightness of the budget. That is why we wanted to enter the negotiating position with the government parties – which they did not want to enter. Just in the interests of the border trade, as Mr Thoresen spoke about, we now have concrete proposals on that point, and we believe, for example, in contrast to the Progress Party, that this is such an urgent challenge that we should do something now, and not be shielded from purely formal rules on what should really be done in a budgetary audit. So we believe that the way we now handle the audit ensures the valuable and the good in what we achieved in the harvest. And then we have to be able to look beyond the day, just to continue on the right course.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e1992	In particular, there are three minority proposals from the Progress Party, which I am surprised in many ways that the Right has not joined. The first concerns a proposal to ask the Government to propose to convert input-based financing of care for the elderly. What is the reason why the Right cannot expect to have an investigation of such a system, when the Right in all its arguments relating to the care of the elderly is also concerned with the outsourcing of competition in this area? Furthermore, there is a minority proposal to ask the Government to set out different models for the reorganisation of the Social Security Fund, to look at the ownership structure in Norway, at the management of Norwegian capital, and not least at how to resolve future pension obligations. This should be an important point for the Right too, and it might be a little bit surprising that they don't agree with it. So to the third proposal. It is a matter of asking the Government to explain in which areas Norwegian legislation and Norwegian framework conditions differ significantly from those of the EU, thereby directly hindering the development of industry because Norway remains in line with developments in the EU. It would be interesting to hear Jan Petersen's explanation of why the Right has not endorsed these three proposals, which therefore have no impact on the current year's budget, but which will be important steps and important leads both for the state budget for the year 2000 and not least into the new millennium.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2005	I'll tip that I'm now going to be heard terribly arrogantly, but I must honestly admit that precisely these investigation proposals to the Progress Party are not what has been at the top of my pile when we have dealt with questions in the revised national budget. There is a rather remarkable difference in approach between the Progress Party and the Right in terms of this budget. On the right, we put on the table a number of proposals for action now, we will do concrete things – for example. in the case of cross-border trade, where we charge the taxes on alcohol. And what is the Progress Party – the party that once existed to combat state bureaucracy – coming along? Well, they ask us why we can't be involved in investigations! They are heard something like the Bondevik government, which is facing all the challenges of investigations rather than actions. I'm going to look at these suggestions now, but you're big all over the world, this is far from what should now be done. Indeed, there are concrete proposals to meet the challenges that should be adopted today. So the party of progress is turning away, and then later they're like investigation is action. You great world, in that party there has been a strange development!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2016	Jan Petersen was concerned about the tightness of the budget. I have to remind you that when the government presented its revised national budget, the Norwegian krona strengthened, and when the decision from the committee was taken, we first got an interest reduction, and then a further strengthening of the Norwegian krona. So we have to be able to assume that the market has at least reacted positively to both the revised national budget of the Government and the current state of play. Otherwise, I was actually going to give honor to the Right Leader for the co-responsibility that Right after all has taken for a difficult period. But there must also be a somewhat conditional honor, because the Right's alternative in the revised national budget is truly a study worth studying. Some of the cuts proposed by the Right are, in my opinion, quite unprofessional and, to a large extent, unacceptable for the centers. For what should one say when the Right proposes 330 million? SEK in SND cut and food development, SEK 540 million. UK$500 million for aid, half a billion for aid. NOK 860 million in a negotiated agricultural agreement. kr i cut, stencil, relative to administrative expenditure? My question is: Who else than the Advance Party believes Petersen can imagine swallowing this bait? These are proposals which, as I said, are totally unacceptable to the centre parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2025	I thought it was nice what the representative Jacobsen said about co-responsibility. And that's right, we were involved in the budget negotiations last year just to contribute to the common good. And then we have to record that when the budget was to be revised this year, we were not in the position to negotiate. The only thing we got in position for was to hit the table and say that now at least you have to reset the budget to what we agreed on last year. But we didn't come anymore. We would have wanted to go into and talk about several things that should be done, because there are some things that are going to slip out between our fingers if we don't address this now. And then I want to repeat the warning given by Thorbjørn Jagland, that now we have to make sure that we don't get so excited about some things going in the right direction that we leave short-sightedness in the driver's seat. I'm sorry, I'm afraid there's a problem with the Government's proposals. With regard to the proposals that now Jacobsen deeply disagreed with, I have to say that I think he describes in a perfectly exemplary way, but a sad way, why it is so difficult to make necessary repriorities in relation to what are the main tasks of Norwegian society. Yes, it is precisely this lack of willingness to move that makes us lacking in the school system, missing in road construction, missing in the police, missing in the defense, in short, in what is our core areas. It's so hard to re-prioritize because they're not so realistic, because, among other things, The center party has so little courage to do something other than what they did last year. That's why our task of trying to break new ground in these areas is so important, it's just to get us out of the watershed and finally try to prioritize the public funds for the tasks that are the most important.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2034	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2037	There is reason to worry about employment developments in individual sectors in Norway. This is particularly true of the oil-related sector, that of the shipbuilding industry, and that of the construction sector. The government has submitted a revised budget without any specific measures to meet it. Instead of seeing the problems in the eye, they focus on explaining the realities. It helps people who are, or will be, permitted or laid off, very little. They need to know that the active measures are being inserted. Some measures need to be taken in the short term to prevent dramatic job losses; other measures need to be more long-term. Minister of Finance Restad said on the presentation of the revised budget that all the arrows to point up pointed upwards. He must have forgotten the number of unemployed, or does he think that it is good for the Norwegian economy to solve the path, and that the unemployed and the out-of-work should pay for this in the event of unemployment? I hope that's not the case. It will never be the Workers' Party's way. The working party has taken the development of the suppressed industries for a very long time. We went against the reduction in yard support in 1997 and 1998, we went against the increase in CO2 tax on Norwegian base in 1998 and otherwise against all proposals for additional taxes on industry. We have worked hard to provide a business package in connection with the revised national budget. We have done so in cooperation with the deferred industries, and proposals for action have been well received. The package contains items that are important both in the short and longer term, e.g.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t Increase the licenses for the renewal of fishing vessel increments for the renewal of ferry space construction of inland waterway vessels to the «G» vessel. O. Sars’ increases the licenses for fishing harbours to allow student buildings to grow in the SND and to control arrangements for the removal of investment fees for the construction and upgrading of water power plants in two additional years of employment – 4000 more places In addition, action will be taken against the petroleum industry, a region of other speakers have done well before. Work and education for all are the most important distribution policy tools we have. In addition to securing income and well-being for the individual, it ensures income for our common well-being. The transformations in society are increasing, and we must constantly develop and renew our business life. We do that by using, maintaining, further developing and renewing our common competence. That's what we do by making it easier for Ideas and innovators. We do that by investing in research and education. This is what we do with active measures. But we don't, as the government and government party largely add up, by sitting us down, closing our eyes and hoping that things will go all the way over. The working party is pleased to have a number of measures in place. Let me mention the construction of several ferries, fishing ports, kindergartens and student housing as well as reduced fees for the construction and upgrading of hydroelectric power plants. In addition, we're in a multiple for increased racial protection. All of this is good in itself. In addition, there is employment in deferred industries, not least in the hard framework of the shipbuilding industry, where permit notifications have begun to tick out. I would also like to mention the fact that we have a multiplicity for higher frameworks for research and development contracts, for decentralised education and for control of the windmill industry. Research and development work is an institution for future jobs, and differential control can help create and secure important jobs in District Norway. I'm sorry that the government party is not involved in securing multiples to stop the decline in SND's development contracts. The loans have been halved since 1997, and the funds for the current year will hardly be available during the summer. This is to stick your head in the sand. The government's party is opposed to most of the measures I have mentioned. They may still be passive, waiting and hoping for better times. They close on one side of reduced industrial employment and increase unemployment and concentrate the debate on whether speech is right or not. On the other hand, they increase the amount of daily money. The working party's alternative is active action and 4000 new action places. I hope that the 'light of the explanation' will shine over the government during the summer and give them the necessary insight, so that we can see a more forward-looking and active budget proposal in the meeting of the autumn. These are not questions of black paint, these are questions of having a realistic and forward-looking policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2093	The treatment of the 1999 revised national budget by the Grand Duchy shows that the central government has succeeded in the economic structure presented last autumn. Less than a year ago, the economic situation in Norway was dramatic. Turbulence in the international economy, an extremely low oil price and the aftermath of a costly wage settlement led to pressure on the Norwegian krona and a high level of interest rates. The government was willing to put pressure on it by proposing a reduction in the government budget of nearly DKK 9 billion to restore stability in the Norwegian economy as a basis for a lower interest rate. At the end of this landfill session, we can state that the confidence in the Norwegian economy has been regained. Norway's Bank has lowered the signal rate four times in five months, the crown is still strong, Oslo Børs has strengthened by over 25 pst. during 1999, and by the end of May, the unemployment rate was approximately 1,800 lower than a year ago — contrary to what the pessimists predicted last autumn. Of course, it should not be put under a chair that increased oil prices have contributed to ‘lubricating’ the positive economic trends. However, it is also part of the story that the government has taken steps to ensure that Norway takes part in the production cuts that have contributed to the strong increase in the oil price. In order to complete the economic picture, we must not forget that cooperation with the social partners on a moderate wage settlement has also contributed to the Norwegian economy being ‘healthy’ when Stortinget is taking a vacation today. Of course, the honor of the economic stabilisation process must be shared with several, mainly those opposition parties which in the United Kingdom have been willing to share responsibility for a tight economic structure, but also with the social partners, which have contributed to moderate wage developments as a basis for continued strong competitiveness. Compared with last year’s treatment of the revised national budget and the 1999 government budget, there has been little dramaticity in the budgetary audit of the year. The central parties found it appropriate this time to seek alternating cooperation with the opposition parties in Stortinget in order to find common solutions. The revised budget for 1999 shows a marginal deviation from the Government’s proposals. The market has responded positively to the tightness of the Government’s arrangements and the moderate changes that resulted from the treatment of the Storting. In other words, the basis is for a further fall in interest rates in the second half of 1999. The year 1999 will go back to history as a tough year of contraction. There is no reason to hide that the restrictions have had their price. But the economic gain, which is the result of tight fiscal policies, is also significant. In the revision of the 1999 budget, it can be safely established that the government’s choice of line in economic policy has been sound. However, within a tight budget, it has been possible to carry out important policy tasks for distribution. The centre party is satisfied that the elderly bet is continued, that the new health reforms are on track, that the community is protected, and that the strong district bet is mainly ensured. In addition, there is reason to commend the Government and the majority of the population for their willingness to support humanitarian efforts in the context of the Kosovo war. The central government, in my opinion, has shown a power of action and a governance it respects. Even on a narrow parliamentary basis, the Government has been given an impact on an economic structure that has restored confidence in the Norwegian economy. When the central government at the end of the spring session can show good results, this is due, inter alia, to: that the Centre has chosen a cooperation line that has made it possible to find good solutions by an alternating majority in the EEA. For the central parties, the political accounts that the Government can present at the end of the session will be a good starting point for the forthcoming election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2117	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2120	I feel impelled to say first that when debates in this Chamber are heard by the parliamentary leaders of the government parties, there will be a sort of hallelujah vote in the Chamber. It's like just "amen" missing. It's huge that you're pouring out "hallelujah" in relation to the government. There might be a lot of reasons why that's needed. Otherwise, something strange has happened over the Center Party. Before the party was part of the Bondevik government, the Central Party was the party that presented constant challenges to the Workers' Party for a better distribution policy. It was a sure confrontation in any political debate that the Central Party almost saw it as its task and its role to keep the Workers' Party in mind in the policy of distribution. We all remember it. Now the Center Party is rarely talking about distribution policy. In this way, the representative Johan J. Jakobsen was more like an accountant to mention in the post we heard. It might be understandable, not least because there are a lot of people who notice the impact of the negative distribution policy that the central government has been pursuing together with the Right Party and the Advance Party. They note that those who do not receive kindergarten, those who do not have the right to a school holiday scheme when the cuts are carried out by the Government, those low-wages who are deprived of the entitlement to sick pay and those families with children who have received an interest rate of NOK 15 000. Now there is a distribution message, also called the ‘distinction message’. I would like to challenge Johan J. Jakobsen and the Central Party: does Jakobsen and the Central Party at all see any opportunity to reverse developments in distribution policy, if the Central Party and the rest of the Government continue to settle the budgets together with the Right and the Advance Party? Or do Johan J. Jakobsen and the Central Party agree that there is another alliance where the Workers' Party must be established to ensure a better distribution?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2131	I find it hard to understand that Hill-Marta Solberg could perceive my post as a hallelujah. In fact, I believe I made it clear that the tough tightening policy we've been through has had its high price. I also think, once you've taken that burden, that it must be allowed to rejoice that the economic arrows are now essentially pointing in the right direction. With regard to the question that Hill-Marta Solberg raised, namely, about the central party's involvement in the distribution policy, I actually used a part of my contribution to say that I am satisfied that the elderly effort is to be continued, that the new health reforms are on track, that the community structure is protected, and that the strong regional policy effort is also mainly taken care of. In fact, I believe that all these sectors of practical policy have to do with distribution policy. So it's quite right, as the representative of Solberg says, that a balancing message is now to be presented. It happens in exactly one week from today. Since the representative of Solberg is so concerned that the Centre Party should seek other alliances, I must remind you that the basic material at the bottom of this Cohesion Communication is the development of the distribution policy up to 1997. This includes not least the period during which the Workers' Party has been in charge of the country. What is the reality, which is the picture that will emerge from the basic material, is that during this period we have had a development with a strong increase in the differences in Norwegian society. That is the challenge we are now taking in the new Cohesion Communication, and that is the challenge that this government – I feel quite sure of that – will face in an offensive way, so that we can have a development that can help mitigate the development of the inequalities that we got, not least during the reign of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2142	Since the representative Jakobsen has been under quite a lot of attack, I thought I would bring some words of comfort. I have recorded that in the course of the debate, the Senter party has presented itself as the municipality's best friend. As a long-term municipal politician and still active on that front, I think it is fun to announce that it is not as miserable in all the municipalities in the country. In the municipality from which I come – I have not thought to say which one is afraid that the municipality will subsequently be punished for it – it is actually such that it is a cross-political understanding that the local economy is good. It is true that all primary schools are built up and renewed in relation to the 6-year reform, the development of all secondary schools is financed, and it is largely a satisfied population with the services provided by the municipality. It's just a problem: when it comes to securing the profit this year, which is likely to be quite big, we get an interest rate drop. The municipality will lose considerable money on that. Then I ask myself, what makes it like for some municipalities, while for other municipalities it's catastrophic? I've found two explanations. One is that in the municipality I am now talking about, there has never been a socialist who has had his fingers out of the budget – not at all! The second explanation must be that this municipality has never raised more loans than it has had money in the bank, so it has always been plus on the financial statements. There are probably a lot of municipalities that haven't had it like this. My question is, can there be spending-seen politicians from many parties who have borrowed to find out, which means that Municipality-Norway is largely in bad shape today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2153	Let me first say that the Central Party and I do not today when we are dealing with the revised national budget, feel a great need for the word of comfort from the Progress Party. We believe that economic development over the past six months has been so positive and the economic results of the policies that have been pursued have been so positive that we do not need any words of comfort from the Progress Party. Now the Monsen said that the situation in Kommune-Norway is not as miserable everywhere, and that's probably a right picture. But when the Monsen adds that the municipal economy is generally good, I have to say that there is a statement you have to include up to several reservations. The centre party has never hidden the fact that the municipal economy is difficult for the time being, and that Kommune-Norge has also had to be involved in taking part of the necessary steps to improve the stability of the economy. But then we have the situation that 2 pst. interest rebates in 1999 — only half a year — correspond to a relief for Kommune-Norway of the order of DKr 1.2 billion. So the central party really has a pretty good conscience about the line we've been leading towards Kommune-Norway. I also know that the municipality to which Monsen clearly referred is probably an exceptional municipality, which, according to Monsen, is losing on the positive interest rate reduction we've had in the last six months.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2162	As far as the districts are concerned, the Central Party is very positive in its review. Especially Jørgen Holte was there in his post. This has also resulted in their having had numerous proposals for district parcels, because they have a goal of maintaining their housing everywhere. The last package contains, inter alia: positivity agents and women-sitting measures, including: in the fishing industry. According to the Danish State Council, the district packages are now being translated into concrete projects, and it is displayed in a newspaper post in Nordlys enthusiastically as a project in Nord-Troms, where measures to make young people live, train and work in Nord-Troms are to be found. At the same time, the representative Ringstad goes out with a harrowing criticism of the government's policy on transport and says that it is not useful to spread some money on women-settled measures and positive agents without the business being life-creating. And she also points out that the major rural policy needs to be put in place in the run-up to small-scale rural policy. Road appropriations are too small, the industry in the districts depends on good roads to cut distance costs, she claims. This has long claimed and suggested, but that invitation has not been received by either the Government or the Government parties. Road construction is good rural policy, good employment policy and good industrial policy. But then the parliamentary leaders Johan J. Jakobsen and Einar Steensnæs also agreed that the road budgets are too tight, while parliamentary leader Gunnar Kvassheim says that the Minister for Transport has worked hard to increase the budgets, but that it is the Stortinget that has to be criticized for not being bigger. Now I have to ask Jakobsen: does he agree with the criticism of the district policy that the Central Party is now running by the representative of Ringstad?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2173	It is quite right, as Kjellaug Nakkim says, that the Central Party, both in the Grand Duchy and in the Government, has seen it as an important objective to strengthen district policy. It has, among other things, as a result of which the regional policy effort for the current year, measured in the traditional way through the budget envelope, is the largest in nearly 10 years this year. At least it was initially, and that frame has been slightly adjusted. As far as transport policy is concerned, there is no need to hide – and it has a little to do with what I said in my reply to Hill-Marta Solberg earlier today – that when we are in the situation that we need to re-establish stability in the economy and have to make cuts of NOK 9 billion, it is not possible to avoid the fact that also such a large and resource-intensive sector as the transport sector is affected by it. We have seen 1999 as a difficult year for transportation. I have also expressed a great deal of understanding of the impatience publicly expressed by the Central Party member of the Committee on Transport. That is why the parliamentary leaders of the central parties have also said that it is important to upgrade the transport policy in the time to come, and I have great expectations that this will happen. In the case of the Right Option, we cannot look at the Right Transport Options without looking at how the Right Finances this. And then I have to go back to the line exchange I had with Jan Petersen earlier. With DKK 0.5 billion cut in a negotiated agricultural agreement, with SEK 330 million. I think, when these district-oriented measures are used to finance other district policies, that the right should be a little lower on the ground when a commitment is made to the relatively limited proposals contained in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2184	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2187	We have got a good deal out of the debate on the revised national budget, and many speakers from the Labour Party have presented our alternative. I'll try to comment on some of the claims that have come from speakers from other parties. First of all, a manifest misunderstanding from the Minister of Finance: in the line-and-line exchanges following his intervention, he claimed that when the Central Party was in opposition, the economic structure proposed by the Government had always been balanced. That's not right! It's been wrong for many years while the center parties were in opposition. I am particularly familiar with the work on the budget that we adopted in the autumn of 1996, and the revision of the same budget in the spring of 1997. Then we talked about decreases in the amount of NOK 8-9 billion net, after we had taken into account what the center parties called containment. Grossly, there was a lot more than that. But then we had included everything that was suggested by the containment proposals from, among other things. The centre party, and then there was still a decline in the order of DKK 8 billion in the autumn of 1996 for 1997 and in the same order of magnitude when we were going to revise the same budget. Now the situation is completely different, so now the situation is that you have opposition parties on the Stortinget that propose more responsible budgets than the Government. Nevertheless, the Government does not manage to maneuver itself in such a way that they have budgets adopted that are responsible. On the contrary, budgets are weakened every time they are dealt with in this House. It shows that the Government does not have the managerial capacity necessary to get responsible budgets through. That is why we have been weakened, both through the budgetary procedure last autumn and through the revision now in spring. The second point raised by several speakers from the government parties is that the centre parties were so serious in the situation of the workshop industry. Well, what's obvious is that they didn't see it last year, and then the oil price had begun to fall. The problems were already announced, and last autumn many of us spent a lot of time talking through the debates saying the following: We see a two-part development in the Norwegian economy. There is high temperature, good development in the total economy and in most industries, but there is a risk of setback and increasing unemployment, especially in the coastal engineering industry. In spite of this, the Government promoted several proposals that would exacerbate the situation as late as last autumn — and were on it through budgetary negotiations. They proposed 20 p.m. increase in the CO2 tax, they proposed to increase corporate taxes, such as: oil companies would face a marginal tax of 79 p.m. and they proposed to reduce the limit for the simplified treatment of development requests from 5 to 3 billion kroner. Each of these proposals is serious, but the sum of them made a clear statement that the government was not so serious in the workshop industry. Now it's a little better, in the sense that at least you've recognised that there may be some problems, and at least you haven't put forward proposals for deterioration – as you did last year – and instead you've tried to propose some improvements to mitigate the problems in industry. But then it is that, among other things. The representative Steensnæs comes up – like other representatives from the centre parties – and boasts of a wide range of measures that the Government should be a little cautious about boasting. One Steensnæs mentioned was that it was set aside NOK 3 billion for a research fund to help Norwegian companies. It is an excellent proposal – a proposal of which we are great supporters in the Workers' Party. We're actually so many followers of it that we suggested it last autumn. Together with the Right, we got a majority for that, an order to the Government to make a proposal for such a research fund. The central parties voted against, so that when the government now comes up with that proposal, it's something they're forced to do by the opposition. We are pleased that they do as we ask them to do, but we think they should be a little careful to boast of the proposals, once they have strictly argued against them and voted against them. We see some of the same thing about the technology fund. We proposed a technology fund last fall. The central parties were against it, now they're making a proposal of 100 million. kr. That's fine, we're all happy and voting for that, and that's good! It should have come last fall, but it's better that it comes now than never. The problem was that funding was totally unacceptable. It was decided to take the money from the cash flow from the oil business before the money was introduced into the oil fund, thus concealing the expenditure on the government budget, even if it was to be used for ordinary research and development activities. And the Minister of Energy answered here when we debated the oil report, that they, among other things. could be used for the development of bioenergy on the Tjeldbergodden, which means that it is entirely ordinary research resources that have been included in the budget and into the Norwegian economy, without being seen in the State budget. That's why we went towards funding, because taking the money before it's introduced into the budget and into the oil fund was a way to undermine the idea of the oil fund. Then a large number of the government's spokesmen are very pleased with the interest rate trend. The rest of us are also happy that interest rates are going down, that they've gone down in more rounds, and that they're probably still going down a little bit. But it was supposed to be in and out of sight too! Over the 1990s, with a few exceptions for short periods, interest rates in Norway have consistently followed those of the rest of Europe. And that means that when we're above interest rates in Europe, it's high interest rates for Norway. The situation is that, after the central government took over, interest rates in Norway increased sharply and interest rates in Norway’s Bank were set at 8pst. It led to housing interest rates up to 10 percentage points. So now they're down to 6 pst, housing interest rates are 7-7.5 percentage points, while the deposit rate in Norway's Bank is down to 6 percentage points, and many hope that they might come down to 5. Let's say we get our interest rates down to 5 percent points. Then they are still clear about what was the level when the Bondevik government took over, and they are twice what they are in the EU, where the interest rate level is 2.5 percentage points. Obviously, if you first triple interest rates and then set them down, so that they're only twice the size of the neighbouring countries, you can say that you're proud that you've had interest rates down. But then I would recommend that you first quadruple them, because then you can put them down even more afterwards and still end up at twice what the neighbouring countries have. So the problem is not that interest rates go down -- we're all happy about -- the problem is that they went up so much first, so they're going to go down a lot before they get down to the level they've used to be on relative to our neighboring country. And then we're back to the budget balance, in the sense that now when we're delving into budgetary policy, we're halving the tightening up, and we're not able to implement a tight economic structure, it's not an immediate problem as long as the oil price is high, because it's important both for interest rate and price development, but it's a problem at the moment when the oil price can fall again. So we will be able to see that the fall in interest rates will be much later, will be much weaker, and that the risk of new interest rates rising once in the future will increase for each time this government is unable to implement sound budgetary arrangements. Then several speakers for the centre parties have been concerned that cost developments have come under control. Yes, it's left depending on what you compare with. But it's like we've had a cost increase for two years, which has been about twice what our neighboring country has been on, over 6 pst. last year, up to 5 pst. this year. It's good that it's lower this year than last year, but it's so that over the two years that have passed, we've lost the whole improvement in cost competitiveness that we won over the ten previous years through the moderation line and the solidarity option. The result is that we see a rather scary development in the Norwegian economy, where private consumption and the growth of the sheltered sector are growing, while industry is losing, investment is falling and the competitive sector is falling both in employment and production. This means that we are breaking with what was the trend and development at the beginning of the 1990s until 1997, where we had growth in industry, and where exports and investment in activities in the competitive sector were driving growth. Now it's the private consumption that does it, and we've seen that in the past it's dangerous to rely on. So few of the government parties have talked about well-being. That might not be so strange, because the local economy is tight. Maybe primarily because the cost is high, the interest is high. Kindergarten expansion has been halted, the school leisure system has been cut by 25 p.m., and the sick pay system for those who serve at least has been completely removed. This is a serious step backwards in relation to important welfare measures. It is not a frenzy of Norwegian welfare schemes, but it is a step in the wrong direction. There are steps that should be reversed and corrected in the next year’s state budget, but the centre must then choose to cooperate — not on the right but on the left, with the social democrats.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2210	«The opposition is slaughtering the budget», which was the title of the Evening Item used when the revised budget was presented. A visionless and weak budget, explained Per-Kristian Foss, while Siv Jensen suggested that the budget was boring and without significant political intervention. The fact that the Workers' Party's Thorbjørn Jagland and Hill-Marta Solberg were not enthusiastic, was reflected in the same article. Today we are discussing a budget that has changed by 0.1 pst. through the examination of the Financial Committee. That means that the Government's arrangements in all material matters are joined. Closer flashes are hard to get. In another case, tough rhetoric is followed up by the fact that the Government's arrangements are essentially the basis of the decision taken. It's become a solid pattern in many fields. We have seen it this week at the latest, where we have had a debate on the framework conditions for oil and gas activities. Where the constitution of the Government was the starting point for the decisions taken and where part of the announced proposals did not receive a majority. And we saw it when it came to the framework conditions of the powerful industry, where in all the essential things it was the government's arrangement that was given a majority, despite the fact that it was a prior and, to some extent, a hard debate. This confirms that the Government’s proposal is balanced and well-worked. In addition, it shows that the opposition may wish to change the Government's arrangement, but to agree on how it should happen, yes, it's difficult. A central government has the best starting point for finding the balance point in economic policy. It is a starting point that both the right parties and the Labour Party are missing, and it is also evident from the budgetary commitments they have presented. The centre is the crossroads of power policy in economic policy, one has to go to the centre to find the balanced solutions. When the 1999 budget was discussed, the Left said that the most important thing for us was to contribute to the fall in interest rates. The interest rate increase is the most unsocial way of tightening up. Increases in interest rates are also a clear burden on businesses and municipalities. It is very satisfying that the interest rate is now on its way down. The government is achieving what was one of the main objectives of the 1999 budget. There is also a positive trend in unemployment rates, which remains low despite the predictions of the Workers' Party and the SV. I hope you're able to enjoy that we have the lowest May numbers for leave in ten years. When the revised budget was presented, some called for the centre profile. As if you were going to span the budget completely and give it a reinforced or other profile in connection with the revision! I assume that there is a broad consensus that the best character of a revised budget can have is that it has the same profile and device as the budget adopted in December. The centre profile was clear in many important areas, and that profiling is still in place. But a new approach is also being taken in the revision, which shows which policies this central government wants to transform in the direction of. Intervention will facilitate the implementation of generational shifts in enterprises by deducting the document fee from the inheritance tax. One billion dollars is proposed by the oil fund to be invested in environmental management, and it is an area where the majority has not previously been willing to enter. We even see that the Workers' Party, which has been against this before, now doubles to get a profile in relation to the Government. And that's part of this government's political mission, to lead to exploitation also in the opposition. With this budget and with this revision, we are in the process of fulfilling several of the promises made by the Left and Second Government Parties to the elections. The newspaper briefly summarized the political work of the Bondevik government, saying that one was about halfway to what was the level of ambition in the Adult Declaration. It must be a good status in the middle of the period. So a little back to a line exchange I had with Øystein Djupedal from SV earlier today, where I pointed out the pointless in criticising the Government for not taking into account the petroleum industry, so not to follow up on any proposals themselves. Then Djupedal replied that it was not correct when I said that they were against a reduction in the production fee. It appears from the recommendation of the Energy and Environment Committee that SV is not now prepared to support this proposal by the Government but will await and take a decision on it at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2233	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2237	Both in this post and in various media recordings, it appears that the representative Kvassheim is very pleased with everything the Government does. In a time of great dark clouds, partly unfamiliar in the engineering industry, in the oil-related industry and in parts of the construction sector, he gives the impression that everything is very well. It is not much in line with the frustration and concerns I encounter with the trustees in e.g. Umoe Haugesund and Kværner Rosenberg and Kværner Egersund. Is Kvassheim really so little worried about the situation he's giving the impression of? Is he happy to come home and meet the Kværners-adders in Egersund? I otherwise think that Kvassheim is on the edge of the unethical in his arrogance to produce a passive and hesitant government as the best thing that has happened to this country. He makes, as the representative Stoltenberg said, earlier working party proposals such as the Government's idea, for example. technology funds, he manufactures orders from a majority in Stortinget as the Government's idea, e.g. research funds, he says, there is no difference between the budget adopted and the Government's proposal, and underlines that the government party here today is going against increasing promises to, for example, ferries, the development of kindergartens and student housing, to mention something. If reference is necessary, I may, among other things. magazines for various letters in Stavanger Aftenblad. Political dissatisfaction is a commitment to democracy. I have respect for political opponents who stand for what they do, and I'm not trying to explain away or misinformed. Would it not be more real for the representative of Kvassheim to tell us what the Government and Government Party are for and against, and does he not have an extra great responsibility in such a way as the parliamentary leader?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2246	I am happy to come home to Rogaland and meet those who are concerned about the challenges one has in the petroleum industry and the workshop industry, because I am not of the opinion that everything is well, and I am prepared to help find solutions to the challenges we face. But I am concerned to say that it is wrong when one says that the government does not take any action, does not promote a single proposal aimed at these industries, and that is what the Workers' Party said when the revised national budget was presented. I am pleased to come home and say that there is not much tension between what the Government has presented as its proposals and what is being adopted today. For example, with regard to the production charge, the tension between the device of the Government proposal and what is being adopted today is not global. There's a certain phase shift in time, but it's about gradual degression and a field-wise degression. In the case of the CO2 tax, which the workshop workers were promised to be reduced now, the majority have not agreed to a reduction, because the Right and the Workers' Party have different devices here, and thus they have not been able to comply with this. In sum, that means that one stands back with what the government has proposed, plus some other measures, but not two very different images of this. The other part of this picture is that in order to finance parts of the purposes to which the representative referred, there is a cut in the reimbursement scheme for seafarers. There is a little enthusiasm for in Rogaland – very little enthusiasm – and it is one of the areas where there is the greatest commitment to LO, because one believes there is a threat to Norwegian jobs on Norwegian ships.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2257	It's not always that easy to ask questions to the left, because they're really very hard to see. But I expect that they will at least support the proposals that have come from the Government, and feel a certain responsibility for them. I therefore have a few questions for the representative Kvassheim. The first thing goes to the police. It is true, however, that the Government has followed up the budgetary agreement by proposing 275 new posts in the policing and county seats. But there have been a number of statements from organisations and police officers that clearly say that the government's proposal is 42 million. kr will not be sufficient to maintain the activity. There is little or no money to cover the variable costs, which means that a number of police officers have had to give instructions that they should not move out in the evening and at night unless life and health are at risk. If you have a break-in at night, you can't expect the police to move into much of the country. According to a certain pressure, the center has now proposed a further 20 million. NOK, but it is obviously also completely inadequate. Does the Left believe that it should be this way in the country that we can't expect the police to move out when we're exposed to burglaries and other crimes outside office hours? The second question is in the Municipality of Oslo. Here the Government proposes to remove 150 million. kr, which represents the capital grant. Partly, it was justified that Oslo had a tax liability, a debt to Hydro, of 128 million. kr. This was reduced to less than 50 million shortly thereafter. In a letter from the Minister of Finance, however, the proposal of 150 million. kr is maintained without any new justification. The central parties support the Government’s proposal, even after most of the reasons then have disappeared. In addition, there are a number of other municipalities in the same situation as if they were simply getting their debt extinguished. Is this serious treatment, and would the Left be involved in treating any other municipality in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2273	It was disappointing that the party representative thought it was difficult to get an eye on the Left. Then it is comforting to pick up some of the management articles in the working party newspapers the last week where one says that the left is now more profiled and more influential than the working party. It does good for self-confidence, but now leave it alone. With regard to the police service and the increase in the budget, the Minister of Finance gave an adequate and good account of it in an article earlier in the debate, and I support it. It is clear that these funds will be used for active police services. I note that there is disagreement about the reasons given by the Government to cut the capital grant in the context of the revision of the budget – that one has had different views on it. At least what is left, and which is reassuring in that situation, is that the Municipality of Oslo has such a large increase in tax revenue that one will be able to live well with such an adjustment. It is therefore a sound adjustment proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2282	The representative of Kvassheim was so kind to quote my name for the audit of the budget. That was a very good wording, I think, even in retrospect, namely 'unvisionful'. I have to admit that it's not always what I like in retrospect, but I think it's basically getting better and better, and I think the debate has fully confirmed it. The only thing the government is satisfied with is itself – that is, they have managed to agree – and they are pleased to have received the budget through the Stortingen just to have weakened it by 400-500 million. kr. There is no reference to whether or not things are going better in the country, no reference to whether or not it helps industry, the vacant yard workers, the offshore industry, and whether or not there will be more investment there. I thought at least a coastal man would have a little look for the industries of the coast, but he doesn't. On the other hand, Mr. Kvassheim looks at a strange form of parliamentaryism. He says to the nations yesterday, explaining why there is no special means of transport with this government: ‘That is why, above all, the Government of the United Kingdom and, secondly, the Government must be criticised for not having enough money on its way.’ Does this government intend to go off, or how long will it be sitting? For a government that says that it's not our fault that we don't propose anything, I have to say that my expression "without vision", which was used about the budget when it was submitted, would perhaps be too weak – it has given up completely. I'll end up with a question then, in recognition that I think maybe the government can be sitting through the summer. I get Terje Johansen quotes again – he is popular, because he is the source of some quotations that are interesting. He said last summer: I am terrified that the government will try to lean on the Labour Party in the budget, then we will disappear into a black hole. My question is whether the parliamentary leader and his party can join in this formulation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2298	The experience of last year's budgetary work showed that it was not possible to find a solution with the Workers' Party, because the Workers' Party was not prepared to find a solution with the Centre Parties. That is why it was a good warning when it came to betting on that card, because it could not bring it forward. Then there's a reference to a few lines I was quoted on in the nation yesterday, where my main message was that when a budget doesn't contain enough funds, for example on the road, it's the government's responsibility, and it would be wrong to appoint a government council as the one responsible for it. So I also stressed that it is the Storting that finally adopts the budget. I get to take responsibility for it being formulated as it was in the nation. As a former journalist, I would not agree to add responsibility to anyone else. With regard to the budget and the main profile it has, I don't have any trouble meeting the people of the coast, as Foss says. I believe it is a budget that takes seriously the situation facing the workshop industry and the petroleum industry. And that is well documented in the debate earlier today. The right has several elements that I know are controversial, and which I regret, in these very areas, among other things. the very extensive cuts in the case of SND. I believe that the totality of our budget can be very well measured by what the Right proposes, which in addition requires a cut in the health pay scheme of 755 million. kr, something on the right did not make it possible to obtain a majority for when they presented the draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2309	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2312	The 1999 government budget, for which we are now going to carry out the necessary revisions, was reassembled by an agreement between the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party, signed on 25 November last year. Prior to that, however, there was a relatively turbulent time, and I think it makes sense that there are several of us who are trying to learn part of the process that happened last autumn. In any case, the Progress Party has learned some things, and I have chosen to share some of the lessons with the Stortinget and with the Prime Minister. This compromise and the agreement that made the Right and Advance Party subsidiaryly join a changed regime from the government parties to the government budget presented by the Government also succeeded in the participation of the Prime Minister. There were negotiations in the government building a few late night hours, and it was a very, very hectic atmosphere, with scarce deadlines. This will not be part of the Progress Party again. If we are to conduct serious negotiations on important things for the companies, persons, parts of the country and industries concerned, it should not be under time pressure. We have a good saying called ‘harvest works are cargo works’. It is also important to give full back coverage in batches, to make the necessary discussions, to make the necessary calculations instead of going through a 20-minute chapter because the press conference was called for. It doesn't make much sense, so you have to have the necessary time. I therefore believe that I will advise the Government when it submits its government budget for the harvest, that it will not waste time until it starts any negotiations, which we all expect will be necessary, as in the autumn it will be a full package vote for the entire budget. We have noticed that many of the government parties – although we have also noticed that the Prime Minister is very careful not to participate, and I think that makes sense – are very eager to say that it is the Workers' Party they prefer to cooperate with. If that's the way you choose it, and it's the government's free to of course, I think our starting point is that we're going to have time for our negotiations equal to the time you start negotiating with the Workers' Party until you possibly come to the Right and us, regardless of any deadlines that may be. The second lesson is that the design of a budget agreement must be a little bit more legal than what we were last. There are some formulations that created hopes in us, which have not completely turned on. We have responded relatively strongly to the Government's proposal to reduce the defence, and that it was not met in the positive way we had expected when it was what we got in terms of the police. We had not expected that we would still have shifts in the evening post, as we had the other day, about the non-payment of input-based funding to the hospitals, that there would still be debates about whether it is the shares in Arcus that are to be sold, or whether there are only parts or subsidiaries. I could also mention some other things, for example. Kindergartens, where we hoped for far more justice between municipal and private kindergartens. So I would say that such an agreement must be much clearer and more unambiguous than what it was last formulated. There's a couple of the main experiences, so we're not going to go forward in the same way. It is also clear that we cannot expect what we had last, namely a national meeting in the Workers' Party, which meant that the Senter Party suddenly found a couple of extra billion in cuts and a couple of other things, for fear that there would be a government crisis. So finally, I think the Labour Party is now going to stop pretending, as they do in this debate, that 0.5 pst. more to the municipal sector brings up all services in the municipal sector at an acceptable level for the Workers' Party. With the black paint used, not 0,5 pst. have a special impact, and I hope that we will not hear so much about it during the municipal election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2333	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2336	I see Carl I. Hagen now made a very interesting and good contribution, in the sense that he accurately described, and at least in detail, what was his experience with the budget agreement with the government of Bondevik last autumn, and what he thought a future budget agreement had to look like. It was supposed to be legally binding, as far as I got with me, and it is approaching something that almost had to be clarified and perhaps paid for the document fee. But more seriously and more importantly, the agreement was to go on all the details, be very precise and cover all the areas, in order to be absolutely sure that there could be no misunderstandings or room for interpretation, and one should have plenty of time to define all these details. And I can understand that Carl I. Hagen wants that. But that means that the Progress Party then wants Carl I. Hagen to be both the opposition leader and the negotiator and, at the same time, the role of Prime Minister and Minister of Finance in the government of which he is not a member, because everything here is to be determined by a detailed agreement. So really it's not what I'm saying that's interesting, but that's what the center parties are saying to that demand, which is becoming interesting, because it's obvious that there are now very strict demands for future budgetary cooperation with the Progress Party. I just want to make one question to Carl I. Hagen, and that's whether it's the party program or whether that's what the Progress Party at any time says, that applies. It is therefore true that the party programme states that the Progress Party believes that a stable exchange rate and that it is a very important objective. In the economic debate, the Progress Party says that inflation targets should be set, which is the exact opposite. In the debate on the local economy last week, there were many speakers from the Progress Party who boasted that they would spend more money on kindergartens. The party programme states that they should abolish all state aid to kindergartens. What's going on – what's said, or what's going on? The progress party is against a lot of fees, but they all voted for the budget agreement last autumn. It would have been okay before we go into the summer vacation, and before the election campaign, to get a clarification on whether that's what Carl I is. Hagen always says, we're going to deal with, or whether that's what's in the party program.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2350	I am glad that Jens Stoltenberg spends a lot of time on our party program – I am absolutely convinced that he will get many good ideas and sensible thoughts out of it, if he reads it in a positive way instead of reading it as a certain person reads the Bible. I said nothing about ‘legally binding’, I said that we wanted some more legal clarity, something more in that direction. It's something quite different than legally binding. The reason I said that is because we will not later have big discussions about what is really meant, about follow-up and such, plus that we have quite good experience with the cash support agreement, at least in the case of a couple of formulations that I was involved in designing, and that have locked the situation for the entire four-year period. So a little bit more of that kind of thing I think we'll be looking for. With regard to this budget to which Jens Stoltenberg refers, it was therefore the amended budget of the government parties, to which we gave subsidiary consent. It wasn't that we went cheering into it. As Jens Stoltenberg well knows, we had significant tax reliefs in our own primary budget, and that is what we should be measured for in this case. Then you can ask what budgetary policy the Progress Party has been on: it is our primary budget that applies, and there we had significant reductions in both taxes and taxes. But as Mr. Stoltenberg also knows, because I have told him in many debates afterwards, our party program has never been meant to be implemented in four years – 'the most possible', it says in the foreword, but it is also a long-term programme. I have no hope that Stoltenberg will not talk about this again in countless meetings for the autumn, but that is the way it is. In the case of the nursery allowance, the state operating grant, we have said that we want it liquidated and replaced with cash support. And that's actually done for the smallest children, because the state grant and the cash support are the same amount. We wanted a model where everyone got it paid out, and those who had nursery facilities paid it so on to the kindergartens. There we have very well followed up on what is in the party programme. And we're doing the best we can, to the best of our ability, also in the other areas of the party program, that apply to our policies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2361	In his statement, Hagen gave a description of the experience of cooperation with the central government. I think we're a long way from sharing these experiences. And that underlines the advice we gave to the Government last year, namely to choose a course in advance, not to pretend that they would cooperate with the Workers' Party – which we hardly thought was possible – and then to turn to us in the last round. It gave a very untidy process and a very time-pressed process. I think we agree on that. Now I have to add that, after all, it was not so bad as to cooperate with the Workers' Party in the government position. I remember so far back that I remember that the central parties got their big victory by granting a couple of billion kroner – and that is not a small amount – in so-called VAT compensation, as the Farmers had demanded. But it lasted no more than half a year, because in the revised national budget the government got the whole thing back, and said that now it's a new round, now you have to try again. It wasn't that bad. I think maybe Stoltenberg should also be reminded of this. We, the Right and the Advance Party, have had good cooperation in many areas. However, I just wonder a little about the new position of the Progress Party now on the revised national budget, where they write that they will not make budgetary changes ‘unless there are clear grounds for making absolutely necessary adjustments’. This is a political formulation that can contain everything, and that can cover everything, from proposing DKK 3.8 billion in tax reliefs, as they have proposed for the base – an interesting proposal, we are also going in that direction, if not quite as dramatic – to not even including 20 million in other areas. kr. I will take an example: the party of progress and we agree that there is far too little support for apprentices. And here, things have happened in the last six months. The search is poor, there is a failure to recruit for vocational training. On the big little thing, it was probably called, where the small businesses were together, we were actually together to promise relief to apprentices. We've done it now by increasing the apprentice's grant. But here the Progress Party is not included, despite the fact that they said they should be in the very near future. I don't know the Progress Party completely again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2372	With regard to the main question of Per-Kristian Foss, Siv Jensen gave a very good and thorough answer to it both in his main post and in the lines, and I see no need to try again, sir. Foss is not going to perceive this anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2377	Now I think maybe Carl I. Hagen needs a never so little vacation soon! I really think that the post he made here now was a rather suspense and defensive post. And I wonder if that is because it starts to go up for Carl I. Hagen that it goes up for a lot of voters too eventually that Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party have actually voted for more than most parties have voted in favour of this Stortinget, and that very much of the policy that has actually been implemented has been implemented with – and not against, as they thought – the votes of the Progress Party. Then it's interesting to ask, what is the Advance Party using its power when they have as much influence as they actually have in this Greatness? Well, there's a lot of people who were hit by the change in the health insurance system who think that Carl I. Hagen has been on their side and is fighting. So I say, no, sorry, it was with Carl I. Hagen's voices. Ha, ha -- they're wondering about that now. Then I say, "Be so good, look here!" Then there are awfully many older people who wonder how they are going to cope with these increases in the excesses of drugs, and believe that Carl I. Hagen is their husband. Then I say, "He's voted for," I say. It is he, in negotiations with the government parties, who has provided for this. And then there are some voters who come and say, "How in the world can it be that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party are running and crawling for Peace." Olsen? How can it be that they are not in the process of demanding a market price for an empty and selling cheaply to a shipowner? How is this going to work out? This is the policy of the Progress Party, I say. It's just that when the big guys come, they hear well, but when the little people who think the Advance Party is the ones who fight for their cause, they don't get anything. The truth is that the Advance Party is the party of this Greatness that is responsible for the most! Can we...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2392	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2395	Kristin Halvorsen says that it was a bit of a buzzing post. I tried to be a little calm for once I, and didn't raise myself to the big heights. That's what I'm going to do a little later tonight, when we're going to settle with Stein Ørnhoei's fan club in this room! [[Laughter]] But I’m happy to admit that I’m happy to, and I’m absolutely convinced that the Norwegian people are happy that both Kristin Halvorsen and I and Jagland and some others are going to have vacations, so they’ll also get vacations from us! [[Laughter]] So it was a defensive post. At the moment, I have to admit that I do not feel that I have the great need to be so offensive. When she talks about the many voters, they've actually understood, I think, what we've done, and the results are actually satisfactory for us in terms of polling and uplifting. So that it would be us who have the great need to be so intensely offensive, I can't actually see that there's any particular basis for it. I guess there are others who may be a little nervous about some of the pickers. And that we are responsible for so much – yes, I still take it as a compliment that we have influence. And we're happy to use Kristin Halvorsen as a witness of truth: yes, if you vote the Advance Party, you also get influence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2406	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2409	The review of the 1999 revised national budget is in sharp relief to the last year’s budget audit, which was a very demanding political task. Last year, in the government's opinion, it was necessary to indicate that we had to start the tightening that was then followed up through the budget line for the current year. Today, there has been an outrageous debate in many ways. As indicated in the setting, the government receives small adjustments through its main priorities. In the presentation of the national budget last autumn, the Government stressed the uncertainty of economic development. Significant concerns in the international economy and in the financial market, low oil prices combined with an increasing pressure at home, were the reasons for this. Now, almost halfway out this year, we can register the following: The oil price has taken considerable care of itself. Norway’s Bank has reduced signal rates four times, with a total of 2 percentage points. The Norwegian krona is back – and I guess so – where it was before the euro exchange last year. We have a wage settlement with a low level of conflict and a falling wage growth. The Government's initiative for broad income policy cooperation, involving all important parties, has contributed to this. The registered unemployment rate so far this year shows lower figures than last year. This week there were 1,800 fewer unemployed than 12 months ago. I think it's pretty amazing that parts of the opposition are unable to enjoy these developments more, but just focusing on anxiety and negative features. The opposition should be critical, but it – I was saying – must almost be a little sad to live if one is unable to record what is going well, but immediately must focus unilaterally on the danger signal that may be there. The Labour Party has accused us of not looking ahead in terms of the labour market and unemployment, but only in terms of the situation here and now. That's how it goes last year, too. Then the lot made the impression that the unemployment would increase relatively quickly and strongly. I now register that several environments, including The Labour Directorate, as the Workers' Party so sworn last year, has changed its forecasts to be less gloomy. However, the government takes the risk of unemployment seriously, and still full employment is our objective. 1 in economic policy. I think we're going to have some humility in relation to economic forecasts. We're not talking about exact science, and one must always be based on a set of assumptions, where the assumptions can change. The government is also humble in relation to taking credit for the positive development of the Norwegian economy alone. It would be just as wrong to blame the government last year when we had significant problems. There are several factors that help to make things go well and that helped make things worse last year. It should be admitted that it is easier to deal with economic policies when progress is being made in the right direction. But it has been a long and sometimes painful way to regain confidence in the Norwegian economy and lay the basis for lower interest rates and for renewed growth. Economic policy is an instrument, not an end in itself. It is an instrument for creating the society that we described in the Adult Declaration as follows: ‘A solidarity and human society is based on people who show humanity, care for the weakest and take responsibility for others, for the environment and for future generations.’ This is our vision. If we are to succeed in developing such a society, we must – as I also said in my presentation at the February party leader debate in Stortinget – bet on an innovative Norway, a solidarity Norway and a safer Norway. An innovative Norway is developed through skills-providing education and new technology-providing research. The government’s recently submitted research report is a follow-up. A solidarity between Norway and Norway must apply both within Norway and across borders. We have taken the consequences of this, among other things. in the case of significant contributions in the context of the conflict in the Balkans. The National Government will follow-up, inter alia. through the Life-Kingage Balancing Communication. Safer Norway has to do with health, life and property safety. This has been followed up by older people’s reforms, more health reforms and increased commitment to criminal policy. And the results are starting to show up. The central government has now steered halfway into the landfill period. In a short time, we will provide an overview of how much of the Adultås statement we have made or taken up. I think it'll show us that we're well off. Being a minority government also sets its limits on what we can get through. But measured against previous minority governments from the Workers' Party, I actually believe that we stand well and are not just being deleted to sit. There's no basis for anything other than minority governments now, and then I think the center is actually the most manageable.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2467	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2470	Norway faces two fundamental challenges. One is that each year, for a very long time, more elderly people are entitled to care and pensions. The second is that business is undergoing major changes based on knowledge and new technologies. We share these challenges with the vast majority of other countries. For this reason, Heads of State across Europe and in the United States are leading in the field of education. This is to enable young people and adults to take on the many new jobs that are coming to ensure the well-being of older people in the future. But what happens here in Norway? The large investment in education is now replaced by small investment in private schools, while public schools receive less funding. The school leisure system is becoming more expensive. Kindergartens are getting more expensive. In other words, communities are weakening and becoming less accessible at a time when we more than ever need common meeting places, especially for children and young people, and need a strong public school, which you talk about all over the world. The government has made it a habit to meet such considerations that there is black paint. I would simply like to ask the Prime Minister whether this time he could put it aside and take some thought about the future: is the Prime Minister concerned that the school leisure system is becoming more expensive, so that those who have the worst advice first take their children out, and that the kindergartens are becoming more expensive, so that the same thing happens there, and that the public school may be weakened? What doesn't happen at least is that you keep up the strong effort the Workers' Party had in public school for ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2479	It is a little difficult to get hold of the Labour Party's current policy priorities. A year ago, it started: elderly people and health first, older people and health first, older people and health first. Now it's called work and education first, work and education first, work and education first. What is the priority of the Workers' Party? In the past, we could not afford to spend this money on the cash support. Now the Workers' Party itself spends most of the money on cash support and other family policy measures. So now we can afford it all of a sudden. It's very difficult to find a line in this, and I have to insist that I see the Workers' Party at times black paint. Today, Igland’s contributions were an example of that. There were a couple of sentences saying it's going well, and then that's all there was to it. A little clearer view of life will I recommend to the opposition leader, not least when he enters the summer vacation. When it comes to education, we're told that we're not betting on public education, that we're betting on private schools instead. But the amounts spent on private schools are extremely small compared to the amounts spent on public schools. 98,5 pst. by the students go to public school, 1.5 pst. in private schools. You shouldn't think it's any cheaper to bet in public schools for these students, which is 1.5 pst. Throughout, private schools are actually cheaper and, in that case, save society from resources. This is a strange economic consideration. That the Workers' Party is against private schools, we do have for many decades. The Labour Party has gone against state aid to private schools, and that means that only children of the rich can go there, and I've never realized that is social democratic policy. It's not right that the government doesn't rate education. We have, in cooperation with the social partners, launched a reform of competences that we want to invest considerable resources in. We have promoted a growth message with greater local freedom of action in the education sector, we are in the process of monitoring higher education, we have proposed a research fund of DKK 3 billion, we have prioritised a significant number of new places of study in IT and in healthcare, there has been an increased interaction between school and society and entrepreneurship, and we have improved the funding for studies. We would like to discuss a further improvement in education policy with the Workers' Party, but I think we should have a more realistic picture before we start the discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2493	I would like to comply with the Prime Minister's wish to talk a little bit about what's going well. And that's something that's going well: intervention-based funding in hospitals is going well, with increased activity in hospitals as a result of getting paid for what they're doing. The more they operate and treat, the more money they get, that is. they must at least have it, if not when the county collects the money as the majority here sends them via the county municipality. But it's fine! There has been an increased activity and a successful system. The progress party believes that when we've figured out something that's going well, we had to be able to use it in other areas. In the setting, we have launched the idea of having such a system tested and implemented for the care of the elderly, and it is much easier. Effort-based funding in hospitals using the DRG method: there are hundreds of different tariffs, because there are a lot of different things that are done in a hospital – it's very complicated, but at a close range as complicated as it is in the ordinary business world, that's why the public has had some problems with it, because they're not used to doing it this way, but they're starting to get it into. But in the care of the elderly, it is much easier to measure the number of hours for a home care provider, a home care provider. It is much easier to figure out a standard rate, varying slightly across the country, for what a health home site of good quality covers according to authorised requirements. Of course, a regulated scheme for the care of the elderly, which applies to nursing homes, nursing homes, home care, home care and other services, is based on public approval. This, of course, must be checked and approved by the public, just as a doctor must approve that a patient needs a hip replacement. So my question to the Prime Minister is, can he tell us something about what might be the reason why the Government should not support input-based funding in the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2502	Government and government parties will be open to discuss ways of improving care for the elderly. But as Carl I. Hagen knows, and as we've taken the consequences on hospital funding, we can't base all the activities there on input-based funding. This is a clear component of care, which cannot be based on performed operations or other measurable tasks, and it will also be very much the case in the care of the elderly. It is also part of the concept of ‘care’. It is simply a matter of much human care, of being present, and of not being able to measure the result in the same way and demand reimbursement from the State for it. But we have to be open to see if parts of it can in this case be based on new principles and ideas, but it never has to get there that the entire health care system and the entire care system are transformed into an efficiency-based system. The need for care and time, both for the elderly and patients, should continue to be a key element of both healthcare and care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2509	The Minister of Finance has today insisted that he has never suggested that interest rates should go down towards the European level during 1999. He has made it clear that the target is in 2000. But in the Stortings spontaneous questioning time of February 17th this year, he said: ‘My answer remains the same: the main part of the budget was to facilitate a reduction in interest rates towards the European level during 1999, and we still hope to do so.’ That is something quite different from what the Minister of Finance firmly denied earlier today, and I shall not dwell on the formal seriousness of it. But it is really serious when the Minister of Finance does not remember what the main objective of the 1999 budget is. My question to the Prime Minister is then: why has this objective been changed, postponed until the year 2000? Is it due to the fact that one has either failed, wanted or had a spine to keep the tightening that the Government itself said was an overall objective of the 1999 budget? Is he aware of how much this costs for families who pay a higher interest rate over a longer period of time, for the companies that will create jobs, and for the municipalities that will facilitate the elderly and school?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2521	The Minister of Finance has expressed hopes about the level of interest rates. But if a reader exactly what he has said, he has not – and makes any finance minister wise – promised a certain level of interest, but he has expressed expectations and hopes about how it will develop. I do not think it is the adjustments in budgetary rigour that will allow one to come down to the European level in 2000, as opposed to the end of 1999, because if we look at the market's confidence in the Norwegian economy, it is now very strong. Even after the last reduction in interest rates on Wednesday, the crown strengthened. If the market had lost confidence in financial policy, that is to say in the budget, it would have turned out to be a completely different estimate of its value. But we know that the Bank of Norway, and that the Governor of the Central Bank has made public in newspaper articles, is based on several criteria regarding the issue of interest rate developments, among other things. activity in the Norwegian economy, inflationary pressures, etc. He has made this clear. The activity in the Norwegian economy is still so high, and so the unemployment rate is lower than last year, despite what some have said, that this is also contributing. This government does not intend to use increasing unemployment as a tool to bring down, for example: inflation or level of interest rates. But we believe that the budget, as it is now, is adapted to the economic situation. We believe that the reaction of the market indicates this. The trust is solid to the Norwegian economy and to the Norwegian krona. We have also been helped by an increasing oil price. We're not hiding that. And we believe that this provides the basis for a continued reduction in interest rates in 1999 and into the year 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2530	I read an interview with the Prime Minister in the newspaper this day, a brilliantly satisfied Prime Minister who would like to sit for another six years. That was to the extent that a self-scrupulous Prime Minister, and what one knows from the heart, one must listen to. I also understand the Government's need to boast of what they achieve, because there are not so many others who do, and then one has to do it himself! But I wonder if he in the innermost part is well pleased. Now I have spent some time going through the Adultås Declaration. It is really alarming how high the level of ambition the Government had in terms of school and education policies and other areas that are important for children and young people, and how little of this has been implemented. In fact, there is only one thing that has been done, and that is the cash support, while the other is neglected. If we take what's about children and young people, you would have kindergarten space for everyone by the year 2000, the self-payment would go down, not up, which is the reality around, and there would be more justice in terms of leave arrangements for fathers. All three points were before point four, which was the cash support. As far as school policy is concerned, the number of pupils in the classes should be reduced, IT should be invested, and all cross-border schools should be secured. There's nothing to say at the level of ambition. I think the main reason why an increase in the number of students goes to private schools is that there's too much standard in public school. It's not going to be like this in the future that people think that the standard is as bad as it is in many places. And then I wonder, who is the government going to ally with to raise the standard in school and in other common arenas for children and young people? Has the Prime Minister ever heard that the Progress Party has raised such a standard?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2541	Of course, the length of this government's sitting down is all the way up to Stortinget. We have considerable humility towards being a clear minority government. I haven't predicted six years, but what I was asked about was if this government goes out of this period, huh? Then I said that I don't ignore the fact that we can start a new period, and then put the paper together two years and four years, which is six. It's got to be the paper's version. What I know at least is that the Adult Declaration, for which Kristin Halvorsen would now have a full set of accounts, is a statement for four years, not for two. We're going to provide an overview of what we've accomplished after half of this period. I'm going to say, as I also said in my post, that it's going to be a pretty good overview, which we can be familiar with. Then we have two more years to implement as much of the rest as possible. It is completely wrong when Kristin Halvorsen creates the impression that only the cash support has been provided from the Adultås Declaration. I don't have time to ram up all the rest, but I can mention something: We have increased the minimum pension, as we promised.We have achieved an economic escalation plan for the psychiatry.We have received a similar rate for cancer care.We have received similar rates for hospital equipment – i.e. we have taken the consequence that health should come first.We have softened the criteria for asylum.We have adopted a debt plan for developing countries.We have increased the grant share in the Loan Fund.We have created more publicity in the administration.We have increased the fight against violence in public places, and it actually starts to produce results in a few of the larger cities.We have increased the investment in several rural policies.We have increased the investment in alternative energy and an increase. I could ram even more. I would rather refer to later written documents. But it is completely wrong that only the cash support has been implemented. In terms of school, father rights and other things that Kristin Halvorsen called for, we'll see what we get now in the two years we have left. We come with a nursery note for the autumn, which will take up some measures that I think will also meet well with Kristin Halvorsen. We would like to work together on further strengthening of the school budget within a responsible financial framework.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2586	I have to say that I am disappointed and surprised that the Prime Minister, too – as has happened in the debate here from several of the representatives of the central parties – uses the market in his argument as much as he does. It's very short term. Only in the last two days has the market fluctuated considerably in the assessment of the Norwegian economy, because what is actually going on with the state budget has been identified. Now the government has been swinging with the market for two years, and we should preferably not have any more of it. Then I'm a little disappointed in the way the Prime Minister met my invite. My question was: Is the Prime Minister concerned that parental pay in the school leisure system is increasing sharply, so that those who have the worst income have to take the children out first? In the Ski municipality the parental payment has increased by 11.5 pst. to date this year, and there are proposals for further increases. Is the Prime Minister concerned that the prices in kindergartens are rising sharply, so that those children with parents with the worst advice are first taken out? The private schools are cheaper, says the prime minister. The working party is not interested in what is the cheapest. You can't base it on what's best for school. We're looking for what's best for society, and what -- above all -- is best for the kids we have here in the country. We're looking for what creates community. I would challenge the Prime Minister for the following: Can the Government send a clear message to the municipalities that they do not need to plan any further increase in parental pay in the school leisure system and kindergartens and do not cut down on the schools in the next year's budget, because the Government will fill up with money so that this is not necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2597	After all, the Stortinget has just addressed the municipal economicproposition and set the framework for the growth of the local economy next year. Within these frameworks, of course, local authorities must now plan their municipal budget for the year 2000. We cannot deprive the municipalities of self-government in such areas as the representative Jagland mentioned. Clearly, we share the concern that important schemes for children and young people are increasing in price. There are considerable variations between municipalities, and there is a concern we share. But we can't put municipal autonomy out of play through state directives. With regard to kindergarten development and also the cost of having children in kindergarten, the government will be investing in that area, and we would like to go into cooperation with the Workers' Party on that. We are going to present a nursery report in the autumn, where we will present proposals that can move in the right direction, and I do not overlook the fact that there can also be measures in the state budget itself early in the autumn. So to the private schools. Here, it's a little difficult to understand what the Workers' Party's objections and arguments are. The Labour Party says from time to time, and Jagland also said today that the Workers' Party does not oppose private schools. But what the Workers' Party has always opposed is to give the private schools a real economy. The working party has consistently voted for lower appropriations. The consequence of saying that it is all right that children go to private schools, but schools should not get proper state aid, is that the parental payment then has to be set up for the private schools. So there are children of rich parents who can go to private schools. It has always been the Labour Party's private school policy. The one we think is unsocial, and I can't believe it's social-democratic either. They are social democratic parties in other countries, for example. Denmark, which stands for a completely different line. We don't think the supplement the private schools represent today is a threat to the community. We believe that one should have this access, from the point of view of life, to alternative pedagogical approaches or quantitative needs, in order to complement the public. But I fully agree with the Workers' Party that it is an advantage that the main weight of children goes to public school and experiences that community.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2608	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2611	I think the last line exchange was a little bit interesting. The representative of Thorbjørn Igland invites the Prime Minister to cooperate constructively to secure the public school, which the Prime Minister answers very little, but he tells how badly he sees the views of the Workers' Party at the private school. This, I think, may be part of the budget debate in a nutshell. It is clear that the Prime Minister had decided before he came here, and before he had heard the debate, that he should say that the Workers' Party is working with black paint – it is clear that it was written – despite the fact that the time after the parliamentary leader, Mr Jagland, was invited to cooperate on the challenges we face. Then the Prime Minister's posts were a continuous self-esteem for everything the Government has done, without any analysis of what challenges we are facing right now. An example of this is business policy. There we hear it repeatedly, not least from the Prime Minister himself, produced as if someone has been running huge scare propaganda in relation to what is going to happen on the front line of unemployment during the year. But if anyone could be so kind as to look at what was actually said by the Workers' Party last fall, they would see that it was moderate, and it pointed specifically to the sectors that the Government is now in its own revised National Budget on page 6 saying that we have started to have problems. The government itself says that the availability is going to increase, and the areas that are primarily experiencing problems are the yard industry and possibly the construction sector – very specific areas that are having problems, just as we said before Christmas last year. But the government's answer is not to discuss what we can do about it – no, it's to try to present it as if someone was driving a black paint last fall. It's very little constructive. So the government is trying to give the impression that it has gone in for the same measures to the yard industry that we are now in favour of. The point of the setting is that our proposals are not supported by the central government. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister shows up and boasts of all it does, and he will do so only if we adopt this also, against the votes of the central parties. But the best example of this problem seems to me to be interest rate developments. The Minister of Finance has said today that he has not promised a fall in interest rates in 1999. What Jan Petersen just quoted, 'down towards the European level', shows that the true opposite of what Restad said is true. But the Prime Minister also defends it. It's kind of funny about interest rate policy at all. So first, the government has made sure that interest went up, through poor economic governance, such as. Per-Kristian Foss has explained well and thoroughly. The interest rate was when the government took over, at 3.5 pst, and it went up to 8 pst. And then it went down again to 6 pst. And then we feel that the Prime Minister is boasting and really it's a little bit of a shame that he's not being honoured by the opposition because he's got his interest back down by 2 pst. It's kind of like a pyromaniac who's fired up, turns off half the fire and waits for glory for it. But the reality is that it is the financial management that has led us to an interest rise in Norway. Financial policy is driven by the Doris Day doctrine, which is known to most people here: what happens, it happens. Before Christmas last year, when the government provided the budget, it was absolutely crucial for the Minister of Finance to have a budget of 9 billion kroner. When the budget was adopted, it was very good to have had a reduction of SEK 7.8 billion. When the government presented the revised national budget, the tightening of DKK 5.2 billion was corrected for technical conversions, and when it is adopted, one down to NOK 4.7 billion – that is, half of the tightening that the government said was imperative six months ago. No one can be surprised that during this year a normal family in Norway has had to pay an extra NOK 15 000 in interest expenses, and those who have the least have paid the most. That is the result of the policy being pursued. But then the government says that now it will cooperate with the Workers' Party – perhaps. Yeah, we'll hope that's right. To this point it has consistently flashed to the left, but turned right in every single cross.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2634	The common perception is that the Bondevik government has received through its revised national budget in some form of political slump driving. But you can ask yourself, is that it? Has there been any political slumber drive? In my opinion, the government parties have largely leaned back and taken the position: what happens, it happens. Government block independence has been more important than keeping the already weakened tightness of the budget. The representative, Jørgen Holte, made this clear in the Newspaper, saying, 'We cannot prevent a majority from agreeing on increased expenditure', and he blames the Right for the budget statement. They could have prevented it if they had made an agreement with any party. I want to return to the cash support agreement between the government parties and the Right and the Advance Party. It provided for greater equal treatment of private and municipal kindergartens, and for the Government to make proposals. What has really happened is that the economy of private kindergartens has deteriorated by changing the rules along the way. It appears that the Government is in the habit of changing the rules along the way, so that the commitments it assumes are not met when the budget is adopted. These include outpatient rates, including input-driven funding, and now childcare facilities. The revised budget provides an explanation of how 56 million have been saved. kr. That, they say, comes from the fact that the cash support rates in 1999 are slightly lower than the operating grant rates. So they take $40 million. kr of these and shall give to private kindergartens. But what really happened? Well, they've made a rule change that means they'll be reregistered for less than three years from August 1st. This means that the private kindergartens lose approx. 130 million. kr. We've got a letter from the Department that if you wanted to go ahead with the rules completely, it'll cost 260 million. kr. 50 pst. Of the kindergartens are private, ergo it's 130 million. NOK have been taken from private kindergartens, and it has been tried to cover up with a one-off measure of 40 million. kr. I have to say I'm a little surprised by the kindergarten policy that the government is running here. The economy of the private kindergartens will not be able to be cared for in this way. Now we have proposed that the operating grant should be increased by 75 million. kr from 1 August. There are others who have higher grants, but the important thing now is to give priority to the age group from which so much money has been removed in this category. Private kindergartens should be secured because they are 50 pst. of all kindergartens. The Government shall be commended for carrying out a clean-up operation concerning the charges for the combustion of waste oil. But what I can't understand is the exasperation that the Department has shown towards an organization like UNICEF in terms of VAT settlement. There the Committee has cut through and said that the sale of UNICEF cards should be exempt from VAT. But I hope the Ministry of Finance can clean up and make a bill for the three years ahead, in line with previous practice. Otherwise, the right is very concerned about the tax discrimination against airlines that are held here in Norway. If the airlines are registered abroad, they do not pay VAT on goods and services. If they are registered in Norway, they must do so. This is a very serious situation, and we believe that the government should be much faster in making proposals that safeguard the company's competitiveness-neutrality between them. Now the government does not seem to be able to achieve this, but there is an opportunity for the Government to meet this by using the VAT Act § 70, thus creating competition neutrality between the companies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2651	At least this debate has given me a little déjà vu – a feeling of having experienced it before. Everything's fine, say it. It's not that dangerous to weaken the budget, it's not that dangerous to spend more money. From last year's budget to now, the state budget has fallen by perhaps NOK 4-5 billion. Expenditure is increasing and revenue is declining. But it is not so dangerous because – as the Prime Minister said – everything is going so well. That's exactly the same argument we heard in the fall of 1997, after the Bondevik government joined. Then the budget was reduced by quite exactly 5 billion kroner. We now know the result in retrospect. The bill was sent to young people in the start-up phase with large mortgages and people investing in education and, therefore, with large student loans. The interest rate increase was the way to tighten up. Then the government refused to take its responsibility. Others had to pay. And the interest rate has not yet come down to the level it was on before the Bondevik government started. Now you're on it again. The budget is weakened. Expenditure is increasing and revenue is declining. It happens without interference, as it's called. But that's not right. All the money we spend must come from somewhere. You take from the oil fund. You take from the coming generations. I wonder if it would have been just as easy to take from the oil fund every time Bondevik is going to finance his good things, if it had been called the youth fund, the generation fund or the pension fund – which it actually is. It's not sure it would have been as easy to balance the budget with the fund every time it had its name. The government itself writes that in order for the generation accounts to be in balance, it will have to tighten up, perhaps, 10-15 billion kroner. Then it's easy to figure out that in 20 years we might have 200-300 billion dollars less on the oil fund than we would have had with a more responsible policy. That means that the generation that will then pay will have to pay more in taxes or reduce its consumption to take back what the Bondevik government is doing to us. Instead of today's generation paying for their own consumption, it is those who are young today who are going to pay for it in the future. And it would have been all right if that money had been spent on investing in the future, in school, etc. But they're not. There are probably almost no groups who saw until those degrees have experienced the central government's lifting break like the youth. The student loan rate was going down, it went up. The scholarship proportion was to reach 40 p.m., it has stopped. Dwellings were to be built. The Youth Guarantee has removed the government, school books in high school, or scholarships, as promised in the election campaign, have disappeared as dew for the sun, etc. etc. Most parents like to help the young in the start-up phase, in the educational phase, support them in their growth, put aside some savings. The Bondevik government is the only parent-regeneration government that actually takes off the savings and spends them on its own over-exploitation. The central parties could have supported our proposal on several student homes, but the answer was no. They could have supported our proposal on IT study sites, but the answer was no. They could have supported our proposal for research, but the answer was no. They could have supported our proposal on business activity, but the answer was no. No, no, no. Instead, the money is spent on a purchase party that we have rarely seen before. The daily newspaper and VG from yesterday are full of headlines such as ‘This is going to be the summer of 1999’ and ‘Consumption is taking off in a dimension we have never seen before’. My question is, why does the Christian People's Party think it is right that we spend the money on a dance around the golden calf, instead of a forward-looking effort on youth and education, and why is the bill sent to the generation of young people? My question is, is it right to take that money, for whom is it that we take it from? The oil wealth, which was built over millions of years, we eat and drink, we tax and we cash out – faster and faster. It's statesmanship in 1997. There is no art to spend money for the best possible, the art must be to invest in the future, so that oil wealth can also be enjoyed by several generations. That's a moral question. There won't be anyone who complains, not the politicians, not the voters, not the editors, not the journalists – because the ones we take the money from, are not present in this room, many of them aren't even born. And we who are here, don't care. We're all too busy doing statesmanship.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2668	Prime Minister Bondevik hassled the leader of the Workers' Party in a well-known style. Allow me to say that it is quite naughty to listen to. But the Prime Minister should also note that it is precisely in order to secure the welfare reforms that Stortinget has unanimously already adopted, that we must ensure that work and education pay off. Therefore, there is no difference between the elderly and health first, and work and education must pay off, on the contrary. The implementation of welfare systems in healthcare and care for the elderly depends on the local economy. I don't think I'm too strong in saying that many people had been expecting more, not least from the Center Party, in this area. But the government itself has chosen to cooperate with the Right Party and the Advance Party. I am pleased that the Workers' Party is adding to a better community economic structure, not least for the sake of the ability of municipalities to secure the ownership of the action plans in the care of the elderly and health care sector. The central government, well supported by the Right and the Advance Party, added to a shift in the old age plan of the Jagland government and the unanimous decision to build up a worthy care for the elderly. The displacement represented 2100 fewer places this year. This was one of the most serious promises to our elderly, and in the revised budget, the government must admit that to blame the municipalities for the lack of plans was simply not right. The input-driven funding in the hospital sector is causing great anxiety and uncertainty, and I have recorded that there are several hundred million separating what KS thinks is the right level, and the actual government figures. On the part of the Workers' Party, we have to assume that the Minister of Health does not misinform the Storting, that the increase in activity is 1.5 p.m., and that any breach of this assumption is corrected at the first opportunity. I'm glad that the Workers' Party will have an impact of 33 million. For outpatient treatment. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have pressed for a steady increase in input-driven funding without prior evaluation and across the Central Party's resistance to the entire scheme. But the opinions of the Center Party seem to count little. This will be clarified in the position at the time of the examination of the case of a new regional hospital in Trondheim, RIT 2000. The center party leader, Enoksen, boasts to the Address Paper that he understands that the project will be twice as expensive. However, this is only an empty talk when the government parties do not even support majority comments in the United Kingdom, which open up a new assessment of the costs of 1996. What shakes me the most is that the government parties do not actually take into account the fact that the completely necessary renewal of the hospital should not be charged to the county council's other activities. The centre party is completely outrun by the Christian People's Party in this matter, and I find it both reasonable and natural that the county rapporteur, Mrs. Frozen, will withdraw, as he himself has announced. It is crucial that regions can have fully competitive offers when free hospital choice is now to be introduced. Otherwise, both patients and personnel will flee to the eastern region, where the Bondevik government has not exactly saved on the condom in reimbursing bills for a first-class new national hospital in Oslo. The welfare state, with unanimous plans to step up care for the elderly, psychiatry, cancer care and new facilities for hospitals, as well as expenditure on public health, will require difficult financial statements in the years to come. If we're going to make all these promises, we need a long-term and credible program of value creation. That's why it's so important that work and education pay off.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2689	The President noted that the speakers who are now speaking have a speaking time limited to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2692	I was actually going to make a brief statement earlier on aspects of the budget, on how the Minister of Finance of this pulpit today almost requires evidence from the Storting for statements that he himself has made in this Chamber. But after the Prime Minister had his posts and his line changes, I'm going to have to make a statement about the Prime Minister instead. One thing is that our prime minister has resorted to some sort of self-confidence. It might be forgiven. It has also become a practice rhetoric for Prime Minister Bondevik to call the Workers' Party's warnings in all contexts of black paint. It can also be written in the political rhetoric account. But what I feel most impelled to say after having been present and overheard the exchange of lines here instead is the following: What makes the Prime Minister have to come to the Grand Duchy with such an arrogance as the one he demonstrated in his first exchange of lines with the representative Thorbjørn Jagland? What is it that makes the Prime Minister have to meet the largest opposition party in Stortinget with such a form of debate? I will be surprised if there are no more than I in this Chamber who respond to the Prime Minister's finding it necessary to meet factual lines of harelas. It's rare for me to say that from this pulpit, but I think it had to be said. It had to be said because it's not at all the first time, but it doesn't get better by repeating it. It is, as I see it, hardly worth a Prime Minister, nor is it worthy of the political debate. So I really must be allowed to express a hope and a wish that this will not be the form in which the Prime Minister will meet us in future debates. In that case, unfortunately, it does not promise well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2701	I will take up and justify the proposal from SV that is on the table today, because part of the balance sheet of the revision is revenue from business operations. When the budget was settled before Christmas, there was a need for more money, and the agreement between the government parties, the Advance Party and the Right took place, among other things. expressions in increasing returns on some small enterprises, ASs, owned by the country. The board's lawyer in these companies says it dry as follows: «The dividend proposal is justified by reasons other than those normally underlying the payment of dividends from a limited liability company in a competitive market.» It means in plain text that someone needed money and took them without knowing if it was possible, correct, desirable or proper. I guess no one had put in-depth knowledge of it right there and then. I know best one of these businesses. It is located in Åsne Municipality, the municipality of Hedmark, which has suffered most from unemployment, decline in population and jobs. There's not exactly any investment tree there that makes you think there'll be more jobs going up if the state breaks up. It was stressed when the company was established that it should be self-financing. They were granted equity and the State waived commitments to capital injections if necessary. This is why the company has saved and saved because they have to invest – they are competing in a market. They have had good and prudent business practices, as stated in the Share Act. Thanks for that is that once they have saved money to invest, the state comes and takes the money. The message to the employees is now that if you have a penny left over, you will see to it as soon as possible, otherwise they will come and pick it up. I do not think that a wise owner should behave like this. A long-term rather than speculative owner, which the State should be, should have a reasonable dividend requirement. SV has no objection that the state is operating business and that it is making money on it. We want with the proposal that the Storting should give the Government room to assess this dividend requirement more on the basis of what is realism than on the basis of what is a balancing need in a late night hour. If it's a desire from the government or the majority to sell the businesses, I think they'll have to say it openly, so it's clear to everyone. But I choose to think that those who were involved in this increased dividend requirement were really not aware of how it would turn out or whether the operation would be able to live with this in the long term. The alternative to that is planned murder, and I can't imagine that at all. That is why I am asking for support and positive signals on the proposal that I have put forward, so that the Government can assess this dividend requirement based on realistic business practices and long-term sustainability. I'm addressing the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2719	Karin Andersen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2722	Johan J. Jakobsen said earlier today that in a situation as special as it is now, a few things have to be done to control the economy, and then an acceptable cut in transport. But the next year, after I understood it, it was going to increase the bet on transportation. Well, whoever lives will see. But why do you have to be there and cut when it comes to racial protection? I'm thinking of all the promises given by the Center Party. If a non-trafficking bet would at least ensure that those who offered on routes where they were exposed to race would be assured. Why can't a not correct again the error that I also feel the government party has accepted that they took from those who at least lighted, the right to sick money? One says one should fix it, but not until the next year. All of these 200,000 mostly part-time women, who will have to wait another year to see that the government has the finances to settle for those who charge less than NOK 58 000. School-free timer cannot be used to cancel. Decentralized education cannot contribute to it. I think it's sad that the Center Party in all of this budget round chooses to go to the right, choose to bet on the things that don't give more to the close things, to municipalities, to schools, to children, but to other things, because they've turned to the Right and the Advance Party to get support. So today, a lot of words have been used to say that the unemployment rate is actually not higher. All the statistics that you refer to, all the numbers that you have in your predictions, show that there is no higher unemployment. But one doesn't have to travel far from Oslo. In the West, along the whole coast, one knows that when it is not invested in the offshore sector, when it is not invested in the yard industry, there are no jobs for next year. There must be a ready to do something about it now. That is why we have put all these proposals into revision too, what we said last year was necessary to do. For those who work at Stord, and for those who work at Aker Verdal, no such predictions are theory. For them, it is obvious that until the next year they stand without a job and thus without work. In the end, the working party and the Right have entered to increase the yield to fishing ports by 20 million. NOK, and this is listed in the wrong entry. It's okay. There is no need to correct it by making decisions, because these two entries, entry 30 and entry 60, are transferable to each other. But what's quite clear is that the Storting wants one to give more money to the state development of ports, and that's the post to be increased – entry 30.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2737	We know that there is always an interest in the signals given by the government through the revised national budget. This year, part of this interest is linked to the signal of measures and framework conditions for the shipbuilding and supply industries. These industries form spines and cornerstones for quite a number of beautiful communities along our coast. Because of the role of this industry, we know that the measures, among other things. The Christian People's Party is behind this case, being welcomed both by business and by community. Summaries I want to mention: One hundred million. kr for project-right technology development for petroleum sector phased closure of the production charge on the base extension of the Hurtigruta access system, with a view to the construction of two new ship licenses for the design of a new research vessel to the Marine Research Institute for the refurbishment of two refurbishment/reconversion of ferries Also, let's not forget that the yard support has already increased from 7 pst. to 9 pst. In order to mitigate the fluctuations in activity, especially in the supply industry, and to prevent loss of skills, I expect the Government to take the initiative to cooperate closely with industry actors, both to identify short-term measures and to evaluate the framework conditions for a mature base. The main objective of such an evaluation is to achieve binding and concrete results in the form of investments. We also note that in many of its regions, business and political governance are not passive and are just waiting for central government action. No, creativity, cooperation and willingness are being shown, on the move and a strong will to turn stones and to exploit new opportunities. As an example of this, I can mention interesting projects such as: both the ‘Westland programme for new industrial development based on natural gas’ and the so-called ‘Natural gas road’, which is a cooperative project of interest similar from the south to the trondelag. And we could have picked up a lot more. Therefore, I'm overconfident that these regions will still be able to adapt to new external conditions. And, therefore, such measures require handles from central powers of government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2771	I would like to touch on an important area for an industry, namely the level of taxation and taxation of those who operate air transport in Norway. This is an area that requires attention, new assessments must be carried out and done. In particular, with a background to competition both domestic and foreign, we see that action is now needed to enable us to have an effective, good spinal nourishment. It is particularly in two areas that we have already made improvements and will make decisions today. The Party of Workers, the Right Party and the Advance Party managed to distort the charges in respect of passengers, from a seat charge to a pure passenger charge. It was a step in the right direction. What we are doing now – and here the Workers' Party is included in a majority, together with the Right and the Advance Party – is to abolish the investment fee for the workshop service in aviation. This will have a major impact on the maintenance of important jobs in Norway and on maintaining competence in this industry in Norway. It is also important for preparedness reasons. This Decision will have an important concrete impact on the further development of Braathen’s workshop services, among others. on the Sun. The decision we are making tonight will have an impact date as of 1 July of the current year. The next major challenge in this industry is the question of VAT. This is linked to abroad-registered air carriers exempt from VAT on supplies and services. It goes without saying that this creates major competition differences in relation to Norwegian registered companies. On the part of the Workers' Party, we have clarified in our comment, together with the Right, that as soon as the rapid-working sample that has been set up is complete, a proposal must be drawn up by the Government, a legislative amendment that ensures full competition neutrality between airlines. In the Committee's comments, the majority say that this must be done as soon as possible, and at the latest in connection with the next year's budget. I have noticed that the government parties will take much better time. The Norwegian-owned companies probably can't afford that. Here there will be quite a number of Norwegian workplaces and Norwegian gaming skills if we spend too much time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2782	Who has said what about whether the interest rate goes up or down, I won't say anything about it, but I hope that someone each takes with him in his evening prayer that the oil price has to stay. It is very important for both well-being and distribution that we have a low unemployment rate, and today we have an unemployment rate that most European countries envy us, even though there are certain industries that have real problems. We've got a soft cyclical envelope. If I take examples from business in my own state, a lot of positive things happen. There is more investment in fishing boats, the fishing industry and farming than it has been in the ten previous years, and it is a very good signal to a population who in the good years of growth for the rest of the country experienced a strong depopulation. At the same time, the loss of the possibility of a differentiated employer fee creates concern in the future. In the context of the decision in May to convert from a seat charge to a passenger fee, the important exemption for a charter fee, which was part of a previous agreement between the centre parties, the Right and the Progress Party, fell. I therefore propose, on behalf of these five parties, a proposal, No. 80, which has been distributed in the Chamber, to reintroduce the derogation for the charter fee in the action zone from 1 June of this year. The exemption has very little proceeds, but competitively this means a great deal to travel in Finnland, which is in strong competition with the tourism industry in northern Finland. This is an important measure to prevent Finland’s travel life from annexing Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2794	Randi Karlstrøm has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2797	In view of the fact that I was a little surprised at the contribution the Prime Minister made, I have to admit that I could imagine having a pious wish towards the Prime Minister, and it might be that he allowed the analysis a little more space in his post and the polemics a little less space in his reply. Of course, a Prime Minister is allowed to enjoy the things that go well in Norway – and fortunately that is not so small. In the Workers' Party we also enjoy a decline in interest rates, although we see that it is modest in pace and not very great in relation to our surroundings. We're glad that most people have work. We are pleased that many things are useful in the Norwegian economy. But we can't stop there. Our country has some formidable challenges of innovation in value creation, of how to deal with our older people in the care community, and not least how to provide our young people with the education they and society otherwise require. These are very demanding tasks, because there are tasks that need to be solved together and where you need to avoid, for example: a weak community economy means that resources are diverted from one area to another in several actions that we want to solve, and preferably resolve at the same time. That does not mean that the Labour Party is waving from the agenda to the agenda in what we want to put on the political agenda. That means that we realize that these issues need to be resolved jointly. What we would very much like to enter into dialogue with the Government and, in particular, with the Prime Minister, is how we can jointly analyse these problems, these formidable challenges for a Norway where, fortunately, very much different is going very well. Because that is what is the answer to tomorrow's challenges. We must not be so modest, even though we must not be so black-headed that we are only content to rejoice over the prosperity of our generation of Northmen today. That is why the Labour Party wants a debate on these fundamental issues in this debate, and not least in the budget debate we are having for the autumn. It is not certain that all our political solutions will coincide, but I hope that the Government and the Prime Minister will also present themselves in it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2810	I agree with Tom Thoresen that we are facing major challenges in our society. I'm also calm and secure that the government will meet these challenges in a solid and good way. As we approach the end of this debate, I will state the following: essentially, the Government receives support for its priorities in the revised budget. The Norwegian economy is solid, something more speakers have underlined and stressed. The unemployment rate is still low, but with uncertainty in relation to developments in the shipbuilding and offshore sectors, and as I said in my main post, we have a situation in the labour market with pressure in the public service sector, while the economic situation may become weaker for competitive business. This is very important that we have the attention in the time to come. I'd like to make a few comments about the voting we're facing. First of all, I want to draw suggestion number. 6, to avoid getting it down. Secondly, I would like to encourage the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party to make proposal No. 8 a to a transmission proposal, as the Government has announced that this will be positively assessed in connection with the budget for the autumn. If it's not sent without a motion of reality, I'm going to have to get the center party to vote against. I would also like to encourage the Progress Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party and the Trans-Political People's Election to make the verbal presentation under proposal No. 12 to submit proposals. If not, I must advise you to vote against the centre. Proposal No. 83, from SV, I would like to ask the proposer to turn it into a transmission proposal, among other things. on the basis of letters from the Minister of Agriculture to the Socialist Left today. One may say so that the centre parties support the intention of the submitted. Finally, I will notify subsidiary support from the centre party to the cap. 571 heading 65.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2823	The President has registered that Lars Gunnar Lie has now drawn proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2826	I accept that we are converting proposal No. 12, the verbal proposal, for a transmission proposal, and adds to it the expectation that the government intends to fulfill it. That's what you normally do. Earlier today, the political spokespersons of the Progress Party raised two questions that she was not answered. We have the habit of answering questions when we get it, and treating everyone with the same respect and respect, so I'm answering this right now. The reason why we do not vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party on the reorganization of popular security is that we totally disagree with that, which is contrary to the whole of the Social Security Fund. We do not want such a conversion, therefore no investigation either. Answering question 1, why we do not want a separate Commission to assess what the framework conditions are in Norway for business versus the EU or Europe, is that it is already under assessment by a sample led by Professor Holden who actually has this in his mandate, and two selections to do the same do not need us, therefore we do not vote in favour of the proposal. Back to the debate on the level of interest. I have to repeat what I said earlier today. It is serious when the Head of Government and the Minister of Finance of the Government are outrageous in their attitude to what the Government has said about the interest rate question, and what is actually the main objective of economic policy. Everyone acknowledges that no one can promise anything about this, therefore we have not asked about it either. But we've asked what is the Government's forecast, or what the Government is suggesting, in terms of interest rate developments. What the Minister of Finance said in reply earlier today was as follows: «... I would like Per-Kristian Foss to document that last autumn I said we should go down towards a European interest rate level in the next year.» I document it, and the quote that has been given from the pulpit of the representative Jan Petersen is from the spontaneous question hour of February 17th, and it reads like this: ‘The main purpose of the budget was to facilitate a reduction in interest rates towards the European level during 1999 and we still hope to do so.’ What the Minister of Finance himself said about this was as follows: ‘I never said that.’ Yes, the Minister of Finance has said that. He has created hopes of a level of interest down to the European level during 1999. He must now go up to the pulpit and confirm or cancel. If he insists, there are two possibilities: either the record from the spontaneous questioning session is wrong – I have no reason to believe that – or the government has changed its mind about this. There need to be further justification.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2852	So far in the debate, so far today, most of the issues that could be debated in the context of the budget review are discussed. But there is one theme that is only superficially mentioned, and then in reply from the Left. In particular Gunnar Kvassheim, who was so inexorably proud that the profile of the central parties still dominated the budget, expressed some apprehension that the Workers' Party once again proposed to remove the reimbursement scheme for seafarers. Just to remind you of it, exactly this part of the profile actually carries the Right Stamp. For there was only the prospect of losing the government power that forced the government to continue this scheme in the harvest. Of course, we are very pleased that the government has taken it so seriously that Kvassheim, and also Terje Johansen, have defended it in today's debate. We also believe that the Labour Party has escaped cheaply. They've talked a lot about their concerns about the jobs in District Norway, and it's a concern we have in Right hand parts. The Court’s proposal for a revised budget reflects this concern in our proposed measures in relation to the oil-related industries in particular. But what the Workers' Party is not talking about is that they are looking for containment for their proposals by removing the reimbursement scheme for seafarers. So what the Labour Party is proposing is to shift the threat of increasing unemployment from the shipbuilding industry to the maritime industries. If seafarers are unemployed, they also have no role in the Workers' Party. If this had come from another party, it would have been alarming. But because the Labour Party presents this proposal for the fifth time in two years, it gets passed in almost silence. In fact, I think that when the largest party in the country is engaged in a continuous fight against Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships, attention should be paid. I also think it is serious that the Workers' Party, which is so concerned with the yard industry, also the part of the yard industry that builds ships, is making such strenuous efforts to destroy the system that was in place, which was just to ensure that the value creation of maritime industries was in Norway, including the shipbuilding industry. This comes from the largest opposition party in Stortinget, and we like to think that there should be some serious attention.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2865	The Prime Minister said in his intervention that the reason why so few promises from the Adult Declaration were fulfilled was that the Government had only been sitting for two years. They had two years left, and then this was to be done. It raises some questions, for how in the world are they going to get it forward, if they keep going on in the same track? I do not understand that the Adult Declaration is legally binding, but it must at least signal some of the direction you intend to go. The possibilities to go in the direction that the Government wants are there in terms of the economy. It is in the government's policy that it has castrated itself, both in terms of distribution policy, environmental policy and municipal economy. For Norway, it is not a country that has become poorer under Bondevik. The state is richer, most of us are richer, but some have become substantially poorer. The local economy has become worse, there have not been fewer kroner, but the municipalities have received many more tasks, and then they have not received the money that would accompany them. It was one of the things that stood black on white in the Adultås statement, that it was going to gap this government close again. But it's getting bigger. The gap between poor and rich has grown. This concerns us in SV, because there are important value issues we're talking about now. It is an important issue of value and morals if, in a rich country, Norway can accept that differences are increasing, and that services that are very important both for society and for individuals are getting worse. During the debate now on the municipal economic proposition, there have been signals both from SV – it was probably not a big surprise – and from the Workers' Party that they were actually willing to spend money on the table. I thought that then there was at least some relief sigh from some of the members of the Government who would say that yes, there was a small opportunity, we might use it. But I didn't experience it at all. I felt on the contrary a rather cold shoulder, and that one was rather concerned about defending and explaining and maneuvering even more into a position where one said that this was not important. I find that rather disappointing, because I – and SV – were of those who were initially very positive to this government, and would give them a chance. But it's starting to rush, because I don't know if I believe so much more in this. I wish Mr Bondevik could now explain how, over the next two years, he will achieve this turn, that there will be fewer differences, that the local economy and services will be better, and that, for example: can reduce kindergarten prices, school leisure prices and excesses, because it has been promised. And I can't see that the cooperation partners Right and the Progress Party have promised the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2876	I am a member of a party and participate in political work because I believe in what I work with. And I don't accept that a prime minister meets my leader, the leader of the largest party, in a bad way. I am not used to such treatment where I come from. The Prime Minister has an opposition to deal with matters – an opposition that has been very constructive through the sick leave of the Prime Minister and through the regime of the Government in NATO and the war of Norway. There were many situations that could have been exploited, but they were never used. I now know after hearing the Prime Minister here today, that he would have used it to the full, if he was in opposition. I'm horrified and unhappy at what a Prime Minister from the Christian People's Party experiences.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2883	At the end of the debate, let me say that I have, of course, registered the posts of Hill-Marta Solberg, Tom Thoresen and, to the extent that Eirin fell now, regarding the exchange of lines with the head of the Workers' Party earlier today. Let it be quite clear, if someone were to be in doubt about it, that I take the playoffs, invitations and questions seriously from the opposition leader. Actually, I have a lot of respect for Jagland. Of course, I didn't mean to be either hoarse or arrogant, and I have some problems seeing what in the specific article that was supposed to tell me that I was. I have intended to stay within the framework of the polemics for which there must be room for a succession in the national parliament of the country. But if it's perceived differently, of course, I'm sorry about that. But to go to the matter, for that is the one we should discuss: at least let it be clear that I agree that facilitating education, innovation and work is absolutely central. In fact, I believe that we have also facilitated it through a number of measures, but we have to go on. Let me mention measures such as the reform of competences, greater local freedom in the education sector, priority for health and IT – where we now need to educate more – the research fund, increased interaction between school and society through entrepreneurship, improvement of study funding, more resources for school management, etc. That's why I'm reacting a little bit when it's presented as if we haven't done anything for education and innovation. I think that is completely wrong, it must be allowed to say. But we would like to cooperate on further action, and we would like to discuss it with the Labour Party, I am sincere when I say that, even when we come to the budget procedure of the harvest. It may be a little problematic if the relatively few private schools we have in Norway, where 1.5 pst. by the students go, produced as a colossal threat to public schools. If it's going to be the premise for cooperation, it's going to be problematic. But if you can look beyond it and accept that the Private School Act has been passed, has a majority in the Grand Duchy and gives you a right to another school from the point of view of life, pedagogics or because it fills a quantitative need, you can probably work together on other educational and innovation measures. This is also true in relation to what the representative Karin Andersen mentioned. As I said, we're going to present a big message about supersampling. There will also be some proposals for action to raise those who have fallen behind, and we will analyse who it is in the communication. But I think we also have to be willing to look at measures that allow those who have the best in society to pay more into the community. Overall, it can give you a greater equalization. So it shouldn't be on the Government's will to cooperate with different parties. I was also going to say in my main post, but so far I didn't get the script, that I also want to thank the different parties in the Stortinget, who in a difficult situation with minority government have helped to find solutions to the different issues.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2896	When I ask for the word, it's because I got an invitation from Per-Christian Foss in his last post. He wanted to come back to the interest rate question again, he said. And the interest rate question has been on Per-Kristian Foss for a long time, among other things. during spontaneous Questionnaire hours. And also here today, Per-Kristian Foss has been dealing with the interest rate question. Per-Cristian Foss said that everyone admits that no one can promise anything about interest rate developments, but that actually has Per-Cristian Foss assigned me on several occasions. Earlier years and twice in his speech today, he claims that the Minister of Finance has promised some particular level of interest. I can't admit that I've done that, and I thought Per-Kristian Foss got to document it, if I should have promised anything. But I've had my views on interest rate developments, and it's documented, among other things. in what Jan Petersen quoted, and which also Per-Christian Foss pointed out. This can, of course, be discussed, because this is also a question of when it is expected that Norwegian interest rates may come down to the European level in 1999 or later. Towards the European level, moving down towards the European level, one must necessarily come this year, for it is said that there will be a gradual reduction in interest rates. But on several occasions I have said publicly – and certainly also here in the Chamber – that I am expecting a further fall in interest rates next year. So if someone's perceived me as reaching the goal already in the current year, and then having a further decline next year, it must mean that we're going to pass and get under the European interest rate level. I believe that this is neither possible nor desirable. Then I understand that there are many who have misinterpreted what we have tried to communicate in terms of interest rate developments. For example, there was a very big misunderstanding about a plan that I showed during a press conference on 10 May, when the revised national budget was presented. Among the other businesses in the day, the technical manufacturing that was shown there could be interpreted as if we were getting an interest rate in Norway of 3.75 p.m. already at the end of the current year. It was simply a misunderstanding that we made sure that today's business was made aware of, but unfortunately the paper continued to run the same disc afterwards. So I have not said, and I have not promised at all, how far down to the European level we are going to go. But the interest rate trend we've had now, with a 2 percentage point reduction this year, in four rounds, is well in line with the assumptions made when the national budget was presented last autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2915	Now, when we hear the Minister of Finance, I have to say that there is a lot of strange Stortinget to spend time on. I must be allowed to recall what he said in the Question Time of 17 February this year, namely: ‘My answer remains the same: the main part of the budget was to facilitate a reduction in interest rates towards the European level during 1999, and we still hope to do so.’ So this is the most important thing about the budget. And I cannot see this as anything but a political objective, which the Minister of Finance confirms to this end that he has faith that he will achieve. Let's see what he said this morning – so there was no doubt that this was a goal. The only thing he was concerned about then was the time when that goal was to be achieved, for he said: ‘I have, among other things: to TV 2 said that I still have the belief that Norwegian interest rates could come down to European level in the next year, and that is the year 2000 – so we are not in doubt about it, that next year is the year 2000. If the Minister of Finance is now trying to get away from changing his main objective here in the budget, that he now says something quite different about the time he has done before, he will have to try it, but I'm not sure if he should bother Stortinget – and take speaking time – with just that exercise. Now I think that both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance should just as well raise their hands in the weather and say, ‘Sorry’, we have redefined our objectives, we have not had the backbone to hold back the expenditure on the budget, and therefore this will cost Norwegian interest-payers a lot more money in the time to come. And those interest-payers are individuals and the family, it's the company that creates jobs, and it's the municipality that has to take care of it. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2932	The Prime Minister now just asked what it was that made Hill-Marta Solberg call his reply to me arrogant. Well, I asked the Prime Minister a specific question, which has not yet been answered, nor in the last article. I asked, does the Prime Minister worry that the school leisure system has become significantly more expensive during the year, leading to the first withdrawal of low-income children from this scheme? Does he worry that kindergartens are also becoming significantly more expensive? In the case of private schools, the Prime Minister points out that there is a majority in the UK that will support such schools and that there is only 1.5 pst. by the students who go there. That's not what the debate is about. The Prime Minister must be aware that there is a new trend in this area. It is that there are far more such private schools that have been approved, and one public school has already been closed because of it. And today, in our country, there is a danger that another public school may be closed. Another thing is that there are many applications in the department, much more than before. What will the government do with these applications? Is it only necessary to continue to approve so that they can automatically receive public support? It is also new that one approves schools that cannot be said to be operating according to the curriculum adopted here in Stortinget. The debate has not responded to why the Government can accept the slippage we see in fiscal policy. It was considered during last year's presentation of the State budget that 9 billion DKK in curtailment was absolutely necessary. Now it's more than halved, expenditure growth doubles, and the use of oil money doubles. The government refers to the reactions of the market. This is also new, using the market's short-term assessments as a basis for fiscal policy. How short-sighted this is, we have seen this week: until Wednesday, I don't think the market was aware of what was going on with financial policy, but yesterday and today, because today's business began to write about it, market reactions have begun to change. And when the Minister of Finance also swings from one to the next in terms of the view of interest rates, you can be concerned about what kind of assessments you use. We must be able to demand that the Government have independent assessments of the kind of financial policy to be pursued here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2945	We have a finance minister who constantly claims that he is misinterpreted, and it is well possible that the Storting wants to misinterpret the finance minister. But it's also a reality that he's speaking unclearly. At the same time, I have to say that the kind of discussion about the interest rate that we have here is politics at its worst. Who said what exactly when, and how do you interpret what you said, and have you just said that? Then you find a newspaper and an old quote and thus prove that the finance minister has said something. And I'm sure he said it. I am absolutely convinced that we have said many things here in the staging room in other contexts that are not necessarily always perfectly precise and as wise as we would like to say. What is the reality is that, fortunately, the interest rate has fallen by 2 pst. This is good for Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian households. The government has limited honor for this, there can be no doubt about it. That the government has had a unclear fiscal policy, there can be no doubt either. But it has, in truth, also had the opposition. The opposition is now adding to more than what the government has presented. SV actually tightens in more. That kind of discussion I think is unfortunate. We can only hope that the oil price will stay high in the future, because the oil price – as confirmed by the Minister of Finance before today – is a very important reason why trust in the Norwegian economy is good. The reason I took the floor was not interest rate discussion, because as I said in many ways, politics is at its worst. The reason was that Prime Minister Bondevik said in his speech that the disparity had planned to take action to raise those at the bottom, and also look at tax rules for those at the top. That's absolutely right. If the Prime Minister intends to propose it, that's fine. For many years SV has pointed out the unfairness of our tax system, that we have a tax system that favors those who are at the top, those who get their income from shares and not those who get their income from honest work. And if the Prime Minister wants to meet it, that's good, because there's no other way to redistribute benefits in a society than distribution policy, tax policy. But it is not possible for the Prime Minister to get through the kind of distribution measures with the Right and the Advance Party. Through four budgets, we have now seen that the only thing that matters to the Right and the Advance Party is to cut public consumption and save the private. Most of the time we saw it in the state budget last year, when the whole curtailment came in public consumption, and not one penny in private consumption. If it is to be possible to move in the direction in which the Prime Minister was now in – and in which SV agrees with the heart – it is not possible to imagine that in relation to the government budget of the autumn, a settlement will be made with the Right Party and the Advance Party. If you want to go in that direction, Prime Minister Bondevik and the Government must try to find out more about a dialogue not only with Carl I. Hagen and Jan Petersen, but also with those who can form a majority on the other side. That means you have to invite in the other direction, and not just turn your face to the right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2958	Per-Christian Foss has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2961	The debate on interest rates is not just about who said what. It is about whether the Government has understood and continues to know its main economic policy objectives. For most voters, this is about a lot of money – the difference in an interest rate jump of 4.5 p.p. and, fortunately, it goes down to half of it and stays there for a long time. This means for most people with loans, student loans and mortgages, thousands of dollars, so this isn't a debate about theoretical fiction. Unfortunately, what remains is that the finance minister denies what he himself has said in the Stortinget. What remains is that every time the Minister of Finance makes his statement, either to the press or to the market, he is misunderstood. It may be due to something other than the market and something other than the overall pressure. I would recommend a clearer way to express myself, and I would recommend, as Jan Petersen: either say it as it is, that you have changed the goal! The 1999 target has been launched until 2000. People will notice that anyway. So say it just as well right away instead of waiting and letting it trick people into thinking about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2968	Hill-Marta Solberg has the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2971	Let me just first note that the Prime Minister in his last round on the pulpit made a somewhat more atoning and different tone than what we met earlier in the debate, and that naturally appreciates both me and – I think – the rest of the storeroom. At the same time, I must say that there is once again some wonder that the Prime Minister himself did not perceive what was the harelas in his form of debate earlier today. What was really my concern to ask for the floor was that we were invited to draw a proposal, proposal No. 8, a proposal made by the Workers' Party and SV in the setting, on sick pay for low pay. We have been invited to convert it into a transmission proposal. Unfortunately, we cannot respond to that call. We believe it is important that the Storting should deal with the specific proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2978	It was just a comment and an answer to some of the questions that the representative, Mr. Jagland, asked me in his last post. I understood that what he had reacted to in connection with the line change was that he felt that I had not answered any specific questions about fares in the school leisure system and in the nursery system. I hope it doesn't feel arrogant, but I actually responded to this in my second reply to the representative, Jagland. Then I said, and I like to repeat it now, that we know that when it comes to increasing rates both to the school leisure system and to kindergartens, it varies from municipality to municipality. Of course, it also worries me and the Government that someone is getting a significant and unreasonable increase. But I also answered Jagland's specific questions as to whether we should send out a sort of directive that the municipalities should not do anything like this, that it is difficult for a government, when the municipal economy for next year has passed the Stortinget, to issue directives that can act as putting municipal autonomy out of action on such issues. So I've commented on this. So until the representative Igland took up when it came to private schools, where it was produced so that there is now a very worrying development in approving the number of schools. I can give the following specific information: from 1990 to 1991 until now, i.e. the last decade, the increase has been 0.29 p.m., i.e. 2.9 per million. And seriously, I don't think it's a massive increase that would represent a dangerous attack on the public school system. In the case of curricula, it has always been that both schools built on an alternative pedagogical structure, such as: Steinerschule, and Life-Sighting Schools, are granted derogations from the curriculum, but no derogation is granted that goes beyond the essential principle of providing private schools with similar training as the public school. It doesn't necessarily mean equal training, but a corresponding one. This is the principle of the private school law, and in this case it must be changed if one is to do so. The contested ACE scheme is not accepted as a pedagogical option in Norwegian private schools. Finally, the representative, Jagland, said that the reactions of the market in the last few days after today's business began to write about the budget had become so negative. I don't quite understand that. According to what I have been informed, according to the latest newscast that went on, 8,14 in relation to the euro, which is counted as an average of European currencies. It is probably the strongest initial price that has been in the Norwegian krona in the year and day. This does not indicate a lack of confidence in the Norwegian economy and the krona. Then there would be completely different numbers than this. As far as I know, this is also a stronger price than the one that actually was when the interest rate was set down a few days ago.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e2993	The Prime Minister now said that the payment in the school leisure scheme varies from municipality to municipality. It is true, but what cannot be doubted is that prices have increased significantly due to the cut-off in the government appropriations for the 130 million school leave. NOK, and that's what makes us get these big rate increases in a lot of municipalities. The Workers' Party has not asked the Government to send a directive to the municipalities that it should not continue to increase the tariffs. What we've said is, the government can tell the municipalities that you don't have to add increased parental pay for next year, because the government is going to fix what happened when, for example, it did. is the school leisure scheme, in the budget for the year 2000? We now have several municipalities that plan tariff increases even before the budgets are to be treated for the autumn. And we have clear signals that very many municipalities are going to add tax increases to the 2000 budget both for the school leisure system and for kindergartens, and that there will also be cuts in public school funding. So here we need a strong signal in the period that we are in now, when the municipalities are preparing the budget for the year 2000. In the case of private schools, the Prime Minister referred to figures from 1991 until now. But the point is that it is now that we have a strong increase in the number of applications, and that it is a new trend, and that is what the Government must have an attitude to. Otherwise, I want to say, the market – what is it? Yes, there are people who respond. And what we've noticed is that, after it's come to fruition -- fortunately, at least one newspaper has started to write about how the shift in financial policy is -- there's become a lot of other tones in people who have opinions about it and who affect it. And what you can be afraid of is that if fiscal policy is exposed to that kind of reaction all the time, and if the government actually bases its analysis on such short-term assessments that are made, well, we get a development that swings violently. I have to say that I wonder where Djupedal is when he can say that he hopes that the oil prices will stay high. That is clearly the policy at present. That's what the policy was in 1998, hoping that oil prices would be high, they fell, and then we got this huge interest rate increase. And then you keep hoping that the oil price that went up again will stay high. There can be no good management tool.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3007	When the representative, Mr Jagland, points out the concern that the prices of kindergartens and school leisure arrangements are increasing quite radically around the borders with the consequences that the representative, Mr Jagland, said, the Prime Minister responds by saying that it is difficult for governments to give directives to the municipalities, and that the municipality structure has passed the Stortinget. I consider this to be a discharge, because the municipality that we dealt with here in Stortinget two days ago was the arrangement that the Government presented, and that we in the Workers' Party clearly said was too bad because we just want more kindergartens to be built, that the places in the kindergartens should be cheaper, that the school leisure system should be cheaper, and in addition we will take care of the public school. And then the Prime Minister talks about that he's now concerned about distribution policy. But then he must be in practice too, because this policy has such a tight community structure that it leads – as Mr Jagland said – to the fact that the weakest children are now being taken out. It's the children's protection being taken out of the kindergarten, and it's the immigrant children, who need to go there to learn Norwegian. It's the children being taken out of the kindergarten. And then it's no use saying that it's difficult to do something because the local authorities have passed the Stortinget. It's possible to do something about it, and there's one answer to it: it's giving money to the municipalities, so they're able to do that job. There is a choice that the Government has made, with which the Workers' Party strongly disagrees. It is also clear to the Government that if it wants to cooperate with us, there will be more money for the municipalities. But so far, the government has chosen to go another way, which has meant that there will be less money for the municipalities – which means that it will be smaller for kindergartens and schools – and that we have so far not managed to get to all that we should have done in relation to the care of the elderly. I hope that there may be a little more honesty in what you say and do. We hope that it is possible to give the clear signal to the municipalities, as the representative Jagland says, that one should not lay down even more kindergartens – it should go the opposite way – that one should not increase the prices as it is now and as has been done in some places already, so that we can manage to keep more kindergartens and keep the children there. But there's one answer to that, and it's giving more money, and it has so far not been willing to do so. So far 1998 is the worst year for the whole of the 1990s for the municipal sector. 1999 appears to be even worse. There will be neither more kindergartens, better school leisure arrangements, nor better schooling.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3022	Karin Andersen has had the word twice, and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3026	With regard to the prices of children's playgrounds and the municipal maritime administration, a very simple way of saying it is that the municipal settlement is so big and government says: so many tasks do you have, so much money makes you do this, the rest you have to get a sail. You've been doing that for a long time, and last year you did, too. The result was an increase in own resources, i.e. the price of kindergartens, school leave, home care, etc. The price of a daycare centre increased last year by an average of 6 pst, the price of the school leisure system increased by an average of 12 pst. And the price of home help increased by 6 pst., while the consumer price index increased, I think, by 2.4 pst. I'm not sure if the decimal is right. It means that there are no municipalities or any other places this increases – it's everywhere. The municipal maritime administration is not at all threatened by big business and government being able to say: to next year we're doing this differently, we don't want any increase. SV actually suggested it in the treatment of the municipal economic proposition, and I registered that the Workers' Party did not vote for it either.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3033	Several have not asked for the word, and thus... – Councillor Gudmund Restad.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3038	I'm sorry, sir. President if I hadn't given clear enough signs, but at least I meant to ask for the word. However, I am very much in doubt whether it has any intention of continuing the debate on interest with Per-Christian Foss, because Per-Christian Foss is used to getting the last word. I must also be able to say that I agree with Mr Djupedal that this is a policy at its worst, and I think we should be happy that there is no greater audience during such debates. Let me just, for the sake of order, although it should be a matter of course, quote a sentence from the 1999 national budget. On page 95, right hand column, it says: ‘When the Norwegian krona is to be kept stable against European currencies, the European level of interest will guide the level of interest in Norway’. It should be a matter of course, and we have a monetary policy that makes European interest rates guide our interest rate levels. So it's true, as Jan Petersen pointed out, that the government clearly stated that the main thing about the budget that we provided last autumn was to bring down the interest rate. The interest rate was at a totally unacceptable high level and the main thing about the budget, as I said, was to get interest down. And interest rates have gone down – as a result of some of the budget, but I agree that it is also a consequence of other factors. Not least, the oil price has had an impact on our downward interest rate – just as a strong reduction in oil prices last year was an important explanation that, unfortunately, interest rates went wrong. So it's not like it's been insinuated, yes, not just insinuated, but actually asserted with force, that the government has redefined its objective of what the budget is going to lead to, i.e. a reduced interest rate. We haven't redefined a goal. It's still important that interest rates go down. I think we should be happy together that so far this year we have had four interest rate reductions of half a percentage point, and so far we have had an interest rate reduction of 2 percentage points in 1999. I believe that conditions should allow us to have a further fall in interest rates, both over the rest of 1999 and beyond, into the year 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3056	I find it quite remarkable that the Minister of Finance feels the call to evaluate the Biggest debates and the number of members of the Biggest debates. I actually thought the finance minister had other tasks than that. Once this debate has evolved as it has, to become a debate on the debate, it is actually due to the present representatives of the Government and their actions. It might perhaps be an idea for the Minister of Finance if he is to present categorical dementias in the future, and I do not want to exclude the possibility that he might need it, that he would then put it this way: I have never said this and at least not meant it. I noticed that the Prime Minister, in the change of lines, who triggered the rather lengthy debate on the debate, used up to several times the expression: this government has ‘significant humility’. It's also a remarkable, almost paradoxical form of communication. I've always felt that if you have humility, you don't have to say it. And if you feel the need to say that, it might be a sign that both you and the world are in doubt about whether humility is there. I think it's better to practice humility than to advertise it. So last but not least, the Labour Party has made much of this debate a school debate. But the remarkable thing is that there is a completely empty school debate. For the Workers' Party's rhetoric about school bets, a mouse has been born in the alternative budget proposal, and there is a slight increase in the school leisure system. That's the big stake in the future, in school and youth. It's a little weird if you're really concerned about school, and there's every reason to be, that you don't, for example. is willing to participate in the increase of the Right in terms of the apprenticeship system, which is a crucial quality promotion issue in secondary education. I don't think you're into that. It is not on the Right's proposal to strengthen further education and training for teachers, both in primary and secondary schools. It's like if there's a distance between life and learning, it's the life that's the most interesting and not the learning. I have to say that I look forward to the Workers' Party taking its own rhetoric seriously and really starting to bet on school and education.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3071	I'm sorry to waste more time, but after listening to the Minister of Finance, I have to say that I think it's becoming more and more revealing how incredibly unspeakable he is in what we're discussing. So now he managed to make a complete statement as if this debate were about whether or not interest rates were going to fall in 1999. That's not what the discussion is about. It is very precise about the following policy objectives — which the Minister of Finance, in a previous speech, christened to have ‘points of view’ of the interest rate policy: to facilitate a reduction in interest rates, and then what he forgot on the move: down to the European level during 1999. So here's two things that the Minister of Finance forgot for some selfish reason, both the level of interest to which he was going to go, and the time he was dealing with earlier today. I must say that I think this is getting worse and worse! I have not mentioned the Prime Minister's posts, because he was probably led by the Minister of Finance to become a little more offensive than what he had short to be, so I'm going to be kind enough to ignore the Prime Minister's posts. But I must say that now the Minister of Finance must simply step up!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3080	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three. [[See page 4226]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3094	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4266]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3110	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4266]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3126	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4266]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3142	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4266]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3154	When I now ask for the floor, it is because I want to propose that the suspension as it exists be returned to the Presidency for review. I would like this topic to be voted on before we go into the reality of the matter. However, I would just like to have very brief arguments as to why such a proposal is made at the beginning of the debate on this matter. The reason is quite brief: after the release, there have been some things, and there have been some things that have become known that make me think it would be reasonable for the Presidency to re-treat this setting. In the magazine Friheten, dated 11 June 1999, Stein Ørnhøi is quoted as saying, in a meeting held in Trondheim on 5 June: ‘He left no doubt that an undeclared war against a sovereign state without a UN mandate was to be regarded as a war crime, and the responsible Norwegian politicians were to be regarded as war criminals.’ By this, which through the quote shall be pronounced, I believe that there must be good reason to look at the Inn. S. No 77 for 1997-98, which was dealt with in Stortinget and which was the guidelines when the Stortinget decided that the Presidency should make proposals for candidates for the EOS Committee. I will not give in to a long quotation round, but briefly get to quote it as an overall committee expresses on page 2 of the setting: ‘In order to provide the sample with the necessary credibility to the democratic processes, the sample must therefore have a composition that ensures broad confidence. This presupposes that the sample consists of members who enjoy respect for integrity and, at the same time, have extensive experience in Norwegian society.’ With this quote as the basis, I believe that there must obviously be a breach of the assumptions of the Storting itself as criteria for appointment. I am aware that Stein Ørnhøi has sent a letter to the President of Storing, dated 18 June 1999, and I shall quote very briefly from this: ‘Without access to notes, it is impossible for me two weeks afterwards to confirm or cancel what I should have said and how I have expressed myself.’ After my conviction, the Stortinget and the Presidency would be served a review on this basis, and I therefore make a proposal that the matter should be sent back to the Presidency. If this proposal were to fall, I would be allowed to return to the ordinary procedure of the matter, if that were the case, to a more detailed explanation of the matter from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3178	The representative Hans J. Røsjorde has proposed that the matter be referred back to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3181	The term of office of the EOS Committee shall expire on 30 June. Since this is the last day of the session, I believe it is necessary to settle the matter today, so that we can get the new representatives of the EOS Committee appointed before we split up. With regard to the record in Freedom to which the representative Hans J. Røsjorde referred, I just have to admit that I was somewhat disturbed, but I recorded that this was not a quote from Stein Ørnhøi, but it was a record from a meeting Stein Ørnhøi had held a – probably engaged – post on. But because the record bothered me, I contacted Stein Ørnhøi yesterday and asked him to elaborate on what was in the record. It is true, as Hans J. Røss soile said, that he replied back today that he – since he was sitting in the churches and did not have access to his notes – did not have a full overview of how he had expressed himself, but he pronounced on it for me quite vital point: ‘For me, it is a strange idea that the Norwegian Storting should be made up of war criminals.’ Based on that clarification, I cannot see that there is reason to assume that there would be any other conclusion from a new treatment in the Presidency, and I would recommend that we deal with the matter now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3195	Continued until the proposal for a postponement: I noticed that the prime minister said it would be appropriate to deal with the matter now, because the sample was to be renewed after a given deadline. I can't see it any other way than that it must be fully possible for the Presidency to be able to re-apply the matter, because the sample will be able to function until a new decision has been taken. Waiting a few months to get an assessment on a better and broader basis, and in that way maybe also finding a common candidate, I would find it practical if it were willing to do so. And it could also be thought of the solution that Stortinget actually authorized the Presidency to appoint members after a review. It would probably require a somewhat difficult procedure, but I am in the process that it will be fully practicable for the Presidency to be able to deal with this matter, and the function of the sample will not suffer from it – rather on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3202	Several have not asked for the floor for Mr Røsjorde's proposal, and there is a call for a vote on the proposal. After it had been called to the vote for 5 minutes, said
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3207	At the beginning of the proceedings, the Court ruled: 8 on the EOS Committee, Hans J. Røsjorde has put forward a proposal that the matter should be returned to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3217	We shall then proceed to the substantive debate on the matter. Eight. The President will propose that the debate be limited to one 5 minute post from each party group. Can the President agree to this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3222	I have no problem joining the main idea of the President's proposal, but I think it would be useful for the President-in-Office of the Grand Duchy first to promote the majority proposal of the Presidentship of the Grand Duchy as the President-in-Office of the Grand Duchy, that the Vice-President of the Grand Duchy, Hans J. Røsjorde, was then presented with the proposal of the minority in the Presidency, and that one post was then allowed by each party group. Because there's a little difference between a batch post and an entry from a member of the Presidency in the last feature.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3227	The President has no objection to Mr Hagen's proposal, and asks the House to support it. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3233	The term of office of three of the members of the Steering Committee on Intelligence, Surveillance and Security ends in the summer. This concerns Rikard Olsvik, Kjersti Graver and Stein Ørnhøi. Mr. Olsvik has announced that he does not want re-election. Kjersti Graver and Stein Ørnhøi have, on request, agreed to make re-elections. The Presidency proposes that Ambassador Leif Mevik be elected as a new member and chairman of the committee. Mevik has background and qualities that, in the opinion of the Presidency, make him very fit for this job. We are pleased that he has also wanted to take on the demanding and responsible job it is to lead the sample. Furthermore, the Presidency proposes that magistrate Kjersti Graver be re-elected as a member. The majority of the presidency, all except Vice-President Hans J. Røsjorde, will point out that the EOS Committee is within its first period. Kjersti Graver has been a member for only one year, while Stein Ørnhøi has been a member for three years. The majority emphasise the need to maintain the competence and continuity of the sample. The majority believe that even though the Stortinget is dealing with Document No. 8:31 in 1997-98, with the wish to reduce the party political composition of the EOS Committee, the majority does not interpret it as completely excluding the appointment of members associated with any political party. However, what will always be important is that the EOS Committee be composed in such a way that it has competence across a wide range and is representative of its composition and breadth. The majority believe that both Kjersti Graver and Stein Ørnhøi have done a good and thorough job in the sample, and believe that both should have their mandate extended. The minority of the presidency, Hans J. Røsjorde, has proposed Alf R. Bjercke as a member of the assembly instead of Stein Ørnhøi. I expect Røss soils themselves to justify their proposal. With this, I would recommend the proposal of the majority of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3248	When the Presidency of the Grand Duchy was given the task of recommending to the Grand Duchy on the composition of the EOS Committee, a number of leaders from the Control and Constitutional Committee were appointed, and in most respects this committee was unanimous. It was intended to ensure that the EOS Committee would have a broad composition, and if we could use such an expression, we would depoliticise the sample. It's, as I see it, not the complete connection between what the majority of the Presidency does, and what was the committee's comments, and that was endorsed by the Stortinge through the consideration of Innst. S. No 77 for 1997-98. I have also quoted earlier from the setting, but I want to underline what was said: ‘The Committee considers that, in this context, it is very important that the sample be set up in a manner that provides integrity and credibility to the secret services’.» I can't see that those criteria have been met by the proposal of the majority of the Presidency, by a re-nomination and by a re-nomination of Stein Ørnhøi. I have quoted earlier what Ørnhøi has said, according to Freedom. The letter to which it was referred, and which was addressed to the President of the Storing, seems quite clear to be designed in such a way that here you must have good opportunities to have one leg in each camp, however no doubt – and that might be okay. When it's such an unyielding act, as I see it, I guess I'm glad I chose to propose to the Stortinget another candidate. I think it would have been very appropriate if the presidency through the treatment could have found a broad pool of candidates. And it shouldn't be difficult, it's been full access to get candidates with broad competence in this field, from business, for example, from the research community, and I doubt that some skills would be lost if you had received researchers, for example. into the sample. It would probably give an even broader competence than the Stein Ørnhøi could contribute. With regard to the majority's proposal for the re-nomination of Stein Ørnhøi, it is well worth saying that such a proposal must be strange to receive when one has such strong objections to political leadership in relation to the war that has taken place in Kosovo. Then it is also quite incomprehensible that a candidate for the EOS Committee does not even take the consequences and withdraw as a candidate for this particular sample. It would probably be the cleanest. We have not recorded that. I would like to stress that the composition of the sample will of course meet the criteria set by the Stortinget, but it has not been said that someone will have a cut-off card for all eternity – and this is for five new years. I don't think we're sending the right signals. We had a debate on the annual report of the EOS Committee, I'm not going to go back to it, but also there it was quite clear with regard to the signals we send out, that what has to do with security and information is precisely affected by the choice that the majority has chosen to make towards the Storting. I'm not going to go into this any more, but I want to underline two things. Firstly, I am very pleased with the setting of the new leader of the sample. Former Ambassador Mevik will undoubtedly be a very good candidate. I am very pleased by the minority with the re-designation of Graver. So it's only on one point that I'm deviating, and it's re-electing Mr. Eagle shark. There we want to suggest Alf R. Mountain, and in terms of his qualifications and background, it is clear to read in the setting. I'm not going to spend time on this. Finally, I would like to ask that the choice between Stein Ørnhøi and Alf R. Bjercke be closed in accordance with Section 44(d) of the Rules of Procedure, by using voting notes in the voting. I'll bring that up with the minority proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3275	Hans J. Røssorde has taken up the suggestion he referred to. The President assumes that the request for written voting will be met.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3278	I have to admit that when the presidential election was held, it was met with shock in the Advance Party. We had just been through a debate on the annual report of the EOS Committee where, at first, there was considerable disagreement, and there was concern among quite a few about developments. I show you, among other things: to a newspaper article in the Evening Post, from Washington, where it was clear that there was concern in the United States about what was happening in Norway, and that there could be restrictions on the flow of information from our cooperating services in other NATO countries if there was too much transparency in the E service. It could also contribute to jeopardising the operations of our soldiers abroad. As a small country, Norway is totally dependent on NATO, depending on the positive views of the United States, England, Italy and Germany on what is happening in Norwegian defence and security policy. Fortunately, a majority had stopped the trends that were in the area of precisely transparency. But the signal that Stein Ørnhøis fanklubb in this room -- I allow myself to call it that -- sends to our collaborators in other countries by naming Stein Ørnhøi, that's just negative. It is known that a few years ago, the Storting changed the system of appointment. I would like to remind you that Stein Ørnhøi was not appointed or elected because he enjoyed respect for integrity and at the same time had extensive experience from Norwegian society. He was appointed by Stortinget because one had a system where the places in the sample were distributed among the party groups according to the size here in Stortinget. He was appointed by the Socialist Left Party as an SV politician for many years. And the basis for Stein Ørnhoei's political activity is well known in the other NATO countries. And the basis of his business, what has it been? It's been a long life with NATO resistance, fighting NATO in any context. It has been a feature of a fight against the United States, our main allies, and a fight against Norwegian defence and security policy. All the time, the fight against NATO membership, the fight against the United States, the fight against them Norway has always been dependent on having goodwill from, being the foundation, not just one of the interests of Stein Ørnhøi – it has been the main foundation for participation in Norwegian policy. And then the Storting changes the system so that we don't have party politicians, and yet the majority will take the most account of a small group of still NATO opponents, left-wing radicals in the Socialist Left Party, and possibly if there's anyone left on the left-hand side of the Workers' Party. The small group should be taken into account, while those who are in favour of a good defence, which is pro NATO, and who know that we are dependent on NATO's goodwill towards Norway, are completely forgotten. It's a mockery of Stein Ørnhøi's fan club now shows to those in the defense, works in the defense and has faith in the defense, by what they're going to do here. At the same time he gave a talk a few days ago, and the Freedom writes: ‘He left no doubt that an undeclared war against a sovereign state without a UN mandate was to be regarded as a war crime, and the responsible Norwegian politicians were to be regarded as war criminals. The Yugoslavs who have been killed by NATO – have not fallen into a war, but they have been murdered – were the further message.” That man is what you now want to honor by reappointment. And this dementia didn't come right after it was in the paper, then it might have been credible. No, it comes today after the staging president spoke to Stein Ørnhøi at 0 p.m. 23.45 last night. It's not credible at all, and I'm shocked if the bulk of the population still votes Stein Eagle Hill into this sample.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3294	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 4267]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3307	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3338	A total of 86 motions for resolutions have been tabled. 3rd@item: inlistbox It's: proposal No 1, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party proposals No. 2 and 3, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Labour Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 4, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Twist National Elections No. 5, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the People's Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and Twist Party's National Election Proposal No. 6, by Lars Gunnar Lie on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Central Party, the Left and the Twist National Elections No. 7 and 8, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposals No. 9 and 10, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left Amendment No. 11, from Hill-Marta Solberg, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the People's Party, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 12, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party and the Tverr-Political People's Elections No. 13-20, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Labour Party proposal No. 21, by Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Progressive Party, Right and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 22, by Lars Gunnar Lie on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Trans-Political People's Elections No. 23-25, by Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats). 26, by Lars Gunnar Lie on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left Proposals No. 27-34, by Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 35-37, by Lars Gunnar Lie on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and Left Amendment No. 38, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party proposals No. 39 and 40, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progressive Party and the People's Party, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 41 and 42, by Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right and Tverrpolitan People's Elections No. 43-53(c), by Mr Jensen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 54-62, by Mr Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 63-65, by Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Left Party of Socialism and the People's Party of Trans-Political Elections No. 66-78, by Mr Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Left-wing Socialist Group, 79, by Steinar Bastesen, on behalf of the Socialist Group, 80, from Randi Karlstrøm on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Left Amendment No. 81, by Lars Gunnar Lie, on behalf of the Committee on Finance, Proposal No. 82, by Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Labour Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 83, by Mr Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 84, by Lars Gunnar Lie on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left Before we go to voting, the President will draw attention to the fact that, in agreement with the parties involved, it will not be opened up to the fragmentation of minority voting proposals. When we come to the vote on the vote on the motion for a resolution, the parties are set to abstain from the vote they would normally have taken – this in order to avoid a very time-consuming and partly complicated voting where the result is nevertheless given. The President will of course underline the assumption that when the parties accept such a voting practice, this must not be used against a party on a later occasion. Then we should be ready for voting. The vote will be taken first on the minority proposals and then on the vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3435	As regards proposal No: 83, we've been invited from the government parties to turn it into a transmission proposal. The Labour Party has also said that they support the intention of the proposal, and we are asking that the proposal be turned into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3440	Then we're ready for voting. We start with proposal No. 79, from the People's Republic of Trans-Political. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Chap. 328Museum and other cultural protection purposes Search for the deceased, granted at NOK 6000000Cape. [[NY]] 1050Various fishing purposes75 Welfare service, granted at NOK 5 000 000Cape. [[NY]] [[new]] 1064Havneservice Environment measures in the Groruddalen, can be over-used, can be used under headings 63 and 74, and awarded with NOK 20 000 000’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e3584	We have now come to the proposals No. 66-78, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No 66 reads as follows: ‘Chap. 221Assistance to primary education IT development and procurement,granted at NOK 10000000Cape. [[NY]] 229Other purpose(s) in primary school61 Granted development measures at primary school level, granted at DKK 25 000 00063 Continued education and training in IT for teachers, granted at NOK 10 000 000Chapter. [[NY]] [[NY]] 320General cultural purposes50Norwegian cultural funds, increased by NOK 3 000 000 from NOK 179 551 000 to NOK 182 551 00078. [[New]] 324Teater and operapurposes Reimbursement of public transport for unearned profits on public supply/competition, granted at NOK 54 000 000Cape. 581Accommodation and housing measures75Accommodation grants for the establishment, repair and rental of dwellings may be transferred, increased by NOK 25 000 000 from NOK 325 000 to NOK 350 000. [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5312 and 5615)]] 610Directorate of Agents Proposal No. 67 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a plan of measures for the development of new business at Svalbard.’ Proposal No. 68 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to take action on the future of the high-speed rail system in the autumn of 1999.’ Proposal No. 69 sounds: ‘a.The Government asks the Government to establish a grant scheme for upgrading and improving the efficiency of existing hydropower plants and grids with a view to increasing energy efficiency. The scheme will enter into force since 1 October 1999.b. Cape. 1820Norway Watercourse and Energy Directorate Grants for investments in mains may be transferred, granted at NOK 73000000’» [[New]] Proposal No. 70 sounds: ‘a.The Decision of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of 30 November 1998 on taxes on alcohol is amended as follows:I A. Fee for spirits and wine etc. § 1 is replaced by the following: From 1 July 1999, under the law of 19 June 1964, 1 shall be paid to the treasury for the introduction or domestic production of spirit, isopropanol, spirits, wine, fruit wine and mead of the following amount:5. Drinks with alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 22 % vol.: 621 ear per. volume and litre.6. Alcoholic beverages 15-22 % vol. alcohol [[(sparkling wine):]] Cape. 5526Treatment of alcohol71Product fee on spirits, wine and others, reduced by NOK 67 000 000from NOK 4 739 000 to NOK 4 672 000 000» Proposal No. 71 sounds: «a.Grunn charge on mineral oil§ 1From 1 July 1999, pursuant to the Law of 19 May 1933, no. 11 basic taxes are payable to the State Treasury on petroleum, gas oil, solar oil, auto diesel, diesel and heating oils with 13.4 ears per litre. Fee shall also, according to the details of the department, be paid by other mineral oil if this oil can be used as fuel oil. § 2Exempted from the charging obligation are:(c) aircraft kerosene delivered for use on aircraft;(d) oil subject to a charge following the decision of the Storting to charge mineral oil for the propulsion of motor vehicles; [[jet kerosene]] [[autodiesel fee]] § 4The department may determine, exempt, refund or grant a subsidy on the proportion of biodiesel in the mineral oil. Under the conditions laid down by the Ministry, reimbursement may be granted for specified additional costs relating to the use of mineral oil with specific environmental characteristics, supplied for use in scheduled bus services receiving operating aid.§ 5The Ministry may lay down detailed provisions on the basis of the fee and on rounding of the amounts of the fees.§ 6In case of doubt as to the scope of the fee obligation, the Ministry will settle the question.§ 7The Ministry may exempt or reduce the fee when individual cases or situations were not considered when the fee decision was taken and when, in the particular case, the fee has an unintended effect.§ 8The Ministry may provide that the amount of the fees and the amount of the compensation due below a specified limit are not to be paid or reimbursed.b. Cape. 5542Features of mineral oil, etc. 70Treasure on mineral oil, granted at NOK 125 000 000 ’» Proposal No. 72 sounds: «As from 1 July 1999, the decision of the Storting of 30 November 1998 on the consumption tax on electricity § 1, first paragraph, last sentence is amended as follows:The rate of the tax is 7,98 øre per year. kWh.’» Proposal No. 73 sounds: ‘a.The Decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 17 June 1998 on the CO2 levy for the 1999 budgetary mine is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 1 shall be replaced by the following: 11 CO2 tax is paid to the Treasury on the following mineral products at the following rates:2. General rate) Mineral oil 76 øre per. litres of Coal and coke, etc.: 76 øre per. kg.f) Gasoline 122 øre per. liter3. Reduced rate, cf. § 2c) Mineral oil: 56 øre per. liters. For the three processing industries, the herring and fishmeal industries, the rate is 53 øre per. (d) Petrol: 54 øre per. liter.b. Cape. 5543 Environmental taxes on mineral products, etc. 70CO2 tax, increased by NOK 890 000 000 from NOK 4 115 000 to NOK 5 005 000’» Proposal No. 74 sounds: «The government asks the Government to propose to amend the Company Tax Act so that dividends are taxed at the hands of the recipient from the 1999 income year.» Proposal No. 75 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to develop guidelines for the State Petroleum Fund which ensure that the investments in the Fund are not invested in companies that violate basic human, environmental and professional rights.’ Proposal No. 76 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government in the most appropriate way; address the issue of a Tobin fee in the OECD with a view to conducting an investigation under the direction of the organisation.’ Proposal No. 77 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to set up a selection to investigate how Norway can prevent and manage exchange rate shocks.’ Proposal No. 78 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a report on the long-term ecological and economic framework conditions for the petroleum sector.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e4769	Proposal No. 83, from the Socialist Left, has just been asked for a transmission proposal. The proposal shall then read as follows: «It is recommended that the Government assess the required return requirements for the State Forest Planting School AS and determine the yields according to good and prudent business practices.» The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 63-65, from the Socialist Left Party and the Twist Party. Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘Chap. 232Statistical schools with secondary education [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4021)]] Cape. 2445Statesbygg [[(see section 4.4). cap. (Rule 5445)]] Cape. 5445Statesbygg [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2445)]] Proposal No. Sixty-four sounds. ‘The government asks the government to stop the sale of Villa Grande and look at the public use of the property as an alternative.’ Proposal No. 65 sounds: ‘I.I Decision of the Storting of 30 November 1998 No 1220 on the contribution to the Treasury of Inheritances and Gifts for the 1999 budget term is amended as follows:§ 4 shall be replaced by: Of inheritances and gifts to the children of the heir/donor, the foster child – including the stepchild who has been raised by the heir/donor – and parents, the following shall be answered:Of the first NOK 200 000...................of the next NOK 300 000.............9 pst. of excess amounts......................... 22.5 pst. II.The change in I shall enter into force for inheritances and gifts exceeding 1 July 1999 or later.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e5008	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 54-62, from the right. Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘Chap. 140The Ministry of Foreign Affairs administration of development aid01Operating expenditure, increased by NOK 5000000 from NOK 99 595000 to NOK 104 595 000. [[SND]] 141The Directorate for Development Assistance and Municipalities51The District Development Grant, Fund, can be used under Chapter 551, item 51, reduced by NOK 185 000 000 from NOK 809 000 to NOK 624 000 000. 2600The Social Security Agency01 Operating expenditure is reduced by NOK 127 000 000 from NOK 3 357 050 000 to NOK 3 230 050 000. [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5701)]] 2683Support to Lone Mother or Father Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to sell all the shares in Statkorn Holding ASA during 1999.’ Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘a.The Decision of the European Parliament of 30 November 1998 on taxes on alcohol applicable to the 1999 budgetary mine is amended as follows:II. Fee for beer§ 1 shall be replaced by the following: From 1 July 1999, under the law of 19 May 1933, it shall be: (h) Of beer containing up to 0,7 % by volume of alcohol: kr 1,40.i) Of beer containing more than 0,75 % by volume of alcohol: kr 2,21.j) Of beer containing more than 2,75 % by volume of alcohol: kr 8,33.k) Of beer containing more than 3,75 % by volume of alcohol: kr 14,45.l) Of beer containing more than 4,75 % by volume of alcohol: kr 20,54.m) Of beer containing more than 5,75 % by volume of alcohol: kr 26,66.n) Of beer containing more than 6,75 % by volume of alcohol: kr 27,88. Cape. 5526Treatment of alcohol72Product fee on beer,to be reduced by NOK 115 000 000from NOK 3 705 000 to NOK 3590 000 000» Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The budget of the Government of the State for 2000 calls for proposals not to pay an employer’s fee for apprentices.’ Proposal No. 58 sounds: «The Government requests the Government to implement changes in the sickness pay scheme in line with the Innst observations. S. No 236 [[1998-99]] Cape. 2650Sickness benefit70Sickness benefit for employees, etc., estimated amount, to be reduced by NOK 775 000 000 from NOK 15 565 000 to NOK 14 790 000» Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘a.The Decision of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of 30 November 1998 on taxes on alcohol is amended as follows:I A. Fee for spirits and wine etc. § 1 is replaced by the following: From 1 July 1999, under the law of 19 June 1964, 1 shall be paid to the treasury upon importation or domestic production of spirit, isopropanol, spirits, wine, fruit wine and mead with the following amounts:1. Drinks with alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 22 % vol.: 621 ear per. volume percentage and litre.2. Alcoholic beverages 15-22 % vol. alcohol [[(sparkling wine):]] Cape. 5526Treatment of alcohol71Product fee on spirits, wine and others, reduced by NOK 67 000 000from NOK 4 739 000 to NOK 4 672 000 000» Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘a.The Decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 30 November 1998 on the levying of tobacco products is amended as follows:§ 1 shall be replaced by the following: 11 is paid to the central bank at the following rates by:(b) Cigars: NOK 0.77 per person. grams of the net weight of the package. The weight of the single mouthpiece shall be included in the net weight on the basis of which the fee is to be calculated. c) Cigarettes: DKK 1,53 per. Paragraph One cigarette means a cigarette with a length of up to and including 90 mm, two of which are counted as cigarettes if it has a length of more than 90 mm but a maximum. 180 mm, etc. Filters and actuators are not included in the calculation of the length.g) Smoking tobacco, savoury tobacco, raw tobacco in retail packing: SEK 0,92 per. gram of net weight of the package.h) Scratch tobacco: kr 0,44 per. gram of net weight of the package.i) Snus: kr 0,44 per. gram of net weight of the package.j) Cigarette paper and cigarette sleeves: kr 0,02 per. Paragraph the contents of the package.The Ministry may provide for a simplified charging calculation for goods introduced for personal use by travellers in addition to free allowances.b. Cape. 5531Taxes on tobacco products70Taxes,reduced by NOK 66 000 000 from NOK 7 285 000 to NOK 7 219 000 000’ Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to reduce or remove the production charge in the field concerned. The aim is to bring marginal investment projects up to the investment decision already in the autumn of 1999.’» Proposal No. 62 sounds: «From 1 July 1999, pursuant to the Law of 21 December 1990, no. 72 on the taxation of CO2 emissions from petroleum activities on the continental shelf, CO2 is paid to the treasury at the following rates:(a) For gas 62 øre per. standard cubicmeter.b) For oil or condensate 62 ear per. litre.’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e7926	The proposals are then put to the vote. 43-53c, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘Chap. 440The seat of the police and of the cannon [[(see section 4.4). cap. 3440)]] Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to implement a more effective second-time asylum seekers system as soon as possible so that they can be questioned at the border and immediately returned in the absence of qualitatively new and modified information relevant to the processing of their asylum applications.’ Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government, at the time of the submission of the State budget for the year 2000, to take action. 730 item 61 is converted into an estimate.’» Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to set up a selection of representatives of the Ministry of Transport and representatives of the trade organisations. The purpose of the sample is to assess how incentives can be provided that lead to the use of more environmentally friendly means of transport, technology and fuels on a basis that is socially and environmentally sound. Work is assumed to ensure a business-economy framework that gives industry conditions for growth in production and passenger volumes.» Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The Government of the State Budget for 2000 asks the Government to submit proposals with full compensation to the bus companies for the car diesel tax paid, the compensation shall be equal to the subsidy and non-refundable routes.’ Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit as soon as possible proposals for amendments to VAT legislation to ensure non-discrimination between Norwegian and non-resident carriers in the purchase of goods and services for use in domestic and international aircraft.’ Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a selection to evaluate the framework conditions on Norwegian pedestal, including: the tax system, including an assessment of the ownership of the Land of Consecution and Exploration State’s holdings- the SDSM field and new actors’ composition in the licensingoverall law, regulations and regulatoryprequalification requirements for documentation tariffs, gas disposal and district localisation requirements production fee; The purpose of such an investigation must be to propose a permanent improvement of the competitive position of the Norwegian continental shelf and to be submitted to the Stortinget in the context of the State budget for the year 2000.’;» Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals for input-driven financing of the care of the elderly with effect from the year 2000.’» Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The Government asked for different models for the reorganisation of the Swedish Social Security Fund with a view to changing the country’s ownership and capital management and to resolving future pension obligations.’ Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to explain in which areas Norwegian legislation and Norwegian framework conditions significantly diverge from and thus hinder industrial development in relation to the EU.’ Proposal No. 53 a reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to wind up the production fee as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 53b reads: ‘The decision on the CO2 levy in the petroleum activity on the continental shelf for the 1999 budget reserve shall be repealed with effect from 1 July 1999.’» Proposal No. 53 c reads: ‘From 1 July 1999, the decision of the Stortinge of 30 November 1998 on value added tax and investment taxes is amended as follows: for 1999:Chapter II(12) of the Decision shall be deleted.’;
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e8193	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 41 and 42, from the Right and Twist National Elections. Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘a. Cape. 856Barnehager60Operating grants for kindergartens, estimate appropriations, increased by NOK 19 000 000from NOK 4 461 900 000 to NOK 4 480 900 000 b.The Government asks the Government to increase the rate of the State grant for the operation of kindergartens equivalent to 75 million. from 1 August 1999.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘a.In the 1999 tax ruling for the 1999 income year of 30 November 1998, the following shall be amended:§ 2-1 Personally liable and resident: Personally liable and resident is equal to the property tax of the State of the portion of the taxable person’s assumed assets exceeding NOK 120 000 in classes 0 and 1 and NOK 150 000 in class 2. Class 1 taxable persons who receive special deductions under the tax laws § 76 and 77 are assigned to class 2 in the case of property taxes. The same applies to spouses who are distinctly similar to the fourth paragraph of Section 16 of the Tax Act. The taxes on wealth are calculated at these rates: Class 0 and 1Class 20.1 pst. of the first 420 000430 0000,4 pst. of the excess amounts b. Cape. 5501Taxes on wealth and income72Share taxes,reduced by NOK 184 000 000 from NOK 69 802000000 to NOK 69 618 000 000»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e8318	There is a vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 39 and 40, from the People's Party and the People's Party. Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘Chap. 440The seat of the police and of the cannon [[(see section 4.4). cap. 3440)]] Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The Government of the State Budget for 2000 is asking for proposals to reduce the tax on petrol used for the propulsion of boats to the same level as the tax on diesel used for the propulsion of boats.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e8361	There is a vote on proposal No. 38, from the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Chap. 1560Price subsidy70For the regulation of consumer prices, increase by NOK 7 000 000 from NOK 95 738 000 to NOK 102 738 000 »
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e8404	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 35, 36, 37, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, and the Left. The President noted that under proposal No 35 the proposal for a number of chapters is identical to the draft decision of the vote. The President will therefore ask for these chapters to be drawn under the proposal. This applies to all chapters with the exception of caps. 571 and cap. 856. – They are now drawn, says the Chairman of the Committee. Proposal No. 35 then reads like this: ‘Chap. 571Rame grants to municipalities65Main city grants, reduced by NOK 150 000 from NOK 192 025 000 to NOK 42 025 000Cape. 856Barnehager60Operating grants for kindergartens, estimated allocation, are reduced by NOK 16 000 000from NOK 4 461 900 000 to NOK 4 445 900 000’» Proposal No 36 reads as follows: ‘Chap. 5526 Charges on alcohol As from 1 July 1999, the decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 30 November 1998 on the levy on beer for the 1999 budgetary period is amended as follows: from 1 January 1999 it shall be replaced by the law of 19 May 1933. 11 be paid to the treasury for beer with the following amounts per litre: (h) Of beer containing up to and including 0,7 % by volume of alcohol: DKK 1,55. (i) Of beer containing more than 0,7 up to and including 2,75 % by volume of alcohol: DKK 2,46. j) Of beer containing more than 2,75 % up to and including 3,75 % by volume of alcohol: kr 9,26. k) Of beers containing more than 3,75 % up to and including 4,75 % by volume of alcohol. NOK 16,05. (l) Of beers containing more than 4,75 % up to and including 5,75 % by volume of alcohol: NOK 22,82. m) Of beer containing more than 5,75 up to and including 6,75 % by volume of alcohol: NOK 29,62. (n) Of beer containing more than 6,75 % by volume of alcohol: NOK 36,42.» Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘In the decision of the Stortingen on value added tax and investment levy, etc. for the 1999 budgetary period, the following amendments shall be made from 1 January 2000 : Chapter of the Decision. Paragraph 14 shall be replaced by the following: no charge shall be paid for aircraft workshops, including technical divisions and bases, acquisitions of goods and services used as means of operating in the conversion, repair or maintenance of aircraft as referred to in the Act of 19 June 1969 No. 66 on VAT § 17 first paragraph no. 1 point (c) of Section 14 of the Decision. II becomes a new Section 15 and shall be replaced by :The Ministry may 3. lay down detailed rules on the limitation, completion and implementation of the provisions of Sections 1 to 14 and may, inter alia, provide that certain means of operation are to be chargeable at the rate referred to in Section 1, even if the means of operation is for use as referred to in Section 2.4. when specific conditions exist, provide that certain means of operation are exempt from charging, even if the means of operation are not for use as referred to in Section 2.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e8525	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 27-34, from the Party of Advancement and the Right. Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘Chap. 730The health service of the counties60Integrated hospital financing, increased by NOK 638 000 000 from NOK 10 300 000 to NOK 10 938 000 000 ’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Norwegian Cinema and Film Fund fee is set at SEK 3.50 per year. videogram from 1 July 1999.’;» Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the allocation of tasks between customs and police at border crossings, ferry rentals and aerodromes with a view to improving efficiency and freeing resources.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to remove the tax ceiling on share options in employment with a binding period of more than three years from the fiscal year 2000.’» Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The size calls on the Government of the National Budget for 2000 to present its comprehensive and concrete approach to fiscal policy in the years to come and to integrate it into a long-term and sustainable fiscal policy.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: «The Government is requested to submit proposals on the extension of access to investments in foreign shares to the Swedish Social Security Fund. ‘... Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary changes to the insurance business law so that the regulation of insurance companies is in line with that in force in the EU.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government of the budget for 2000 to submit proposals on how to reduce the CO2 tax until the offshore sector is included in the quota system, including the possibility to differentiate between old and new fields with the aim of stimulating increased field development.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e8606	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 26, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, and the Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Chap. 320General cultural purposes61 Grants to a thousand-year-old’s place of residence in the municipalities may be transferred,granted at NOK 87 000 000.’» [[New]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e8645	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 23-25, from the Party of Advances, from the Right and from the People's Cross. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for the introduction of a general VAT compensation scheme in the context of the State budget for the year 2000’.» Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Transport Economic Institute to undertake an investigation into the progress and level of the one-off charge on motor vehicles in relation to the total economy of society, road safety, the environment, the composition of the car park [[age, used car imports, new car sales, etc.]] Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make a statement on the border trade situation and to propose measures to reverse developments’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e8671	There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party and the Twist Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Chap. 1330Special transport measures72Contributions to express buses may be increased by NOK 25 000 000 from NOK 20000000 to NOK 45 000 000’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e8716	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Left Party of Socialists. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government does not request the imposition of customs duties on MUL imports of beef in 2000 and does not introduce an auction mechanism for such imports.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e8730	It is voted against by the President of the Council. 13-20, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘Chap. 253People's high schools70Contributions to other public high schools, can be used under heading 60, reduced by NOK 15 000 000 from NOK 294 959 000 to NOK 279 959 000. 474 Conflict thread01Operating costs, increased by NOK 1 000 000 from NOK 2 603 000 to NOK 3 603 000Cape. 846Family and gender policy research, information work, etc.70.1 Grants, granted at NOK 2 400 000Cape. 847Equality Competence Centre50Base allocation, increased by NOK 2000000 from NOK 4 841,000 to NOK 6 841 000Cape. 848Employment Ombudsman01 Operating expenditure, increased by NOK 500000 from NOK 495000 to NOK 495000. 854Actions in the field of child protection63Special measures, increased by NOK 10 000 000 from NOK 18 500 000 to NOK 28 500 00071Research, development and information work etc., increased by NOK 2 000 000 from NOK 21 660000 to NOK 23 660000. [[New]] 856Barnehager64Test project Oslo inner East, increased by NOK 12 500 000from NOK 10000000 to NOK 22 500 00071 Stimulation grants, granted by NOK 50 000 00072 Research – foreign-language children, granted by NOK 1 125 000Cape. [[New]] 857Children and youth actions79Aid to international cooperation in the field of youth, increased by NOK 5 000 000from NOK 10 710 000 to NOK 15 710 00070Children and youth organisations, increased by NOK 2 000 000 from NOK 53 500000 to NOK 55 500 00071Research and development, increased by NOK 1 000 00072Development programme for strengthening the growing environment, increased by NOK 1 500 000 from NOK 100000 to NOK 1 600 00073Youth actions in larger urban communities, can be transferred, increased by NOK 4 000 000 from NOK 20 202000 to NOK 24 202 00074Youth action in the rural areas, increased by NOK 1 600 000 from NOK 2 800000 to NOK 4 400 00077 Alternatives to violence granted by NOK 1 000 000Cape. [[New]] [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4760):]] 920Norway Research Council50Contributions, may be transferred, increased by NOK 1500000 from NOK 809000000 to NOK 810 500 000Cape. 1301Research and development, etc.50Communication research, can be transferred,reduced by NOK 1500000 from NOK 53 200000 to NOK 51 700000. 1591Work market measures Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘In the decision of the Storting of 30 November 1998 on the charging of motor vehicles and their trailers with effect from 1 July 1999 the following amendments shall be made:I A. Single charge for motor vehicles, etc. § 1, fee groups (b) and (d) are replaced by the following: Cars of Class 2, buses of less than 6 metres up to 17 seats, of which at least 10 are fixed in the direction of travel, chassis with engine for such motor vehicles: 30 pst. by the levy under heading (a) of the levy, business operators are exempted from the investment levy on motor vans. Tax category d: Combined cars with a total weight of up to 5000 kg and chassis with an engine for such vehicles: 70 pst. of the fee under fee group (a).’;» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘I A. Single fee for motor vehicles and others III. The reference year’s fee is replaced by the following:§ 1From 1 July 1999 it shall be subject to the law of 19 June 1959 No. 2 is charged to the central bank for the introduction and domestic construction of motor vehicles according to the following categories and rates: category a:4. passenger cars,5. vans class 1 and 6. chassis with engine for such motor vehicles: NOK 24,67 per. kg of the first 1 150 kg of the weight basis, NOK 49,33 per. kg of the next 250 kg of the weight basis, NOK 98.65 per. kg of the remainder [[engine power charge]] Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘a.As from 1 July 1999, the Decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 30 November 1998 on Fees for motor vehicles and others is amended as follows: IV. The re-registration fee§ 1 table is replaced by the following: Registration years1999 and 1998 kr1997 kr1996 kr1995 till 1988 kr1987 and older krMopeder, Motorcycles, Belts and Motorcycles1.Mopeder 4824824822.Motorcycles and track motorcycles with engines up to and including 250 cm3 cylinder capacity 1 3751 3751 3751 3753.Motorcycles and belt motorcycles with engines over 250 cm3 cylinder capacity 2 2842 2842 2842 284284 [[Type-approved]] b. Cape. 5536Tax for motor vehicles, etc.75Re-registration fee, increased by NOK 100 000 000 from NOK 150000000 to NOK 1 600 000 ’» Proposal No. 17 sounds: «a.Grunn charge on mineral oil§ 1From 1 July 1999, pursuant to the Law of 19 May 1933, no. 11 basic taxes are payable on petroleum, gas oil, solar oil, auto diesel, diesel and heating oils with 19.1 cents per tonne. liters. Fee shall also, according to the details of the department, be paid by other mineral oil if this oil can be used as fuel oil. § 2Exempted from the charging obligation are:(c) aircraft kerosene delivered for use on aircraft;(d) oil subject to a charge following the decision of the Storting to charge mineral oil for the propulsion of motor vehicles; [[jet kerosene]] [[autodiesel fee]] 11th@item: inlistbox Output. 12th@item: inlistbox Foreign speed. 13th@item: inlistbox Freight transport services in domestic shipping. 14th @item: inlistbox Fishing and fishing in close waters. 15th Fishing and fishing in remote waters. 16th@item: inlistbox Facilities or facilities associated with the exploitation of natural deposits in sea areas outside the Norwegian territorial border, for transport between land and such facilities or facilities, and for special ships entrusted with such activities. 17. To be placed on customs warehouses where the goods are intended for export or use as referred to in the introductory provisions of Section 24(1) of the Customs Tariff. 1st@item: inlistbox 18th@item: inlistbox Used as raw material in industrial activities if the mineral oil is wholly incorporated and remains in the finished product. 19th@item: inlistbox Entered as luggage or travel equipment. 20. Protective vessels, museum railways or technical installations in the museum sector. § 4The department may determine, exempt, refund or grant a subsidy on the proportion of biodiesel in the mineral oil. Under the conditions laid down by the Ministry, reimbursement may be granted for specified additional costs relating to the use of mineral oil with specific environmental characteristics, supplied for use in scheduled bus services receiving operating aid.§ 5The Ministry may lay down detailed provisions on the basis of the fee and on rounding of the amounts of the fees.§ 6In case of doubt as to the scope of the fee obligation, the Ministry will settle the question.§ 7The Ministry may exempt or reduce the fee when individual cases or situations were not considered when the fee decision was taken and when, in the particular case, the fee has an unintended effect.§ 8The Ministry may provide that the amount of the fees and the amount of the compensation due below a specified limit are not to be paid or reimbursed.b. Cape. 5542Features of mineral oil, etc.70Features of mineral oil, granted at NOK 175 000 000 » Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to set aside 2 billion. crowns of that part of the petroleum fund to be managed according to specific ecological criteria.» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government is asking for the opening of the CO2 charge for the petroleum activity on the continental shelf to be set at the level applicable to the use of heating oil in mainland industry. This must be done field-by-field and linked to concrete development decisions.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to include the entire offshore sector in the CO2 allowance system during the year 2000.’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e9896	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Left Party of Socialists and the People's Party of Cross-Political Elections. The vote on this proposal will be split into two parts, and the first vote will be on the motion for a resolution, which reads as follows: ‘Chap. 100Ministry of Foreign Affairs01Operating expenditure, increased by NOK 9 950000 from NOK 300 608000 to NOK 310 558 000»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e9935	As regards the second part of the proposal, the verbal proposal, the proposers have requested that it be converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal shall then read as follows: «It is recommended that the Government in the context of the State budget for 2000, propose a change in the legislation in kind so that all employees receiving loans from employer's computer equipment can benefit from tax exemptions from the benefit.» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It is then voted on proposal No 11, by the Workers' Party and the People's Party of Transnational Political Affairs. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Chap. 571Room grants to municipalities:60Inhabitant grants/expenditure equalisation, increased by NOK 102 900 000 from NOK 22 421 368 000 to NOK 22 524 268 000Cape. 2415 Member States' nutrition and district development funds, fisheries and other regional policy measures72Assistances to renewal and capacity-adjustment in the fishing fleet may be transferred, increased by NOK 52 000 000 from NOK 50 000 to NOK 102 000.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e10027	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 10, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Christian Party, from the Central Party, and from the Left. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘Chap. 320General cultural purposes73National cultural buildings, can be transferred,reduced by NOK 15 000 000 from NOK 35 300000 to NOK 20 300000. 410Laws and Town Courts [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2445)]] Proposal No. 10 sounds: «Building and real estate agentsThe Swedish Government agrees that the Ministry of Labour and Administration will be able to approve the sale of Tuengen allé 10 C in Oslo in 1999.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e10206	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘Chap. 221Contributions to primary school [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4590)]] Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘a.The Grand total requests that the minimum basis for entitlement to sickness benefit be changed from 1.25 G to 0.5 G from 1 July 1999.b. Cape. 2650Sickness allowance70Sickness benefit for employees, etc., estimated amount, increased by NOK 90 000 000from NOK 15 565 000 to NOK 15 655 000’» In this respect, the President should strongly stress that the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Centre will vote against. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e10595	One must have been afraid that it could tempt someone. Proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party, the Central Party, the Left Party and the Cross Party, are drawn. There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and Trans-Political Elections. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Chap. 923 Research and development contracts70Contributions, may be transferred, reduced by NOK 12 000 000 from NOK 137 800000 to NOK 125 800000. [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4427)]] 1427Directorate for Nature Management
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e10668	We have now come to proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Twist People's Party. In the case of cap. 1320 in this proposal, it is covered by the proposal for a decision, and the President therefore assumes that this can be withdrawn. - It's confirmed. Cape. 1320 of proposal No So 4 is drawn. It is then voted over the remaining part of proposal No. 4: ‘Chap. 281Shared expenditure at universities and colleges Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance,granted at NOK 8 500 000’» [[NY]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e10765	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to apply the Autodiesel Fee Compensation Scheme so that the basis for compensation for the car diesel tax will be historical consumption in 1997 and the adjustments made against the background of up-to-date accounts and actual diesel tax, including: the effects of VAT. The future compensation system is established by linking it to the mileage for which permission has been granted.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e10780	Of the minority proposals, proposal No. 1 - by the Labour Party and the Advance Party, proposal No. 2 by the Labour Party and the Right, proposal No. 80, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Left, proposal No. 81, by the Financial Committee, proposal No 82, from the Labour Party and the Right, and proposal No. 84, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. As regards proposal No: 2, from the Workers' Party and the Right, the President makes note that the proposals for the cap. 846 and cap. 1100 is covered by the proposal for a decision of the Bureau and the President assumes that they should therefore be withdrawn. - It's confirmed. Cape. 1300 under the same proposal lapses and is replaced by proposal No. 82, from the Labour Party and the Right. - That's right, too. The following proposals remain: proposals Nos. One, two, 80, 81, 82 and 84. They will be taken up to voting under the corresponding chapter of the setting. So we're going to vote on the committee's attitude. The Committee had ceased: ‘I. The 1999 budget shall be amended as follows: Cape.PostDestination:Cross11Slottet, Bygdø kongsgård and Oscarshall [[(see section 4.4). cap. 3061):]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e10939	Of heading No 1 under Chapter. 100 there is a proposal from the Financial Committee to replace the vote, and it is under proposal No. Eighty-one. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The recommendation to amend Chapter 100, entry 1 is replaced by the following: Cape. 100Ministry of Foreign Affairs:1 Operating expenditure, increased by NOK 6 950000 from NOK 300 608000 to NOK 307 558 000 ’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e10986	As a result, the proposal for a decision on this proposal for a regulation lapses. 100 item 1. It is then voted over the settings for the cap. 100 item 71.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e11057	For this chapter, there is also a proposal to replace the proposal for a decision by the vote, and it is still under No. 81, from the Financial Committee. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Recommendation for the amendment of Chapter 140, item 1, to be replaced by:Chapter. 140Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ Management of Development:1Operating expenditure, increased by NOK 3000000 from NOK 99 595 000 to NOK 102 595 000 ’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e11097	This disables the option's cap suggestion. 140. Further adjustment was made: Cape. 150Aid to priority countries and regions:70Aid to Africa can be transferred,reduced by NOK 1630000000 to NOK 1570000000. 159 Grants for various relief measures:70Contributions, may be transferred, reduced by NOK 17 066 000 to NOK 9 066 000. 166Validity measures:70Assignments to debt relief measures, can be transferred,reduced by NOK 250000000 to NOK 175000000. 191Human rights, humanitarian aid and refugee action:70Aids to human rights, humanitarian aid and refugee action can be transferred, reduced from DKK 1 473 000 000 to DKK 1 428 000 000. [[NY]] 221Aids to primary school Compensation for additional costs related to temporary premises may be transferred, granted at NOK 70000000. 240Private schools etc.:70Additional, estimate, is increased by NOK 971 829 000 to NOK 976 829 000 to NOK 5000000. [[NY]] The resource and adult training centre of 250 Member States and training for adult immigrants Fund capital is granted at a rate of €3,000,000. 287 Research institutes and other measures:50NOVA, increased by NOK 18 779 000 to NOK 18 875 000 NOK 96 000 54Research Foundations, increased by NOK 61 463 000 to NOK 61 749 000 NOK 286 000. 288International cooperation activities:72International basic research organisations, increased by NOK 94 714 000 to NOK 99 214 000, DKK 4 500 000, Cape. 291Studies abroad and social purposes for students and students:74Assistances to welfare work, reduced by NOK 55 955000 to NOK 54 955000 NOK 1000000 75Assistances to the construction of student housing, can be transferred, increased by NOK 80 322 000 to NOK 110 322 000 NOK 30000000. [[NY]] 320General cultural purposes:61 Grants to a thousand-year-old in the municipalities, can be transferred,granted at NOK 52 000 000 73National cultural buildings, can be transferred,reduced at NOK 35 300000 to NOK 21 800 00013 500000 Cape. [[NY]] [[(see section 4.4). cap. 3530):]] 322Image art, crafts and design Operating expenditure, granted by NOK 1,000,000. 445The higher prosecution authority
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e12133	Here the Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e12136	President! SV must also vote against!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e12143	Yes, then the Socialist Left also votes against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e12832	Then we come to a proposal that concerns the cap. 852 Adoption aid. This proposal is available under proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Right, saying, ‘Chap. 852Adoption support70Additions to parents who adopt children from abroad can be transferred,reduced by NOK 1 125 000 from NOK 13000000 to NOK 11 875000’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e13711	For this chapter there is a proposal, proposal No. 82, from the Working Party and the Right, to the amendment of entry 23. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Chap. 1320 pavement services of the Member States [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4320):]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e13880	For this chapter there is a proposal for amendment under item 33. That is proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Chap. 1427Directorate for Nature Management [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4427)]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e15495	The President will now bring up a motion for a resolution. 3410, and it is under proposal No. 81 from the Committee. The proposal reads as follows: «The recommendation on the amendment of Chapter 3462 entry 03 is replaced by:Cape. 3410 Legal fee [[(see section 4.4). cap. 410 and 462)]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e15544	Following this decision, the President will draw attention to the fact that the suspension is to be corrected by the suspension proposal. 3462 is deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e16616	We've come to VIII. There is a proposal to replace the vote on the motion for a resolution. That is proposal No. 84, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «New proposal for Roman Numeral Decision replacing Roman Numeral Decision VIII of the Inst. S. No 236 VIII.The bill agrees that: (a) the fee for the labelling of each copy of a videogram for rental is increased from NOK 1,00 to NOK 2,00 from the date of entry into force of the new motion picture and videogram regulation. (b) the fee for the labelling of each copy of a videogram for sale is increased from NOK 1,00 to NOK 2,00 from the date of entry into force of the new motion picture and videogram regulation. (c) the fee per. videogram for placing on the market in the industry of Norwegian cinema and film funds is set at NOK 4,00 from the date of entry into force of the new regulation on film and videogram.» [[1998-99]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e16645	As a consequence of this Decision, the proposal for a decision under VIII lapses.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e17000	Finally, there is a vote on proposal No. 80, from the party of progress, from the Christian party, from the right, from the centre, and from the left. The President has been made aware that this proposal is also supported by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘ I.The Decision of the Grand Duchy of Stockholm of 6 May 1999 on the charging of passengers for the 1999 budget line is amended as follows:§ 3(e) is replaced by:Flying from Finnmark airport and the following municipalities in North Troms: Karlsøy, Kvänangen, Kåfjord, Lyngen, Nordreisa, Skjervøy and Storfjord. II.The amendment shall enter into force on 1 June 1999.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e17024	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Kenneth Svendsen, on behalf of the People's Party, the Right and Tverr Policy Committee, sent from the Odelstinget meeting on 1 June 1999: ‘The decision asks the Government by the end of 2000 to sell all the State’s shares of the Municipal Bank of AS to the highest bidder.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e17040	There is a vote on the proposal by the representative Karin Andersen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, sent from the Odelstinget meeting on 1 June 1999: «The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Kommunalbanken AS incorporates in its statutes a provision that only the municipal sector and the State may own shares in the company.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e17054	There is a vote on the proposal from the representative, Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odel Stingen on 15 June 1999: ‘The decision asks the Government in connection with the State budget for 2000 to submit proposals for deducting the document fee from the inheritance fee for ordinary inheritance, whose heir resides on the property.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e17070	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 15 June 1999: ‘The decision of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of 4 February 1999 on the system of freight subsidies for the State budget for petrol and automotive diesel is hereby continued.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e17085	The President sees that there are so many people who have voted incorrectly that she will take the vote again. As far as the President has understood, it is the Progress Party that will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e17096	The President will now leave the presidency of voting on the next case to a President-in-Office, and asks that the representatives be seated after that matter has been settled, for she has some words she would like to say before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e17108	During the debate, Mr Røsjorde put forward a proposal. The proposal will be addressed to voting against Member No. 3rd part I of the proposal for a decision of the Committee. The Presidency had cancelled: I. As new members of the Steering Committee for Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Services, until 30 June 2004 are elected: 1st@item: inlistbox Leif Mevik 2. Kjersti Graver
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e17138	So we're going to pick member number. 3, and here there is an alternative proposal from Hans J. Røsjorde. The proposal reads as follows: ‘As a new member of the Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Services Control Committee of the Storting for the period up to 30 June 2004:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e17159	Stein Ørnhøi has thus been selected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-18.ana.ud1390e17204	Before the meeting is cancelled, the President will inform you that, at relatively short notice, it may be appropriate to convene the Stortinget to negotiate during the summer. The President cannot today suggest this. The ordinary negotiations shall be resumed on Thursday 30 September at 10 a.m. 13 with meeting in Odelstinget and immediately afterwards meeting in Stortinget. Since this is the last ordinary grand meeting before the holiday, the President will take the opportunity to thank everyone for their good cooperation and for the efforts that have been made this spring. Furthermore, the President would like to see all the co-representatives, members of the Government, employees of Storting, the press department and all the others who have their work related to Stortingen's business, a really good and healthy summer!
