ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e31	The representatives of Mimmi Beevi, Anita Apelthun Seele and No Quail Bay, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Uppland State: Kjell Ivar Fossnes For Oslo: Sissel Dagslet For Troms County: Ruth Stenersen For Southern Tribute County: Bjørg Bruset and Michael Momyr The requested alternate of the State of Telemark, Vivian Knarvik Bugge, is requested to be exempted from meeting with the representative of Brother Yngve Rahm's leave on days 6 and 7 December due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. Other alternates of the Telemark County, Jens Arnfinn Brödsjømoen, are called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e81	Jens Arnfinn Brödsjømoen is present and will take the seat. The representatives John Dale and Gunnar Schaug have received applications for leave from 8 December to 10 December, both in order to attend a meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Córdoba, Spain. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the Hordaland County, Bjørg Hope Galtung, is prevented from meeting under the representative John Dale's leave because of foreign residence. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The representatives of the goods, for the county of Hordaland Magnar Lussand and for the county of Morten Olsen, shall be convened to meet during the period of leave.2. Magnar Lussand is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of John Dale.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e116	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e121	I suggest Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e126	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is deemed to be elected president of the current meeting. Councillor Eldbjørg Löwer exceeded 3 kgl. propositions [[see Unit]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e133	The President will propose that this morning's sitting, if necessary, continue beyond the scheduled time at noon. 15.00 until the current map has been processed. No objections have been raised to this proposal – and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e145	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 10 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 50 minutes, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party 20 minutes each, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party, Left and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the submission of main speeches by each group of parties and after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Because of a late arrival, Bjørn Tore Godal is the first speaker in today's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e158	The chairperson of the Committee is, hopefully, in the course of an approach, but it is probably not so inappropriate for a representative of the majority of the Committee to begin, even if that is not necessarily the case. I would like to take a slightly different starting point than the usual in these debates, namely to raise a little bit above the edge of the pit and look at the basic positive development in the security policy sense that we have been putting behind us for some years now. It's common to focus on everything that's done. I will, too, but there is still reason to say that 25 consecutive years of disarmament, disarmament and arms control have produced very significant results in the decommissioning of nuclear weapons and conventional weapons. The number of strategic and tactical nuclear weapons has been drastically reduced both as a result of contractual reductions and mutual political but not contractual commitments. The number of nuclear weapons in the European NATO countries is, for example, reduced by 90 pst. since 1989. Since the CFE agreement on reductions in the conventional forces of Europe was signed in 1990, nearly 60 000 tanks, artillery units, fighter aircraft, etc. destroyed. Global developments are less promising in terms of chemical and biological weapons and, of course, much remains in the follow-up and continuation of the contract work in terms of both nuclear weapons and the final facility for conventional reduction of strength. Overall, however, these basic developments have provided increased security for Norway. The danger of confrontation and armed conflict according to the cold war pattern is virtually eliminated, at least in the foreseeable future. As a result of general security policy developments, the share of defence expenditure in total value creation in countries has declined significantly in many countries, in Norway from well over 3pst. in 1990 to just over 2 pst. in 1998. At the same time, of course, it is important to maintain a minimum level of ability to meet the long-term security challenges also in our neighbourhoods. No one can confidently predict the long-term development of Russia. Paradoxically, nuclear weapons have become more important in Russia in parallel with the decline and weakening of the Russian conventional forces. Willy Brandt has said: 'Security in Europe is indivisible. If it does not apply to all, it ultimately does not apply to any’. This basic recognition made Willy Brandt the greatest architect of East-West effusion. Of course, his message is as important in today's Europe as it is in the global context. Therefore, there is no alternative to a consistent Norwegian support for all measures that can support the UN and the regional intergovernmental organisations as collective guardians of peace and security. The most important thing in such a broad security policy perspective is to strengthen the capacity of the international community to deal with conflicts without having to resort to military means of power. There must be a basis for our efforts in the UN, in the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, in NATO, in the Western Union – as long as it lasts – and in other regional cooperation organisations. This work is given undue attention and for modest budget resources, and is perceived by some even as unnecessary. It is when it comes to smackling and the acts of war are the fact that opinion is really mobilized on security policy issues. Here it's useful to remember President Clinton's words. He said, "The most expensive peace is cheaper than the cheapest war." NATO is the very bearer of Norwegian security policy. The commitment of NATO members to collective and solidarity defence has given a number of other aspirations, as well as a basis for organised resuscitation and disarmament. A thoughtful nationalisation of security and defence policy, in which NATO went into disintegration and the countries returned to their old habits to position themselves as best they could from a sluggish national point of view, would be a serious retreat. Throughout the 1990s, we have seen a transformation of cooperation in NATO as a result of changes in Europe. Cooperation with the new partner countries of Central and Eastern Europe, the accession of new NATO members, the NATO-Russia Cooperation Agreement and NATO's efforts in Bosnia and Kosovo are the main key elements in the development of the new NATO. NATO's new strategic concept is a reflection of this development and is put on the paper in retrospect. So the concept is not the cause of NATO's action in Kosovo. NATO’s basic task is now as before – to ensure the security of its Member States. Transatlantic solidarity, political advice based on the principle of unanimity and integrated military cooperation remain the central elements of this cooperation. But the new thing is to contribute to the security and stability of new partner countries and participate in conflict prevention and crisis management in the new Europe. Cooperation and integration across old dividing lines is in our own security policy interest. NATO's role in peace operations was first addressed more widely by NATO's Foreign Ministers in 1992. They decided that NATO's resources could be used for ‘peacekeeping and other operations under the authority of the UN Security Council or the responsibility of the OSCE’. NATO's action and presence in Bosnia, outside the territory of the Member States, is the first major example of the new NATO. NATO was given this task only after the UN forces in the former Yugoslavia had failed their mission. Clear mandates and guidelines and uniform command lines, as in NATO, have often proved necessary to achieve results in more demanding peacekeeping and peace-building operations. For this reason, NATO also took the task of Kosovo into account in a number of doubts. Europe’s inability to prevent and prevent human suffering in the Balkans may be the main driver in the desire for European countries to seriously strengthen their common foreign, security and defence policy. The EU's efforts to develop a common foreign and security policy have slowed down in the last decade, but are now shooting, as we know, new speeds. Although NATO will continue to be the main collective security organisation in Europe, it is beyond doubt that the EU will become increasingly important in crisis management and peace operations. Full rights in this work and equality with the majority of European countries can only be achieved by Norway with membership of the EU. However, clarifying this issue can only be linked to a broader European and EU debate, which will, after all, force itself forward in the next decade. The desire for a stronger European capacity for a common foreign and security policy boost must not lead to duplication and the creation of new parallel structures alongside the NATO structure. It is therefore important that EU countries stick to the decision that they themselves strongly agreed to take at the NATO Foreign Minister's meeting in Berlin in 1996 to develop the so-called European security policy identity within the framework of NATO cooperation. However, although this principle is still acknowledged, it goes without saying that there must be a minimum of European structures for the analysis, planning, decision-making and implementation of individual projects and actions. The scope of this ‘minimum’ is in itself a not insignificant issue in the internal EU debate on security and defence policy. In all countries of the Euro-Atlantic region, including the former member countries of the Warsaw Pact, the changes in the security policy framework conditions have led to major changes in the device and in the scope of the national strength structures. American presence in Europe, albeit at a lower level, and integrated but simplified NATO structures remain crucial in relation to collective defence. The ability to respond more flexibly and rapidly to defined challenges has long been in focus. At the same time, the new NATO has placed a strong emphasis on the integration of new partners and members, on the new cooperation tasks with Russia, and not least on peace operations. The main lines of defence activity and development in the period 1999-2002, the long-term communication, say that the main objectives of Norwegian security policy are to contribute to stable and peaceful development, to protect our national freedom of action and sovereignty and to safeguard our rights and interests. The current security policy situation requires something more than credible ability to defend Norwegian territory. Active international involvement, counties to NATO's common defence and participation in peace operations also outside NATO's borders are a central part of Norwegian security and defence policy. There is a necessary and ongoing debate in the Defence and Defence Policy Environment on how best to find the balance between our international and allied commitments and the more classic invasion defence. I'm going to use some sentences on it, because the debate is being held with increasing weight, and there are contradictions and shades in this picture, even when we look at the situation in each NATO country and in each European country. If we see Norway’s land and sea territory as a whole and in addition include Norway’s economic zone, Norway accounts for well over 30pst. of the western European area. It should be said that this results in several major tasks in the exercise of sovereignty and resource monitoring and control than those in many other NATO countries unless the territory is smaller. If this task is not taken seriously by the necessary funds for the investment and operation of ships and aircraft and for the defence of land, it will weaken both Norway and the NATO joint defence. But even though the territory will, after all, bind a greater proportion of Norway's total defence resources than in some other NATO countries on an approximate stamp size and where the territory is not so important, we must also be able to assist other parts of NATO defence, and we must be prepared to assist in international operations. Because we can't even count on being able to call for assistance and help as a matter of course if we don't have anything to do with it when others need it. It would simply not be understood whether Norway as one of the world’s richest countries focused unilaterally on its own geographical area of security and defence policy. A ‘smart’, more effective and mobile defence is the objective of the conversion of defence in very many countries. Land defence in Norway is roughly halved in a relatively few years. The assumption has been that investment in modern equipment and new opportunities for exercise and training should not reduce defence capabilities accordingly. Savings in operation through the conversion and development of the Army, Naval Defence and Air Force Organisation is a prerequisite for the provision of sufficient funds for new investments. The same can be said to apply to basic funds for international operations, even though the operation of individual international strength contributions in peace operations which are now known to be covered outside the defence framework. But this whole process of conversion is slow, and a lot of work remains on the defence, especially the army, the organisational structure and the geographical seduction. There is no doubt that the transitions here will be the most demanding and challenging, including the demand for political clarification and debate. I think the Stortinget expects an overall arrangement for this, not a piecewise proposal where it is difficult to understand the whole. For example, on the point of view: is to start by shutting down the Eujemo, so to present constantly new elements in a kind of ongoing decision-making process, I would warn against it. We have to start at the other end, we have to ask: what does the defence need collectively – and where should the individual elements be? It's the most rational way of getting in touch with an already complicated political decision-making process. We know the crossroads of the future discussions on these issues, the Defence Study 2000, the next long-term programme, but we also get a taste through the spring's treatment of St. gericht. No 38 for 1998-99 on international operations. A few words to conclude about the level of the budget. After a decision — according to the judgment — of today’s majority position, there will be a deficit of 361 million. kr mid-term in the current four-year long-term programming period. Of course, it's worrying. However, it may be useful, for the sake of soberness, to point out that we are not inferior to the year's settlement than we did after last year's conciliation, as the Progress Party and the Right'mountain' budget are similar. Last year, more than half a billion were lacking in meeting the projected level of appropriations for the long-term programme even after the budgetary agreement. Following today's adopted decision, the total deficit is 361 million. kr over 2 years. This year's budgetary settlement is thus a small contribution to the recovery of the deficit last year. And that's the way it might not be as sad as many people want it to be. The majority assumes that this will be reclaimed through increased appropriations in 2001 and 2002. It should not be impossible, given the amount of the sums. I still believe that the defense's problems are at a different level than this. A $300 million deficit. or 500 million. kr is not decisive in relation to the quite monumental challenges we face in creating a more fundamental balance between tasks, structure and means of operation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e207	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e210	I have noticed that the representative Godal in his speech has spent a lot of time talking about security policy, about conditions for construction, or degradation, depending on how you see it, of Norwegian defence, while relatively little time was spent talking about the budgetary consequences and developments, and I noticed the representative of Godal's conclusion. What I think there is agreement is that Norway is going into a very special situation. The territory binds, as Mr. Godal said, and we're going to have international responsibility at the same time. So you have to make sure you find a structure that looks out for both of them. Per. So today we have a goal drawn up through the previous long-term message, where the assumptions have failed in turn and in order. If you were to take inward what the representative Godal said, it doesn't look so bad anyway, despite this agreement. – And there was nothing much better in the comparison that the Right Party and the Advance Party made with the government parties last year, according to Mr. Godal. In some ways, if you think about it a little bit, he might have quite a relative view. But it was also a formidable contraction that the government had thrown forward last year, despite the fact that a few months earlier you stood there and said that everything is fine, and we're going to keep what we've said. Every time you've set a goal, you've failed, and it didn't get any better through the settlement that was now concluded. And then my question becomes: is the representative Godal satisfied with the budgetary development as it has been over the last few years, not least in view of the excess of material from stock?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e219	Let me first express my joy at the fact that the chairman of the committee drew his own line – it was under the circumstances well done. Let me say if the basic question about the representative Godal is satisfied: I don't think there are any members of the defence committee who are happy to record that we lack 361 million for two years in the long-term programming period. to live up to the objective. At least I haven't met anyone, either in majority or in minority. But the situation is relatively not worse than it was last year after the defense friends Right and the Progress Party had really taken a few moments to correct the situation. Then the deficit – I want to tip – was between 400 and 500 million. kr, a little depending on how you rain. So now it's down to 361 million. kr, and that is a contribution in the right direction, although I am aware that both the Right and the Advance Party budget would result in more money than that. But it's the gravity of the finance committee that counts. Last year, the Right and Advance Party were to finance the cash support and had to bite in the sour apple in a good number of areas that the parties prioritised, with a result that they could not be fully satisfied with either. This year we bit the sour apple, with varying degrees of wrinkle on our noses. Someone didn't think it was so bad, others thought it was annoying. And with that as a starting point, we didn't have all the money we were supposed to have in the areas that are prioritised in the individual professional fractions either. So simple is the answer to that question. But I have to repeat that even if we had been fully up to date this year with the long-term programme's assumptions, the defence concerns would have been almost the same, because the challenges are far greater than what is on the table through today's budgetary position. There are far other and more fundamental challenges that the defence is facing when it comes to finding the solution to the many double imbalances than what lies in a few hundred million dollars – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e228	What makes the Labour Party's views quite worrying, among other things, is: what I experienced myself in the last Holmgang debate we had. The party leader of the Workers' Party was present, and he had so much contempt for the fact that last year we made such a strong effort to bring the appropriations back to the Defense. This means that the combination of the Workers' Party and the government parties is worrying about the further development of the defence budgets. That the Bjørn Tore Godal himself is probably of those who are unhappy about it, unfortunately cannot correct the fact that the leader of the party seems that last year's use of money was poorly spent money. That Godal has a bad conscience, we also look at the attitude, when he says that he will take this back to next year, although I have to say that I am a little uncertain about what it is like to work 'for the economic... framework to be fulfilled'. This was something that started early in the 1990s, which was to promise that it was the next year to do better. But what is my question, is about the opinion that is now forming on Norwegian defence, for the Evening Post announced on Friday the following: ‘Norway, formerly known as one of the finest NATO members, is about to move down the list, it is claimed in NATO.’ So it's about the list of military capabilities. And it goes on to say: ‘We are often unable to meet NATO’s strength targets, and are poor at both home and outdoor levels.’ Isn't it true that when it's important for us to be in Europe, we need something to offer – and that's what we do? Is Godal not therefore concerned that the cuts that the Government and the Workers' Party have now made should make it even more difficult for us to achieve our goals, have the strengths that we want, and therefore it will be even more difficult to tell the Europeans that when we are going to join, it is to be able to contribute?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e245	Anonymous sources I initially have little sense of whether they are Norwegian or foreign. I also have no particular sense of anonymous NATO sources. I do not doubt that there are NATO officials who are concerned, but I have met public NATO sources who say that that concern is not only linked to Norway, but to very many countries in NATO. It is the United States, the United Kingdom, France and a piece of road Germany that can deliver in relation to the new demands of time, while many other NATO countries cannot. I strongly doubt whether Norway is particularly negative in the pile of smaller NATO countries facing very many of the same migration problems that we are doing. Not to say that this is not worrying, but it is a concern that the entire alliance must bear, and that we must do something with it through the conversion of defence that is so obviously needed, and that is initiated through the work of the defence study 2000, the government's selection in this area, and not least through the next four-year programme. I have to repeat when it comes to the level of appropriations: even if we had had 361 million this year. kr more in the budget than what will be the result of today's discussion, I don't think that would have led to the anonymous NATO sources being particularly less concerned. This is not where the solution lies. It lies in much more extensive conversion work than exactly what is illustrated by this level of allocation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e252	It seems that the defence committee is quite unhappy, because it seems that they are not getting any say in anything. They come out here and complain, one after the other, even if they're in and they make multiples for something. But it's far from the realities of life. Not least when you look at the investment budget, there's no way how much money you've managed to "haia" yourself. There are billions in billions – for new frigates, for new shooting range, for MTB and for fighter aircraft. All in all, the money is flying over to the defense committee, so I don't understand why they're sitting here laughing. This is the first question: What is the main reason why the Labour Party cannot wait with these investments? Is it because they're in NATO, because you don't want to wait for the defense selection to be set, or is it because one doesn't want to take the signals that come from the professional militaries? What is the reason why one does not want to wait? I was able to attend the VEU delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly. There was a very sensible working party politician, Lord Judd, who had an intervention going on the Kosovo problem and how NATO action had turned off, about the purpose, whether it was to marginalise Russia osb. He asked a number of critical questions. Now one of the reports from just Kosovo sees the ethnic cleansing continuing. The new NATO concept that was tested may not have been as successful as one said in the first place. My other question to Godal is: Does he think it is important that the Norwegian collapse in full openness discusses the war one was at, and the new NATO concept?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e263	If the representative of Langeland has got the impression that I am so unhappy, I can conclude after this reply that at least I am not as unhappy as he is. I basically believe that the defense has a high share of the total value creation, and that there is reason to be satisfied that we are on many and twenty billion kroner every year, and land about there, with quite a lot of certainty, even though the proportion is not as large as it should be. When we have not found it timely to postpone what we believe to be structurally independent investments, such as new frigates and new aircraft, it is because we believe that the renewal is absolutely necessary if we are to have effective sovereignty enforcement and monitoring in the Norwegian area. That's an important national question. I have to admit that I have met many ENs who actually agree that this is necessary, regardless of the major issues of an allied European nature, on which the representative of Langeland was involved. We have discussed NATO's strategic concept many times, we have discussed Kosovo many times, and I am absolutely sure that the House of Commons will repeat this debate. But the strategic concept has therefore been adopted as necessary consultations within the appropriate body of the Great Britain. This does not prevent the representative of Langeland, the undersigned and many others from getting back to this in many other contexts in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e274	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e278	I must try, at the outset, with a somewhat doubtful form of dictatorship, which may explain why I was not present at the beginning of the debate. It should probably be called that so: whoever on Monday wants to join must travel on Sunday at the latest! [[Laughter]] That said, the main task is to provide the budget on which the Committee has voted, which, from the Government's proposal, has a regular framework of DKK 24,670 billion and, as a result of the conciliation, has been reduced by 181 million. kr. I would also like to say, on behalf of the Committee, that the vote is marked by two different views. One view is expressed through the majority voting, and within the framework adopted, the Right and the Progressive Party have promoted their view on how to prioritise. Besides that, the setting will speak for itself. Of course, for the Progress Party, the main challenge has been that we see that the conciliation reached and the budget presented differ considerably more in reality than the first round of the debate so far has pointed out. For us in the Progress Party, it has been important to keep up the objective that was set. Now it was also quite low in relation to the simple fact that the Storting through the long-term message, St. gemeld. No 16 for 1992-93, has adopted a structure, and this structure had a clear cost associated with it. And we have to almost see it in that perspective, not just in the perspective of the last long-term message. It is precisely the aim of the Great Britain for the last period that has led us wrong, and since we cannot expect a structural change until after the next long-term announcement has been dealt with in 2001, it goes without saying that the goal of the Great Britain in 1993-94 is, in fact, what our defence is to consist of. The fact that some structural elements have been taken out along the way may tell more about the economic situation than about the willingness to maintain the structure the Stortinge has chosen. So we've gradually seen a thinning of the defence structure over time, and we've seen a clear effect of under-budgeting. Then you can always discuss up and down how big these gaps have become over time. It has little in common in many ways. But the gap between what is now the situation and what would have been the situation of the Right and the Advance Party budget proposals earlier is significant. It would be totally wrong to produce it differently. Then we can also discuss a little of what was ultimately the consequence of the gap between the Government's budget proposal for the current year and what was put into place thanks to the Progress Party and the Right. That amount was initially 595 million. kr held up to approx. 820, if I do not remember errors, and in addition, some adjustments were also made along the way through regrouping. But at least it wasn't the government's profit, and it wasn't the Workers' Party's profit at all. And that's where we're now. It's okay to try to decorate the façade when you think it's necessary, but we don't get away from the fact that the government has followed a profile in its defence budget that gapes far from what was the goal. It was a hard job to get additional funding for international operations in place, and here we also received support from the Workers' Party. So over the years, you've tried all sorts of strange tricks by borrowing from investment budgets and almost using the Defence's investment budgets as a bank for other businesses. Hopefully that's now systematically settled. But I think it takes political will from year to year to do it. And there would be an absolutely impossible situation for the defense whether the policy was passed on on to the economic side that had been set up in the past. And it's not very decorated when you say that the gap is just from a couple of hundred million dollars to a three-four hundred. The reality is that over time, the defence's stockpiles of spare parts, ammunition and parts of weapon systems have become so dramatic that I don't think SV will feel very comfortable with the real situation – and that's pretty bad! This means that you have had to eat from the stock, you have to keep the investment budget to keep it up. And it hasn't lacked statements from the Defence Management to put things in place and in the right light. But it hasn't been possible politically to follow up what you've said yourself, and that's why we're where we are. Then to the duty of protection. The duty of protection is spoken aloud and beautifully on every occasion. But the duty of protection has been and will be used by the majority as a balancing item. We have a framework for protection that is mostly 12 months – some get 9 months and some 6 months – and we have to make sure that this is shaved through early de-icing. The next year, quota 8/2000 will be called up a few weeks later, and it is likely to be a question of how they are going in 2001. We don't know anything about that. In addition, more and more months of service are being transferred, and that means, in sum, what has been done, both by the Government and, in part, by the Workers' Party, that we have just used the duty of protection for balancing. It seems quite pointless. You'd rather have the courage to say what you really want. On top of this, the defence has been given a number of new tasks in the budget now presented. Schengen costs of 50 million. kr has been entered in the budget by the Government. You take it, you take it! The most sensible thing would be to give new tasks and not to remove old ones, to finance them further. That's how it should be, and that's also what the Advance Party has been in favour of. Nor has it raised any particular doubts that, through the development that has taken place, the defence has become seriously unbalanced, not only in the relationship between operation and investment, but also in relation to the structure and the tasks assigned to it. It is therefore important that we reach the crossroads that comes when Stortinget is going to treat St.meld. No 38, making a correct choice of level of international operations, so that one does not in any way undermine the entire work currently being done by the Head of Defence with the study and the basis for the notification. It has been raised in doubt that Norway will have a special need to maintain a purely national defence – something that the representative Bjørn Tore Godal was in – simply because we are who we are and because we are located there, and cannot allow us to do what you can in a number of other countries in Europe. However, political leadership — with a thin line under management — must eventually begin to understand. It's obvious that the government's management didn't understand this, otherwise you would never have deviated from the principles you laid down. And when, last week, the Minister of Defence in the evening post almost recognized that there was a little bad with NATO, the responsibility must be with the minister and the government she represents. That must be where the problems lie. Then you have to do some work to correct it – you have certainly had enough time to get this right. At least there is no point in complaining about the Progress Party – I do well to include the Right too, as we now agree on a draft budget within a narrow and unpleasant framework. There are a number of consequences of this imbalance. I have mentioned the situation with regard to spare parts, keeping things going, obviously getting worse and worse. There are other ways to do it, for example: by changing the structure in order to adapt it to the frameworks. But it requires a number of steps that the government, if it wished, could have increased the pace at. It's actually the Storting that's been pushing for a structural assessment, just because you see where it's going. It is also the case that other assumptions against this budget have been waived. This was the debate on the region of the East, where, after considerable problems, the Stortinget, I would argue, made a decision on development. It had a price tag attached to it. But in the context of the budget, it was suddenly gone, what was needed by funds, except to keep a project administration running around in the guise. So it's a failure of assumptions in relation to the Biggest Decision. Now, if you say we're going to fix this at the next crossroads, I have to say that I want to see it first. And since the area of the region is crucial for training forces for international operations in the future, it must be of interest to those who point out that we are to take our responsibility internationally, to ensure that this is developed in parallel. Now you're probably going to say that you're doing it because it's not sure that you need the money that fast. The government presented a budget that had the impact that was probably necessary, but then suddenly, in the happy hour of the conciliation, one found to send the money back to the skate, or where they had to be landed. So it's a little weird that you can't be consistent in this area either. It has been said that in a way we do not fulfil our role in NATO as well as before. But then you have to look again at how we have prioritised the defense. Looking at the share of the defence budget in GDP, it has fallen quite dramatically in us. And if we look at it in relation to the state budget, there are other budgets that have increased quite emphatically — while the defence has been going down in the row. It's possible that you think you could take out a security gain here, but if you look at the world around, it's not as safe. The importance of building a defence — and education in this context — is, of course, the long-term perspective. It is not that you can acquire frigates overnight if you could dig out the money. These are projects that take 10-15 years to put in place, and when the basic assumptions on the investment side fail, it all collapses easily, like a card house. And that's what's involved in bringing us into one exercise. In my opinion, we have done a good job in relation to NATO. We look at the situation in relation to our population – with approx. Two thousand soldiers out there, who all reports suggest doing a good job, and with a squadron who, according to their assumptions, did an excellent job during the military action in Kosovo – there's no reason to hang out with the beak, as I understood the Minister of Defense. 2,000 soldiers of a population of 4.5 million people would give a couple and twenty thousand from a country of 45 million people – and then you can count on the relative effort. We're not doing it bad at all. When you use the duty of protection as a basis for balancing and reduce the length of the duty of protection, it ends up producing soldiers who will not initially be fit to serve abroad. And that's exactly what it takes! It would be irresponsible to rely on too short basic education to build up so quickly. And the recruitment measures have been for periods so men weren't very good, we've discussed that in the past. It's important to put in place a system that ensures better recruitment. But you can't use the duty of protection as a balancing object, because then you lose the whole foundation to get the people you think you need to do international operations. This is about safety, and if you don't have enough training and practice, you might have to ask the question whether this is good enough. Militaryly, you've done what you can, you've speeded up the equipment you've been able to do, to get things in place. I would argue that the appropriations allocated to operations abroad are not, in fact, sufficient because preparation and material costs have so far meant consumption in the warehouse. With this I take up proposal No. 1 on behalf of the Right and Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e321	Hans J. Røssorde has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e326	It is easy to share the concerns of the Chairman of the Committee on many of the issues raised in the submission, not least with regard to the protection obligation. But I would like to point out here, for the sake of order, that the majority assumes that the late call for quota 8/2000, as it is called, will be matched by a corresponding extension the following year. So there is no ambiguity about this, as we perceive the government side in that matter. His J. Røss soil then refers to the shooting field. The majority refers to the decisions and assumptions of the Storting and to the budgetary position regarding the progress of the Eastern Region. There is therefore no delay or delay in the project, there is no rematch in relation to the clarification we had just had a few months back in Stortinget. But one of them, under the sign of the budget savings knife, has come to realize that one can delay the purchase of property as part of makeshift operations, so that they are shifted slightly over time. But the progress of the project is actually on schedule. It is therefore completely wrong when it is claimed in the media and by others that it is the demonstrations that have led to the project being put on ice, added to it or delayed. There are no such signals in today's majority position. Let me say that fundamentally, I believe that many of the problems that the committee's chairman was now facing should have received a more comprehensive response in the long-term programme that the government presented in Stortinget for a short time. I think we can say in retrospect that the current long-term programme was not a full response to what was known about the defence challenges at the time the programme was presented. Much of what has been said in retrospect, both from the defence department and others, suggests that I am right in that assumption. That burden is, of course, on the government, but also on very many others. Now we have to start on the basis that exists, and work on it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e335	I understood the representative, Bjørn Tore Godal's reply, that in a number of areas he agreed on some of the issues that I raised in my post. So I do not see any criticism in the main features of Mr. Godal in relation to what I said. This should indicate that in many areas we agree more than the budgets express. Then it should probably worry us both that you have a government that is obviously not quite to be trusted in defence. We can then sit down and worry a little later in the day. In the case of the Eastern Region, Mr. Godal that it was progressing according to the plan, and that's it. But when you have a progress that goes well, it assumes that you also have the means to make that progress. So it's going to be a displacement. I'm glad that the representative Godal says the target is fixed, it's just a little further away. Now you don't have to draw it out indefinitely, because then you need a very strong binocular to the seventh and last to see the goal. I hope that it will be possible to balance this as soon as you are sure that you do not need a binocular that you cannot afford to buy. The representative, Godal, was also in his post in the defence's way of organizing, and the demands that need to be made in the further design of both structure and organisation. He said that there will be an advantage if very much of future reorganization comes together as a package. There I must agree with the representative of Godal. But when the Army now presents its vision, I see it as an expression that you have now come as far as you could go. You have to do something. But I fully agree that the best thing to do is to look at a future structure at one time as a package, like what the Americans did on another scale under their Base Close round.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e344	The representative Røsjord began with some wordings that reminded me more of an agricultural debate than of a debate on the defence budget. Among other things, he said: that the Government has followed a profile ‘which gapes far from the objective’, that the defence stock has ‘become submerged’ over time, and finally that one has had to eat of the inventory. I respect the need to deal with adopted objectives and plans, but there are enterprises in the defence that are affected by changes in the environment around us. These changes require ongoing willingness and ability to convert, not least in relation to the use of resources. When the defense obviously sometimes does not make this conversion sufficiently, is the solution to grant ever more money? Is the defense still going to eat money you don't have? I think it would be useful in that way to reduce the number that eats.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e353	It may not have been so surprising that the debate approached a sort of agricultural debate. You could expect that from a government where the Center Party has solid control. Nor is it unknown that in agricultural debates, if we are to stick to it, we are more than willing to use subsidies. Now I'm not going to drag this any longer than necessary. But I want to point to one thing that I agree with, sir. Holstad i, and that's that part of the conversion has not done according to the assumptions. In its time, the size provided for the reduction of staffs and, to put it that way, higher powers with approx. 25 pst. I guess the opposite has almost happened. It would be wrong to say that, but progress has not been in line with what you should expect. Then you might be able to defend the defense's leadership because they've been in continuous conversion for eight to nine years, and it also requires an administrative apparatus. But when you start getting a system where you get rid of troops that are to be disposed of, almost is not larger than the number that disposes of them, then we have no doubt a problem. So there's something that can be done when it comes to conversions. The size has also not given any particularly good help, because in the case of some of the changes the defence has wanted, the Stortinget has taken into account district policy considerations. The representative of Holstad will probably be well aware of this. A number of decisions have obviously been more marked by regional political goodwill than by the needs of the organisational structure that have been clarified in advance. So here I think more people can thank each other for getting into this. The main structure itself is still solid, as the Storting has adopted it, and then you get to stick to it, then. Otherwise you have to propose structural changes, and so to date you have not done so in the format shown.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e362	I'm going a little further when it comes to the thread that Holstad's representative picked up: the progress party is known to be reasonable rabies when it comes to cuts in the public sector, agricultural support and various things, because one requires efficiency improvements, it's called. Now one knows that what is proposed by the inspector-general is to reduce the duty of protection and the number of exercises, i.e. – in my opinion – to start in the wrong place. The representative Røsjorde himself was concerned that one had to do something with the staff management/leader structure part. So my question is, is it to increase the budget the best you can do? Then a wrong signal is given to the defense, i.e. they can only carry on as they do. Or how will the chairperson of the Defence Committee sympathize with the objectives that one has previously adopted be met by the Defence Committee? The second question is how to prevent conflicts precisely in order to ensure that one escapes from joining forces. Is it true, as the Progress Party does, to cut 7.5 billion on the foreign budget for, among other things. be able to increase the defence budget? It is not an important part of the prevention work just to strengthen the work of creating, for example. social justice around the world? The last question is related to the EU Army and NATO. I think it is a little strange that US Secretary of State Strobe Talbott is quite critical of the developments we are now seeing in relation to the EU military forces. Based on the knowledge I have about the American sympathies of the Progress Party, I'm going to ask what view the Progress Party has on that development.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e373	It's certainly not often SV's representatives go to the United States to come up with arguments that they themselves like. This may be a new trend. But it probably has to do with the NATO discussion in SV as well, so we can probably expect something big eventually. I have to admit that relatively the SV's budget on the defence side has increased in recent years. How to interpret it, I have some problems with it, but there might be a little willingness to do it better than what you've done in the past. And it certainly doesn't have much to do. So to the question of just spending more money. I have pointed out that we have stuck to the objectives set by the Storting, and that is what we are trying to substantiate financially. There is no aim to spend the most money on the defense. But it is and must be a goal to achieve what has been decided in the Storting, and take the consequences of it. And that's where the problem lies. It has also been – let me call it – under-budgeting, it has been borrowing, as I said in my first post, etc., which has caused you to run out over time, and it is not necessarily just the defence. I want to say again that in terms of the management structure, you could go a little faster and get it done. But it's true that when there's a problem with getting enough money for what I get to call completely necessary things, shooting for training and training for crews, it says a lot about many, including that defense equipment costs a lot more money in a modern time. And we need to participate in it in line with the other NATO countries, and also with what is associated with this EU army as Mr. Langeland seemed to be startled, along with Strobe Talbott. Just to give a small picture: On questions from the Committee, the Council of State said that to practice Home Security next year as intended, there are 83 million missing. kr. It tells us a little bit about the state.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e384	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e387	When the chairman of the committee says that he would like to reduce 'higher powers', I think one must have a higher title than the vice president and committee leader to do it. Many posts in this room are currently beginning with the last debate in this millennium. And it gives room for reflection that today we have the last defence budget debate in this millennium. What we're adopting today is adding leading points to the next millennium. The year that has passed has been marked by many large and small events. The biggest event, and I think it was the hardest thing to deal with, was Kosovo. There were many heavy and difficult balances we had to go through before a decision was made. NATO Secretary-General, Lord Robertson, still repeats a sentence to which I can subscribe: «We have won the war, now we have to win the peace.» The difficult situation is not over. There are hundreds of years of hatred and conflict that are the backbone of today's situation. Bridge construction between peoples and peacemaking is a major and difficult task. Someone, probably well-meaning, has told me that this is an impossible task, and that I am young and idealistic who believe that it is possible. To them I would say that that day no one has the hope and belief that peace between people is possible, that day it will be impossible to create peace. So in the danger that I have now pulled up the whole discussion about Kosovo, I nevertheless want to give a tribute to the Norwegian team who has done service and agreed to serve in our international operations. We've sent them out, and we know that sometimes they've been facing a difficult problem, but we appreciate that they're doing such a problem. The Minister of Defence will visit our forces in Kosovo tomorrow, and I would like her to take with her a greeting from the Chair of the Great Britain to the women and men who are making an effort for peace in Kosovo now. We're facing a change in defense. The budget for next year is based on St. ermeld. No 22 for 1997-98, but we know that the next long-term message will provide new leadership for the defense. I have been looking forward to a constructive debate on defence objectives and value anchoring, a debate in which the Norwegian people would have a conscious relationship with the Defence. But I must say that I am disappointed in the way parts of the defense have managed this possibility. I am disappointed at how the defence so far has contributed to this debate. Instead of having a debate on overall objectives and anchorings, we're back down to a level where we're talking about camps and closures. In the course of the process, plans are published publicly, and rumors of closures are rife throughout Norway. The result is that people in that quite country are lying in the trenches – to use a trade expression. What we need is an overall debate to anchor the defence tasks and the large, long lines. I am aware that we need to take some tough grip on the structure, but that discussion must come after we have the defense's anchoring in place in the people. In the international arena, there has been a lot of innovation and change. NATO’s new strategic concept and Defence Capabilities Initiative was adopted in Washington. This will present challenges to Norway in the future and premise on changes in defence. DCI is an important measure to maintain and improve the ability of allied forces to interact at a time of rapid technological development. The EU Summit in Cologne in June 1999 declared ambitions to assign a military role to the EU in the context of future European security management. This poses institutional challenges. The EU will rely on the use of NATO forces and has repeatedly clarified that they do not want duplication of forces. In my view, it is not just a challenge for Norway, but it should also be a challenge for the EU to find a solution for countries that are members of NATO, but not in the EU. We in the Christian People's Party see it as important that our current opportunities for influence in the WEU continue in new bodies, but will stress that NATO should be the focus of Europe's collective security. Then to the duty of protection. The general obligation of protection is enshrined in the draft budget of the Christian People's Party and the Government for the year 2000. The duration of the initial service is proposed unchanged; twelve, nine and six months, as adopted in 1999, and there is no reason for early termination other than that foreseen in 1999. The Christian People's Party agrees with this. A shift has been made during the service period to quota 08/2000. This is done by pushing the call point, but I want to make it clear that this does not change the length of the initial service of these teams. The government's proposals involve the contingencies that comply with the requirements being called in 2000, and there is no need to strengthen entry 01 in order to ensure this. On this basis, I must say that the Progress Party and the Right's comments seem quite meaningless. We are facing major investments in material things in the future. I don't want to go into the details about these. This is ample opportunity for us when the Government presents a new investment profile, but I would nevertheless point out that the operating situation is a challenge in this context. The government will focus on stabilising first and then reducing current operating costs. The Christian People's Party agrees with this, and will stress that in order to make room for future investments, it is important that this is implemented. Finally, I would like to comment on one point. In my first post about the Defense in this room, I said that I would like to see in my time in the Defence Committee that Norway should appoint a female colonel. It's now happened, and I see this as a step in the right direction towards an increased proportion of women in the defense's higher degrees.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e408	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e412	I have noticed that both the Labour Party and now the Christian People's Party are very satisfied with the budgets. It makes me very worried. The representative, Eriksen, also talked about leading into the next millennium – it's very popular to talk about today. When it comes to leadership from the Christian People's Party, I'm not so optimistic on behalf of the Defense Party. The representative, Eriksen, also says that she is disappointed in the defense, and points to closures. She may also think of the Eujemo, her own country of'mo'. Then I have to ask: what will the Government and the Christian People's Party contribute to these maintenance? This is the Government and the Christian People's Party's own responsibility. You can't blame the defense when the defense doesn't have resources! The defense has been asked to look at the budgets, look at the costs. They have been asked to do something about it, but the Christian People's Party and the Government are not willing to contribute financially. We have in the first row immediately deviated from the long-term message. Just after its adoption, the Christian People's Party departed from the long-term message. We talked about zero growth and one-half pst. annual growth — by contrast, there are downward adjustments in the budget. This is not credible. Because of the budgetary conditions, with which the Christian People's Party is obviously satisfied, we know that planes must be on the ground, ships are at berth, the army lacks opportunities and resources to practice what they want, and the duty of protection must be reduced. And there are still warnings from the head of defense that the invasion defense is in danger. Does the Christian People's Party and the representative Eriksen feel satisfied with this, and what will she possibly do to contribute financially?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e427	I'm almost tempted to just keep my post one more time, so maybe the representative Width could hear what I was criticizing and not criticizing. I did not mention anything in my post that I was criticizing closures, but I criticized the play of the debate on the Defense in Change and into a new form. That's the debate I'm calling for, that we can manage to discuss the long lines, what's going to be the overall goal, and get a anchor on the Defense, why we're going to have a defense, in the Norwegian people. We need that. Instead, we have suggested that we pull ourselves into trenches, and then everyone should keep their camp somewhere. Since the representative mentioned Evjemoen, I might also ask him to follow him a little bit in geography, as I come from West Agder, and Evjemoen is not in West Agder, but in East Agder. We might cut the r in both states, but there's still two different counties. So the question is whether I am satisfied or not satisfied. I don't think we should continue as the Progress Party does, gaping around a gap, and constantly rising above that there's a lack of resources, but using the means we already have, to make a defense. I believe that we have enough money, but that is the use of the money we have to discuss in the future. We have to stick our finger in the ground and see that we're here now. And then we aim – and we've been involved in working for it – to meet the long-term message's assumptions. But it will be a question of the overall economic situation, and it will be a question of how we can manage the funds that the Defense has.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e436	At first a little bit to the name brother said in the introduction about the budget last year. It's completely wrong. What happened was that we included in the budget about One and a half billion of the 815 million. kr that the Government proposed to cut. Later, expenditure on international operations was in the second quarter, approx. 220 million. kr, taken out of the budget instead of the inside, and thus we even noticed that the final result was a few tens of millions less than after the government's own long-term message. To the representative Eriksen I will be allowed to say that after we did this last year, I have not heard a pipe that that budget was bad for the country. It was beautiful to talk about it during the whole election campaign last fall, but this year one will still cut a few hundred million dollars in this budget. And then they say in the setting that one should take it back next year. I have to ask: when we look at the Norwegian economy today, when will they be able to stand on their own long-term messages and plans if they don't do it this year? The second is about international operations. In the budget, there is a direct under-budget, as only expenditure is covered in the first half of the year. We already know this. If they do what they've always done before, they'll come back to revision for the spring and take it from scratch. 1760, tangible goods. That's how they've always done it. And I want to ask Eriksen, can she now guarantee that it won't happen again in the spring? The third relates to the obligation of protection. When one takes five weeks, one can't add them to the next year. Then you ruin a whole holiday plan on the moane, and you get two quotas at the same time in August. It's completely impossible. Obviously, cutting a five week at the beginning, it's going to be five weeks less.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e447	Now we're going to budget for the planned framework. The long-term message being provided is a work tool, and we reserve the right to look at both the situation within the Defence and to look at the possible international involvement, and, given that it is involved and to grant the money that we can give to the Defense based on the overall economic situation. That we just grant for the first six months of international peace operations, and just set it up, I think it's a reasonable way to do it, because we don't know what kind of commitment we're going to be involved in in the second six months. That's why we're coming back to the Storting and the Government's assumption that we're going to spend the second half of the year. That's what I think, as I said, is a reasonable way to do it, instead of pre-buddying, thinking that there we'll be involved in a situation, and there we won't be involved in any situation. The representative asked me one more thing that I don't remember what was. I'm sorry, President!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e456	The defense's expenses have to go down, and then it's important that we make the decisions in the right order. I was a little surprised by the representative Eriksen's play that the debate on this was now about to go wrong. I see it as perhaps the Government and government parties who have put this debate on the wrong track, since they have first adopted an investment profile and a long-term, subsequently decided to reconsider the defence concept, and then they doubt the investment profile of the old programme that has expired. If the representative Eriksen does not see that this is a part of steering the debate in an unfortunate direction, and that the structural debate that is to come up is absolutely necessary, because if a defence is to be reduced, it must become less one place. It's not possible to spread the money out the way you're doing it now. So I think that criticism might have been a little bit over the goal. Then there's another thing that the representative said, that we have to put the concept of overall objectives in place first, and I fully agree with that. We have to do it, and then we have to do it, for example. See if we have too little attention on and too little money for peacemaking work versus what we spend on military operations, as the representative Godal was inside his post. Is the representative Eriksen convinced that we are at the right point of balance now, or does the Christian People's Party and Eriksen SV share the view that it would be right to spend more money on peace-building work by preventing wars and conflicts from occurring? It could prevent us from using infinite resources without being able to prevent the most terrible happening. These are important considerations in which it would have been very important to know the priorities of the government parties already now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e463	I understand that SV may not be so concerned about getting a full debate on the defence and a anchoring in relation to it, but that a just discusses the structure. I think we have to distinguish two things: we have material investments, and we have structures in relation to the decommissioning of camps. What I have dared to take a little kick in relation to is that we are now raising many plans on the table for the decommissioning of camps, which is part of a process within the Defence, and then all of us are in trenches and are going to protect their communities instead of having a general debate. When it comes to material investment, it's about the big things like frigates and fighter planes. I have to say that if I'm going to think a little bit ahead, I find it hard to see that we're going to have a defense without planes and without frigates. Other things are structural and need not be discussed in relation to this. Then ask the representative if we are concerned with assistance and peace-building work in parallel with the Defense, and whether we have come up to a level that we want. We haven't gotten up to a level that we want, but we've got to a escalation plan that goes over six years. I think it is very important that this goes parallel, and that we can reach quite a long way with peace-making work in neighbourhoods, but also in remote areas, using resources other than military, and that military resources should only come in as a last resort. The aid is very important, and there we share SV's vision. We would have wanted to get this plan up faster than we have the power.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e472	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e475	When it comes to the security policy part of the budget and the setting, I'm afraid that developments can soon take a different direction from the one we are now basing on and hoping for, even though I agree with the representative of Bjørn Tore Godal, who initially said that things have gone well over the last 25 years. Developments in Russia are alarming. While the Duma elections four years ago were conducted in a nearly exemplary way, the messages no doubt suggest that democracy in the country has not strengthened its roots. The pointless war in Chechnya is being waged with an extremely ruthless brutality, and if the rest of the world does not react this time to this total breach of agreements and all that is called human rights, then there is reason to fear that those who stand behind can also use such methods elsewhere when they have to find it for good. With our position in geography, this development is a strong call to keep our own defenses in order. And in all of this, talking about international operations, we must not forget that the main thrust of the Norwegian defence is and will in all the supercircumstances of the future, by its strength in the alliance context, be to prevent action against the Norwegian territory and to defend it in the event of an undertaking to come anyway. A report on the professionalisation of defence services in Europe, which was debated in the Western Union Parliamentary Assembly this day, shows that countries in Europe which are in such a way that direct action against their territory is totally improbable, now turn to small professionals and after each high-mobility unit that can quickly be taken into a crisis area far away, while those who are still exposed in geography must design their defences in order both to defend their own territory and to have the ability to participate in international peace operations. Recent examples include Poland and Finland. Norway belongs, of course, to this category, and we have to take the consequences of that in the design of our defense. When it comes to developments in the TEU, the EU and NATO, I would just like to point out that developments are now moving rapidly in the direction we feared in 1994. Today we have to go to Helsinki to help us preserve our insurance interests. I guess the next one's going to be Riga. In the name of our right of self-determination, we soon have less power than most of the other countries in Europe. The main problem in and for our defence is, as we know, the lack of consistency between objectives and tasks, and the availability of resources. Or maybe more directly: the main problem is governments and a large majority that are unable to pursue a coherent and consistent defence policy. They live by the same logic as the kärring and the rice heap. The one exception was last year. The government then received the option between its own three month old long-term message and its exit. She chose the first, and no one today can say that the budget that was then approved has been detrimental to the country, on the contrary. In the election campaign in the past in the autumn, we were given the right separation of how well things are going, not least financially. So it's going to work! During the period 1994-98, the cumulative under-coverage was about $9 billion. In the present period we are all in a sub-coverage of approx. $0.5 billion. The result is known: too little practice, unrelenting consumption in stock, too little and poor equipment, inadequate maintenance, risk of misinvestment and criticism from NATO. Budgetary cooperation with the Labour Party now in the fall was very unfortunate for the Defence. The Minister of Defence and others often talk a lot about rationalising the operation in order to obtain funds for investment. So true, so true, but in reality, the material investment chapter is constantly being lost for funds for completely different purposes than defending just her government and the plurality left is part of. Over the course of a few years, billions are involved. The last example of this is in the budget compromise between the government party and the Labour Party now in the fall, there. 1760 is running for 181 million. kr. This, of course, is both damaging to the defence and very little motivating to the personnel. And not enough: when locally unpopular rationalization proposals are presented to the Storting, too often the exact same parties that do not allow enough are opposed. The handling of Poseidon here in the Storting in spring is just the last and very delicate example of this. The rationalization gain was greatly reduced as a result of what happened here in the house. When the defense's people find out that some of the people who were behind, have not even looked into the relevant documents, they're confident. Not even the government's own support players in the Stortinget - even the government council's - followed up Poseidon, was particularly bad. In connection with the criticism against Norway, when it comes to our ability to participate in international operations, this is to say: In the mid-1990s, it was decided that Norway could, on very short notice, include an infantry battalion, a squadron F-16 fighter aircraft and some marine vessels in NATO's so-called Immediate Reaction Force in sharp operations. I've never heard the least of that this was too little for a country of Norway's size, on the contrary. The problem is that the force never stood up. This must be the primary responsibility of the government currently in office. It started well during Kosmo, and a company of Telemark battalion was soon in place in Sarajevo and did a very good job. After the government change, it stopped after everything to judge more or less, especially in the case of the recruitment and signing of contracts. The result is well known: in the spring, a reader in American newspapers could say that the Norwegian contribution to NATO's mineral strength did not come into place because the crew did not want to sail. Nice Norwegian commercial there! And it took three months – and not a few days – to get the rest of our IRF battalion in Kosovo. In Stortinget we have for a long time reminded of these conditions and have then been told that a big message is under way, and then there would be a choice of defence policy. Storing messages are good and good for their use, but not a substitute for complying with agreements and current obligations in practice. Storing messages are not good enough to replace soldiers, bullets and powder in the Balkans. Last year, a broad majority here in Stortinget reacted strongly to the government making the length of the first-time stone a balancing item in the budget. And all except SV entered for an additional permissions so that it could be executed in accordance with the current rules. Against this background, I find it very critical and sorry that the Government is also making such proposals this year, and that this is now being supported by the Labour Party. Twiping with the length of the first-time stone station in this way is as reprehensible as that the Stortinget would determine the length of the school year and thus lay out and contain within Christmas. There's something that all the teachers in this house should understand. As in previous years, in its primary draft budget, the Right consistently followed up on what we received during the management of the long-term message last year. This is, of course, and is not the subject of debate in the Right, whether it is a defence issue or not. And I just have to say right that I would have found it hard to represent a party where this wasn't the case, because one word wouldn't be threatening. This means that we had to add up to 180 million. NOK 50 million to reach the long-term message level. kr to cover the costs of the new Schengen tasks and EUR 370 million. kr to cover the 1,5 pst crop. which we entered in the long-term message and for which the development appears to be quite necessary to achieve the target – a total of 600 million. kr. This divided me by 116 million. $50 million for the Army. NOK 50 million to the Maritime Defense Agency. NOK 84 million for the Air Force. kr to Homeland and 300 million. kr for material. Now the Government and Labour Party have adopted an excessively tight framework. Within this framework, a very strict prioritisation of the primary tasks of the defence is needed. The right makes suggestions, therefore, to complete the vaccination training during a three-month period. Furthermore, the Right points to the urgent need to realise the savings potential of the Defence's top lease and suggests cutting 10 million. kr under cap. 1720. Together with some other smaller cuts, this represents a saving of 250 million. kr, which is distributed as follows: Army 93.3 million. NOK 16 million in defense of the sea. Air Force 18 million. krHome protection 22.7 million. crmaterial 59 million. krRegionfelt Austland 41 mill. kr The weapons branch money shall be used to carry out the first-time service in the normal way and for practice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e528	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e531	Life is more than defence and road – two sacred cows for the Right. In the financial debate, the Right government parties gave much criticism for their fixation of figures and percentages in the aid budget. It was quality that applied, and we didn't have to hang ourselves so terribly in this frame. That's how we used the money as a tent. Can't the Right see that this may also be the case with the Defense, that a frame is not sacred, but that that's how we use the money as the numerator? And can't Right also see that it's important that we now be able to stabilise the operating costs of the Defense, and then reduce them to give room and freedom of action for the investments that are coming?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e540	It is correct that the Right is concerned about defence and the way, and I think it is very important, when we see how little interest others are in those matters. When it comes to the comparison with the aid budget, I just have to say that after my seven years of experience with Africa, I am quite concerned that a great deal of the aid has been wasted, and a great deal is working against the objective. I think the sum sum is that the state in many places in Africa would be much better today if they hadn't received any help at all. It's okay that the representative takes it up, because it's useful to get it in place. The important thing in this context is that when a measure is adopted, a wild means must be used. And if you don't want to mean, you have to adjust the goal immediately. It is not useful to operate in the way that Stortinget has done for at least ten years – that a certain target is set, assign certain tasks and then allow much less money. It's just going to be messy. I actually think that the way the Storting operates in this area is unworthy of a national assembly. There is no local government in the whole country that could operate this way, nor any private family. I sincerely hope that at least the larger parties in this house could soon act in such a way that when they adopt a long-term message – it is a road, a defence or whatever it may be – they must of course follow up on the annual budgets. Fortunately, this is the case in the Right, and I'm proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e548	Ingvald Godal is known as a keen and warm NATO trailer. I want to challenge him in the face of NATO going to action in the Balkans without a UN mandate, and the results. We listened to the news today that 22 people were killed in the last nine days and that approx. 200,000 Serbs have fled Kosovo – overall, the situation in the Balkans is quite unforgivable. The question to the representative of Godal is how this situation could be avoided. In the light of the experience in Kosovo, the representative Godal addressed the issues related to Chechnya, and I think it is affordable. However, if the principle followed in the NATO context in the Balkans is to be followed up in Chechnya, a stronger lye should be used in relation to the Russians. Is this Godal wanting, or how does he see it as possible to do something about the situation of the Chechens? And finally, after demonstrating outside the Russian Embassy against Russia's warfare in Chechnya, we were taken into the embassy. Some of the embassies at that time were that when NATO gave the bluff in the international community, in the UN, why couldn't Russia do it in relation to Chechnya? How does Godal see that the United Nations can restore its strength?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e557	When it comes to acting without a UN mandate, our basic position is that the general rule is that there must be a UN mandate. But one is required to have a security valve as long as the UN is as little perfect as it is. The fundamental debate on this had us in connection with the Gulf War. Then the question was, what should we do if China veto a United Nations mandate? Should we just let Saddam Hussein have a army down on the Arabian peninsula? The conclusion of the large and responsible parties here in the house at that time was that Saddam Hussein had to be stopped anyway. In Kosovo, we had a situation very similar to the one we now have in Chechnya, by Slobodan Milosevic massacred his own inhabitants in a completely unacceptable and careless way. This can be discussed with the UN mandate – sometimes saying it was there, sometimes saying it wasn't there – I didn't think it was important. But in this case, it was an ethnic cleansing in the middle of Europe, and it could not be seen by the people of Europe. We then used the tool that we thought was the most effective, and I found in retrospect there's reason to ask: If one was critical of this, what was the alternative? The alternative would have been just to let Slobodan Milosevic carry on. There are problems there today with murders etc., but the question is how it would have been if we hadn't done anything. When it comes to the corresponding conditions in Chechnya, it is clear that armed force against Russia is not a decent tool, it will not solve any problem. So here we have to choose other means that can lead to the goal, simply to end the senseless slaughter of people. I think, for example, that economic sanctions are an important tool, and that is probably the only thing the Russians will respond to. The second thing we are forced to raise is Russia's membership of the Council of Europe. They got to join on strict terms when it came to human rights. Now they all break, and one should think about whether there should be consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e568	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e571	Let me first express my satisfaction with the budgetary agreement concluded between the government parties and the Labour Party. For next year, the net budget framework for defence purposes will be approximately NOK 25 billion. There's a lot of money, and it's important that you keep the management of these funds in focus. The defense is in a transition phase. Changeovers are always demanding, but this is also necessary for the Defence. The government is working on new long-term messages such as: is based on Defence Study 2000. A dedicated range of defence policy shall assess the tasks and level of ambition of the defence in the light of developments in security policy. The aim is to propose which main course should be the basis for the further development of defence. It is the view of the Centre Party that the four main principles of universal protection, invasion defence, allied support and the overall defence concept should be continued. The situation in Europe has changed over the past decade and is facing new challenges. International engagement has become a more central part of Norwegian security policy. In the public debate, recent attention has been focused on the development of a European defence and security identity with greater European responsibility for crisis management and conflict resolution. It is important, and of course we should be involved in these processes, but I allow myself to warn against focusing so much on the development of the EU and the WEU that the northern regions are in the shade. Our main safety challenge is and will be primarily linked to the north. Now the situation in our neighbourhoods is characterised as positive. There is no military threat, but there is undoubtedly uncertainty about the internal situation in Russia. Great human need and poverty, unstable leadership and internal conflicts support this. In addition to credible defence capabilities and wills, cross-border cooperation, the re-training of numerous Russian officers, projects aimed at the proper management and storage of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste, and also a broad political, cultural and economic people for people-to-people cooperation is important. The situation in the northern regions and our geographical location underlines the importance of the so-called Atlantic line and NATO for us. NATO's new strategic concept does not corroborate this. In the current debate, we have heard a lot about Norway being ‘margined’ and ‘seated’. We've heard this before. Norway has chosen not to be a member of the European Union. That is, we cannot or should not be able to take EU decisions. But we can and should be involved in taking our share of responsibility for development in Europe. And we can and should be involved in the cooperation, dialogue and process of this. I assume that Norway as a NATO country participates on the broadest possible basis in crisis management and possible military operations under the European regime. If Norwegian participation were necessary and desirable, the decision on such participation would be our own. I have also noticed that NATO remains the main player in terms of military operational strength in Europe as well. In this context, let me also point out that it is not possible to rule out the possibility of developing tensions between the EU and NATO. Norway should be aware of its role in the wider process, also in view of the fact that Norway is the European country most dependent on the Atlantic line of defence and security policy. Let me also take the opportunity to point out the importance of the United Nations. It should remain an important principle that operations outside NATO’s geographical area of competence should be anchored in the UN mandate. The last impression is that the role of the UN is weakened by the lack of willingness to use and strengthen the World Organisation. It will be unfortunate and short-sighted for the world community if this evolves. The UN is what the Member States do, and it is important that we in Norway do what we can to strengthen the role of the United Nations. The overall defence concept is an important part of Norwegian defence policy. Security and social developments are creating new forms of risk to the security of our country. It is therefore important that we now carry out vulnerability analyses and strengthen civil defence. I have become the case rapporteur for the Civil Protection Directorate, and will underline the importance and need for training and equipment for civil protection. The training goal for civil defence has not been achieved, and I will follow this with great vigilance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e592	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e595	The representative, Lahnstein, touched on Norway’s relationship with Europe and the security policy that is being designed and developed there, and on the other hand, on the Atlantic Line and on our relations with North America. On the basis of this, I would like to ask two questions. Thus, with regard to Norway’s relationship with the Western Union today, we have come as close as possible without being in the decision-making body. Is the representative, Mr Lahnstein, concerned that we can have a different position in the EU's security policy work in relation to today's position on the Western Union? The second issue is related to what is clearly important for Norway, namely ensuring optimal dialogue with the United States while maintaining close contact between the United States and Norway. What, in the opinion of the representative Lahnstein, is important in our relationship with the United States? How can we best deal with this in the future, not least if we get a little out of touch with European developments in the EU? Finally, I would like to ask: I believe the representative of Lahnstein that it is important to stand up so that the pre-storage of the U.S. Marine Corps in Trondelag is maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e606	It is quite right, as the representative Røsjord pointed out, that in my speech I was concerned about Norway's relations with Europe elsewhere, and about the development of the defence and security systems linked both to the EU and Europe elsewhere. Furthermore, I pointed to the importance for us of NATO and the Atlantic line, which I see as very important, and which I found reason to stress right now as so many are – as I see it – unilaterally concerned with the development of Europe. In addition – and I forgot to mention Røss grounde – I was concerned about the development of the UN, and I think it is very important that we, as a small country, emphasise the importance of the UN and contribute to strengthening the UN. Then to the Western Union. There we are associated members, and then Røssorde asks whether I am concerned that we can no longer be if the Western Union becomes part of the EU or disappears. I refer to the attitude, where we have said that here we can face some institutional challenges – that is clear. I am surprised at the majority comment that stands here, saying that the present form of association should be continued. It's an impossibility if the Western Union disappears. I am convinced that we are going to find good cooperation arrangements for dialogue, to participate in the processes of the EU and the WEU, and we assume that as a member of NATO we have full rights. But to be part of the European decision-making process, nobody thought about the possibility of when we said no to the Union in 1994, and we actually did – fortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e615	Let me remind you that two years into the long term we already have 361 million, respectively. kr, after what the department says, and 676 million. kr in relation to the investigation by the head of defence, following the envisaged funds. Bjørn Tore Godal said in his main post that no members of the defence committee are satisfied with the budget development, as far as he knew. I was going to ask if it was also the vice-president of the committee. It may well be a little unnecessary to ask for her posts, and not least for representatives Dagrun Eriksen's posts. Anne Enger Lahnstein expressed satisfaction with the budget agreement, and the representative Dagrun Eriksen said that it is not the money we lack, that is the way we spend the money, that can be discussed. And then I ask myself the question: how is it possible to write in the vote that the majority argues ‘that the financial framework for the programme period is being implemented by means of adjusted appropriations for the 2001 and 2002 financial years’? This is too important to be able to operate with a majority comment in the vote, while the government's spokesmen say they're satisfied, and one even says they have enough money, but the defense is using them wrong. At all, the de-countering of the under-coverage we're facing is not good, to say it carefully. I want to use the example that practicing Home Security costs 83 million. So kr, while we have a sub-coverage of the order plus-minus 500 million. kr. And the fact that we can't practice Home Security doesn't just go beyond the practice itself, that you can't do the problems that Home Security has, but it goes directly to the soldiers' lives and safety. The very premise that it has to be practiced is that you can't put the soldiers who are going to do the job that we're imposing on them to a task they're not fit for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e624	I will first take a strong distance from Bjørn Hernæs' claim that this goes on life and safety loose for the personnel. Of course it doesn't. The defense is, despite the fact that they appear to have a tight frame, of course, primarily concerned with caring for life and security. With regard to the fact that we have fallen short of the appropriations in relation to the long-term programme, there is a finding that the majority of the Committee is also making, and that it is said that work is to be done to ensure that the financial framework for the period is met through adjusted appropriations. Of course, it's important to work for it. I believe, as I said in my post, that over 25 billion kroner in the net budget for defence is a considerable and high amount. And I honestly believe that if you went into the individual elements and areas, you'd see here, like in all other areas of society, there are opportunities to save. And I think you have to look at that further. I don't think you can just spend more money in all of the problem areas, it can also be important to see how we run, how we spend the money, so that we can get the most out of it. But again: I take a strong distance from the fact that this should go on life and safety loose.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e633	I have two questions relating to the VEU. I see that there's one of these in the defense committee on this, and I might experience the answer that the representative Lahnstein gave in a previous line, which is a little questioning and wondering about what the majority have agreed to. So my question is: is the formulation of the plural is consistent with the no of the people in case it should go as they write in the comment? The second question is related to the handling of this matter by the Norwegian Government. There has been no broad democratic debate in the House on how one should proceed in relation to this. Nevertheless, one sees that the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Defence support the development of this force. The Foreign Minister also says that he wants Norway to participate at all levels in the development of this military force. And in order for us to be a little tempted towards the EU, we need to make visible and clarify a military capacity so that the EU would like to have us with it. On me, this seems very offensive from a no-government so that Norway will join in what I kind of perceive as the no-government was very critical of. When the Minister of Defence also says that Norwegian contributions to the Western Union have led us to have an influence in order to participate, my question becomes to Anne Enger Lahnstein: Is the work of the Government in this matter in accordance with the no of the people?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e642	The government is basing its policy on the people saying no to the Union and, of course, is following it up in all areas. The first question was the formulation by the majority on the WEU, and whether it could be said that the wording, which I recall, is to maintain the current form of association, i.e. an institutional form, with the EU on the WEU, is disappearing. I believe that that comment is really impossible to understand, because if it is that way that the Western Union is going to be gone, you cannot maintain that form of association if the WEU becomes part of the EU. So it's a philosophical or maybe philological question, but I don't think that makes much sense. For me, it is quite obvious that when we are not in the Union, we cannot ask for, nor do we expect, and I do not even want to be part of the European decision-making process. We could be a little bit involved in decision-making. I think there's a lot of people who want us to be there. Then I want to clarify what this is actually about. It is about crisis management and conflict resolution in Europe, and it is clear that I believe that we should be involved and take our share of responsibility there. But the issue that I might think is too much concerned about is the relationship between NATO and the EU, because one cannot rule out that there can actually be tensions between the two, and that Norway, with a strong dependence on the Atlantic line, as I also said in my speech – it is possible that SV does not fully agree with me – must be very concerned that we have not been so far in the process that we are in a way experiencing difficulties in defending the outcome of these processes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e663	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e666	SV suggested in the election campaign to spend 10 billion dollars over four years on a youth ball bet. Several of the games described this as irresponsible. It is therefore not important enough to invest in our future children and young people. Although all parties speak as if they have not thought about anything else, practice shows that there is something much more important – among other things. The defence budget shows this. Annually, Norway uses approx. Twenty-five billion dollars on the defense. In addition, the majority have adopted new investments in frigates, training fields and fighter aircraft. If we took only half of the frigate investment, it would be enough for a portable PC for all the students in the base school. It would have been a real investment in the future. But the frigates are more important, although it is difficult to see what Norway is going to do with these boats. And here's something of the main criticism from SV to all the other parts of the Storting. How does all the investments made by the parties fit into the new defence concept? How will it fit into the conclusions of the recently reduced defence policy selection? Where will the majority take the enormous costs of operating e.g.: The frigates? Yeah, there's a lot of questions here that don't have answers. The Förvarssstudy 2000 also makes major changes to the Defence – and many trade unionists want us to wait with the investments. Yes, even from NATO, there are now criticisms of the decisions on investments that all parties, except SV, have been pressing through. No, what is really needed is an open debate on what defence concept Norway should have. That debate seems like the plural does not dare take. Instead, the majority go to the store and buy what they want, and it may be useful for something anyway. Following the news today, the OSCE confirms in a report that the ethnic cleansing of Serbars in Kosovo is proceeding to the full – approx. 200,000 are already displaced. KFOR forces fear a new wave of killings and state that only the last nine days are 22 killed. Of course, this has to be stopped, but it also provides the basis for discussing whether we can learn something from the bombing for which almost a gathering of stuff went in. NATO's bombing in the Balkans had failed altogether as a clear goal of preventing ethnic cleansing. I therefore challenge the Minister of Defense to respond to the question of whether it will bring up an open debate on the course of events before, during and after the bombing operation and, if necessary, whether we should consider the implications of this action for the future NATO concept. Such a debate was actually held in the VEU Parliamentary Assembly for some hours last week in Paris, and it was very interesting to listen to. But here in Stortinget we haven't had that debate. So what do you want to do, Minister of Defense? As I said, the VEU parliamentarians were gathered last week, and they discussed, among other things. This is a democratic deficit. Some of the problem when it comes to the development of military forces is precisely that there is a lack of political governance on this. I also think that if you evaluate the relationship with the bombing operation, you can see clearly. Therefore, it must be important for the Minister of Defence to ensure that there are thorough debates on NATO’s new defence concept, on the VEU and the development of a military force in the EU. This has to be discussed here in the main hall, and I think it's too little added up from the Government's side. Not least, it is now seen in the latest development in relation to how to take the EU when it comes to EU host countries. In its budget proposal, SV spends 23 billion kroner on the defence of Norway, and we give priority to the Coast Guard and the Home Guard, as well as the conversion funds to the municipalities. In the vote, SV proposes to vote against both of the proposals, based on the fact that we are not in the Defence Committee and have the right to influence the treatment there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e685	The President will recall that all speeches should be addressed to the President and not directly to representatives or state councils.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e688	I have said several times this year from this pulpit that the propositions that have come from the government have been bad and too little leniency. Therefore, it is a pleasure finally to be able to say the very opposite: this budget was good to read, easy to find in, transparent and good. There should have been more money in it, but the actual cut-off is modest compared to the current year's budget as it was when it came from the government last year. It was considerably decorated by the agreement with the Right and the Advance Party, but the budgetary framework for next year is very similar to that for this year. Many of us would like to see the cautious framework increase that we have actually adopted here in Stortingen in the long-term communication for the current period, and we in the parties that have formed a majority and agreed this year must work hard in the context of the next two years' budget in order to increase the framework up to the level we have promised in the long-term communication. Maritime defence is facing major challenges in the year we are about to enter. Getting the contract on the construction of the new frigates with related repurchase agreements is the main challenge. The major reorganisation process in the maritime defence districts, from seven to three districts, will be another major challenge. At the same time, staff shall be provided with as much advice as possible. Motivation, well-being, quality and seafaring must continue to be important objectives for maritime defence personnel. This is why it is important to carry out the level of exercise it has set. Women are important for the Maritime Defense as for the other defenses, and the work of getting up the women's share must be given priority and not become anything just fine words written about on the paper. I am very pleased that the period of protection in 2000 will be 12 months in the Maritime Defense Agency and nine months in the Kystartillery. The ratification of the Schengen Agreement is one of the reasons why the defence of the sea is given extended tasks until next year, when we become the external border of the Schengen countries. Both for the Maritime Defense and for employment in the Norwegian shipbuilding industry, it is now gratifying that the coastguard ship Svalbard finally appears to be being built. I urge the Minister of Defense to get the contract on this construction as quickly as possible to get ahead in this construction case as well. It will also be exciting to see how the testing of the new MTB is now going in winter weather. I hope for as good test results as possible, so that we can continue building the other MTBs as soon as we can after the revision of the national budget and the new investment proposition have been adopted here in the house – this for the sake of maritime defence. But also here, employment and acquired competence in a special field are important considerations to take into account when assessing the project. I am pleased that this year the Government presented a budget for the Coast Guard, which is a real budget, and not, as last year, a debate, as Minister of Defence Fjærvoll last autumn called his own draft budget on the NRK Nordland. The Coast Guard has important tasks and has been given and will now have several new important tasks. The new Coast Guard Act entered into force this year, giving greater scope to the missions. The implementation of the new control and enforcement regime for international waters of the north-east Atlantic gives the Coast Guard new tasks at sea. And until the autumn, there will be even more tasks related to the Schengen Agreement's control work. So that's enough to catch up with. The government has worked a long time trying to find a cost-sharing system or some form of user payment for Coast Guard services. It is stated in the budget proposal that this has proved difficult, but that the Government is working further on this matter. My advice to the Government is that it should put this work away. I think it should rather concentrate its hours of work on far more important issues. In view of the fact that the Government has started to work towards a simpler Norway, it is not appropriate to work with more complicated and bureaucratic ways of working in public Norway, rather the opposite. If the users are to pay, bills must be sent by someone, paid by others, and a third, independent person must check that the sum paid has been paid in due time. In my opinion, this means more paperwork, more employees and higher wage costs. In short, it's an administration I think is totally unnecessary to introduce. The chores of the Coast Guard, which they carry out in a very good way, are public tasks whatever they carry out their duties for. And then I think it's easiest to do what we're doing now, to come up with a budget that's as adapted as possible to the tasks that we know they have, and they're going to get every year. The Ministry of Defence and Defence should rather focus on the difficult reorganisation processes that are needed to achieve a slimmer structure and less operating costs, so that we can target the investments needed to get the Defense we know we need, and the Defence that most of us will have in the future. Finally, I will be allowed to join the representative of Dagrun Eriksen in his statement on our forces in Kosovo. It is simply a fantastic effort that is being made here, and the women and men down there are living under incredibly difficult conditions. Honor them for the job they do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e711	In St.meld. No 22 for 1997-98, the Government drew up its main guidelines for the activities and developments of the defence in the period 1999-2002. The security policy situation in our neighbourhoods today must be described as positive and there is no military threat to Norway. However, security policy developments are uncertain, and Norwegian security and defence policies must therefore also take into account the challenges that may arise in the long term. Of several initiatives agreed at the Washington Summit, the ‘Defence Capabilities Initiative’, the DCI, is of particular importance. The DCI is in many ways the ‘roadmap’ to transform NATO capacities into the new strategic concept. At a time of rapid technological change, the development of Norwegian Defence needs to be seen in a close context with the development of the alliance. This is in line with the Committee's comments that national and allied security is closely linked. DCI will increase the ability to interact with allied forces, which is important both for allied reinforcements to Norway and for Norwegian participation in international operations. An early Norwegian response to much of the DCI involved was provided by the Government upon submission of the St.meld. No 38 for 1998-99, Adaptation of defence to participation in international operations. In assessing the extent to which Norwegian interests have been safeguarded in the revised CFE Agreement, it is important to highlight the starting point for the negotiations this time. In order to allow for the continuation of the flanking grid in the adapted CFE agreement, it was necessary to reach a compromise. When Turkey and Russia reached agreement on the continued validity of the flanking regime as a legally binding part of the agreement, Russia was allowed to increase its flanking roofs for armoured tanks. The system of monitored verifiable stocks also fell into the compromise solution. Norway was initially skeptical of such a solution, but joined the consensus in the case after an assurance from the Russian authorities that the number of contracted weapons in the northern part of the Russian flank would not go beyond the actual stockpiles of strength per year. 1 January 1999. This unilateral Russian commitment is reflected in a bilateral exchange of letters between the foreign ministers of our two countries. In the context of the negotiations on the revised agreement, Norway has increased its quota for armoured tanks, and we also received a quota of 24 combat helicopters. In comparison, NATO has been cut to a ceiling of approx. 15 pst. Finally, it should be mentioned that the revised agreement continues to ensure flexibility with regard to the receipt of allied reinforcements to Norway, as well as an improved verification regime. From the Norwegian side, we have worked actively with other associated members of today’s VEU to ensure that NATO membership and, through it, our current rights in the Western Union can be used as a basis for the best possible participation in future EU-related European security and defence cooperation. Our position is that this involvement and influence must apply both in relation to the broader security and defence policy issues in Europe and in relation to concrete planning and implementation of European-led crisis management efforts. Norway’s starting point is that we are positive about participating in European-led operations in the future. Strengths that Norway has today earmarked for possible efforts under the auspices of the Western Union could also be part of an EU-led structure. On the Norwegian side, however, we have a clear expectation that Norwegian strength contributions to EU-led European crisis management must match both the need for Norwegian involvement in the planning and decision-making processes leading up to a particular operation and the need for links with the relevant European cooperation bodies for the discussion of European security and defence more generally. We must assume real participation, both in order for the EU to be able to draw on NATO’s shared resources and in order for Norway to be able to put its own strengths and resources at the disposal. In drawing up its proposal for the 2000 government budget, the government stressed that growth in overall demand for goods and services should not be too strong. This is necessary if, over the years to come, we are to be able to maintain high employment and low unemployment and avoid a peculiarly high level of interest rates. It has therefore been necessary to limit real expenditure growth, which implies that all social sectors must contribute to keeping the total expenditure of the country next year within an acceptable overall framework. This implies that the defence sector must also take part in this challenge and adapt to the 2000 framework. As a result of the framework underpinning the Government's budget proposal for the autumn and the implementation of the initial service in line with current powers and the direction of the Stortinge in the handling of the 1999 budget, strict priorities have been implemented for the rest of the operating budget. Reduction of operating costs requires an overall effort. The continuation of work on changes in the military leadership of the Defence is an example of the importance of ensuring that the conversion is coordinated with adjacent developments. The management and command structure must be based on the tasks the defence is intended to perform and shall function effectively in peace, crisis and war. The introduction of a new NATO command organisation will have to be of great importance. The aim must be to have an organisation with clear responsibilities and authority that is in line with the Defence Management Concept. The change and development of the national management and command structure will be a central and priority element in the continued efforts to achieve the long-term messages. The main lines of the long-term communication have been the direction of the draft budget and the objectives of the St.meld. No 22 for 1997-98 is in no way misinterpreted. However, the overall budget line is only one important factor affecting the potential for achieving the long-term objectives of the communication. The development and amount of operational expenditure is another very important factor. The trend we are now seeing for the first two years of the long term is worrying. It has proved necessary to provide more resources to operate at the expense of our investment budget. The growing imbalance between operations and investments in relation to resource assumptions makes it necessary for me to focus on stabilising first and then reducing the current level of operation. This will be one of the greatest challenges we'll face in the future. In view of the significant need for change that exists in the activities of the Defence Agency, I will place great emphasis on directing future developments in line with the premises used in the long-term communication, St. report. No 22 for 1997-98. The overall budgetary settlement between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party has led to a slight decrease in the planned priority of construction investment in 2000. In addition, as a result of the already heavily stressed operating budget, the level of material investment will have to be reduced. As a result, we will make changes to the investment portfolio that minimise the impact on future structure. I have noticed that the majority assume that the financial framework for the long-term notification period is being implemented through adjusted appropriations for the 2001 and 2002 financial years, which I will include in the first budgetary conference in the new year. With regard to investments for the next budget, the introduction of large and important material projects has shaped our priorities in order to balance the investment budget. The start-up of the acquisition of new frigates is planned, but the conclusion of the contract is likely to take place next year. In view of the size and importance of the project, the Government has considered it appropriate to set up a State Secretary Committee, chaired by the Ministry of Defence, to monitor the progress of the project. In addition, a review of the operational economic impact of the project will be carried out. Furthermore, an external risk analysis has been carried out under the direction of HolteProject, where the aim is to independently assess the relevant risk elements of the project. The result of the above works will be presented to the Government prior to the conclusion of a contract. I also aim to conclude a contract for new fighter aircraft in 2000. Following a review of the proposed acquisition of a new coastguard vessel, it is proposed that the project should start in 2000, within an increased cost framework, with the initial ambition of an ice-enhanced ship. In the context of the development of the Eastern Region, funding for preparatory studies, planning and, where appropriate, the acquisition of properties which are planned to be part of a major trade change with the landowners concerned is initially budgeted for 2000. I have noted that a majority in the Committee requires that the budgeted resources for this project be maintained and that it is also worth 25 million. kr. It is difficult to reach the investment framework as notified by St. No 23 for 1998-99, on the investment profile of the defence, amounts to 2000 mainly as a result of developments in the operational budget. In addition, we face increased investment and operating costs associated with international peace operations in the coming period. I have explained this in more detail in St. gemeld. No 38 for 1998-99, which specifically addresses the adaptation of defence in the context of participation in such operations. In addition, the Stortinget has asked the Government to find room for starting up the acquisition of new MTBs earlier than planned, to successfully carry out the testing, and to adjust the investment profile accordingly. This will involve significant re-priorities on the investment side that will have significant consequences for other acquisitions that are important for achieving the structural objectives. As a result of the circumstances I have now pointed out, I see it as absolutely necessary to review the investment profile, in order to be absolutely sure that we are making the right investments to realise the structure required by our future defence. It's too early to say anything about the consequences for the individual projects. I intend to present a revised investment profile to Stortinget during the spring of 2000. In addition to the ordinary defence framework, the Government has set aside 860 million. kr to our participation in international peace operations. The defence's greatest contribution will be to the NATO-led international peace force in Kosovo. There is uncertainty about the costs due to the nature and scope of the mission, and the Government will come back to the question of any additional appropriations in relation to the revised national budget 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e757	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e760	The general inspector of the Army has recently presented some detailed proposals relating to the further development of the national defence system. It is clear from the press release from the Defence Command Line that this is the first paragraph of something called a package, which one should take his or her stand for bit by bit or in its entirety. I agree with the chairman of the committee on that issue at an earlier stage of today's debate. I think it is politically inappropriate to take a position on part-time proposals, to which we are all invited as such sub-proposals come. I would therefore like to ask: how does the Council of State imagine dealing with these important questions in the future? I strongly recommend that you have as your starting point that you decide what you need – how many spells, what functions to cover, and what is there of geographic alternatives in their entirety – and then we make choices about places. Any procedure based on one-way lay-offs, so to speak, that it comes more since, I think, leads to a very unfortunate procedure, at least politically. I would therefore like to ask concretely: what are the plans of the Council of State in the future for dealing with these politically sensitive but defence policy issues, so that one can ensure a process that serves all reasonable purposes?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e771	We're in many ways in a very difficult period, because we're in a period when some of the processes that are going on are being completed, while adding up to the next long-term message for the Defense, which takes care of the whole of a future defense, how we want it, and what we want, for example. shall use safeguards and other important policy elements. The investigation from the Army was first sent to the Chief of Defense. He will present it to me in the spring of 2000. Then there are two to three months left until a range of defence policy reports, and the Defence Study is also completed about that time. I want to consider how sub-proposals that will come forward now will fit into the processes that are going on, what can be kept outside of taking the huge grip, and what it makes sense to wait. I have noticed that both the speakers of the Advance Party and the Workers' Party here today have said that they think it makes sense to take this into a large collection package. I have a great sense of it, but I want to consider a little bit more closely how I will deal with the individual proposals that come, and see how it can be distributed in relation to the entire package and what should be kept out of hand. If there are proposals for savings that we can take out quickly, which will not affect the whole, it is difficult to keep them waiting. But I'm going to take a closer look. But I have, as I said, a great sense of making this a whole package.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e778	After a few of the speeches here today, from the representatives of Eriksen and Enger Lahnstein, there may be some doubts about the intentions of the Joint Commentary of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party that the economy will be put back in place over the two years that remain of the long-term. Does the Council of State consider it important to ensure an economic profile in line with the objective pursued by the Stortinget? That's the one question. So the Council of State said that it was important and necessary that the defence took its part in what was pointed out to be a kind of hot tub in the Norwegian economy, that one should somehow reduce the level, so that there was not too much growth in goods and purchases, and that the defense had to calm down a little at all. She thinks she's absolutely right. Then I have a question for the Minister: Does the Minister think that the purchase of materials abroad is significant in such a context? Then I have to say that I was a little surprised at how the minister spoke in connection with the ongoing frigate purchase, which we have run a process over a long time, and where the Storting has been involved repeatedly. I actually understood the council so that what she said, was that this could go both winter and spring before you are able to make a decision. What are the signals of the Council of State being sent to those participating in the competition? And then it's said here that we need a review of the operational economic impact. Was it not part of the proper basis that was presented to the Stortinget when, more or less, a decision was made in principle to move forward with the competition? Can the Council of State indicate when a contract may be ready?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e787	It is clear that as a specialist council, I will work to ensure that the resource access is in line with the long-term message objective. But it is also true that when you sit as a government council in a larger college and have a total economy in place, there are questions about how to put together priorities. Now I don't mean 180 million. kr below the long-term message provided by the Government is as much – it is 0.4 pst. – that it is not possible to carry. My claim is that it is similar to the assumptions of the long-term message, but not in the crown. If I should have sent so wrong signals about the frigate purchase that I have said that it will “go both winter and spring”, there must be something I have said between the lines, because it actually goes according to the plan. It's being negotiated with Bazan. An offer from Blohm & Voss is being considered. The assumption is that policy evaluation will be provided around the turn of the year, if it is planned. So there's no big deviation from what's already set up. We'll keep Stortinget informed. We have briefed the Defence Committee once more and would like to inform the Defence Committee once again about the progress of the large investment project as it is. When it comes to the purchase of material abroad having an impact on the heat flow of the economy, there are many discussions about it. The government has to deal with the assessments of this done in the Ministry of Finance, and that's what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e797	I must say that I think this has been a rather strange debate, because there are few areas where the government's lack of leadership and power of action is as evident as in the defence budget. I have to tell the Council of State that we are not particularly interested in knowing what the Council of State intends to say to its colleagues, but what policy the Council of State on behalf of the Government can present to the Stortinget. That's what we're talking about, and that's where there's questions about whether this is simply good enough. That's not what I think it is. It is not that there is a lack of money in this budget. It is a budget that significantly increases more than gross domestic product, and the government has been given the opportunity to relaunch the tax screw. What you are facing is therefore a lack of will and a lack of action. That's the willingness to prioritize the defense high enough to be the problem. In fact, the majority have said that you should take back what you are not doing this year, on later occasions. But now all the representatives of the government parties who have been up here have undermined this passus in the setting. It's about the Christian People's Party's representative and the Central Party's representative, and even in a line change. And when the government's representatives don't take seriously what they're writing, it's obviously a matter of whether the government's government is going to take it seriously. Therefore, my question to the Council of State is: does she take the majority's remarks more seriously than the representatives of the government parties in the Stortinget do? Because they don't take it seriously. In fact, what we're connecting to the center option after this debate is that it's just words, it's just talk -- there's no reality in this. But that's perhaps how it's become for a government that's gradually become more used to sitting than to leading.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e804	I said – and I believe – that the long-term message is firm, and that the resources to enter the long-term message over a four-year period should be included. Of course, I take that seriously, and I will take it into account in the further work. The note from the majority of the Defence Committee says this should be done, and I am, of course, serious about that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e809	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e812	The current long-term notification meets with a rapid clarification of the relationship between the development of the organisation of defence top management. This must include, inter alia: are seen in the context of ongoing work on new NATO command organisation. Furthermore, it is provided that the savings potential of the new organisation of the top management of the defence must be realised during the planning period and that the management apparatus must be dimensioned in order to allow for a reduction in operating costs. The Committee is aware that an initial work is under way to look at the reorganisation of the management of the defence. However, the Committee meets with a rapid clarification of these issues in order to achieve the long-term message's purpose and to reduce the operational costs of the defence's top management as the operating costs of the defence are reduced. I would also like to point out that, during the budget debate last year – like now – I called for results. The members of the Committee from the Progress Party and the Right therefore refer to the need for a strict prioritisation of the ‘pointed end’ of the defence and propose a reduction of 110 million. kr on this chapter. Under the heading of the budget. 1725/4725, Joint Institutions under the over-command of the Armed Forces, refers the Committee to the remarks made at the beginning of the budget. S. No 7 for 1998-99 on the need to make the development of operational expenditure more visible in the chapter, with particular emphasis on adult training, welfare services and the Defence Resource Organisation. The Committee has noted that this has not been followed up in its 2000 proposal. Furthermore, the Committee has noted that the system of the self-declaration system in the context of the application for a civil protection obligation may impose an added burden on the Defence and the Defence Obligations Agency. This is not budgeted in the bill, and we assume that this is covered by the Ministry of Justice. Furthermore, I would like to point out that the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right refer to the fact that, with the framework adopted and the proposed arrangements, there is no room for full-time first-time service. This is very worrying. It is therefore strongly emphasised that the primary tasks of the defence must be given priority over actions targeting civil life after the initial service. The members of the Advance Party and the Right of the Committee believe that in order to save 90 million. adult training should be completed over a period of three months. This must also be seen in the light of the fact that today there is very low unemployment. In view of the fact that we see the need for a strict prioritisation of the ‘pointed end of the defence’, the Progress Party and the Right propose a further reduction of this chapter by 30 million. NOK so that the total cut is 120 million. kr. Finally, a few words around the Air Force. The Committee welcomes the continuation of the Mid-Life Update programme on F-16. On the other hand, the Progress Party is concerned that aircraft are constantly being put on the ground because of lack of funding, which should be of even greater concern to the Government and the Workers' Party, with their budget proposals. The progress party is also pleased that the process of purchasing new fighter aircraft seems to go along with the plan, as confirmed by the Council of State today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e831	Last year, the world spent around $6,000 billion on military expenditure. It's drained a thousand pieces for each of the inhabitants. In Norway, we plan to spend almost 5 400 kroner per year. built-in for the Defense. Last Friday it was exactly ten years since Presidents George Bush and Mikhail Gorbachev pressed each other's hands on board the Soviet cruise ship «Maxim Gorkij» and with the marked recording of a decade of military disarmament. The first years after the meeting between the two presidents, the world's military expenditure fell by 4.5 pst. annual before flattening in 1997. During this period, world military expenditure fell by about a third. Today, the world seems to be beginning an upliftment, led by, among other things. The United States, which is planning an increase in military budgets of 37 p.m. the next five years. The Russian warfare in Chechnya also helps to reinforce the impression that the world is about to start a new uplift. The question must be whether Norway wants to be part of this. In recent days, NATO environments have been criticising Norway and our defence. The criticism is not of a new date. We recognize the same arguments that appear, among other things. in the annual budgetary procedures of the Stortinget. The majority in this room have not shown the ability to follow up their own decisions, are opinions that are constantly appearing. I can very much agree with the description of the facts, but at the same time we experience a development that makes our adopted plans difficult to implement. Just this rapid shift in situation images was one of the reasons for the Government to set up a defence policy selection. In particular, migration requirements have been reinforced by decisions taken at the NATO Summit in spring and plans to establish a European security concept with its own EU army of 50,000 men. Our own ability and willingness to convert to Defence is deficient. At this point, one might agree with some of the criticisms of NATO. At the same time, representatives in this room are the foremost ones to focus on rural development when cuts and conversions in the Defence are debated. Norway has come to a point where we have to choose between using the defence for district development or for defence. This is not a question of whether the Eujemo, or any other location, will survive in the future. In future changes in defence, we first have to ask the question: Does the conversion or the location serve the defence and our defense? Serve it at the same time as the local environment, this is good, but not crucial for the choice. If the ability to convert is not more efficient, I am afraid Norway too must increase its military budgets in line with the United States. We can't afford this kind of development. In the future, if we are to have the means to care for our many communities that do not have the Defense as a local job, the share of government spending on Defence does not have to increase beyond the current 5.5 pst. by the national budget corrected. The security of our neighbourhoods bears the mark of uncertainty. We will have to debate Norway's participation in international operations on a later occasion. There should be no doubt at any time about our country's willingness to take our share of the responsibility to reduce uncertainty and to participate and build better conditions for peace between nations in Europe. Improving the military interoperability of NATO countries is necessary and relevant to the tasks of the Alliance. Priority should be given to areas of activity. Our defence, based on duty of protection and mobilization, will obviously face major challenges following the initiatives agreed at the Washington Summit. The defence is not a protected unit in Norway. It must at all times reflect the development of society. A necessary reduction in government expenditure was the reason for the reduction in the long-term notification in the current budget. Furthermore, we must be able to expect that the money allocated to wages will also increase the ability to defend adequately. Conversion must continue to be a continuous process.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e848	The security policy image is complicated. The Russian operation in Chechnya with at least 40,000 men involved says that Russia is a military force that still needs to be included in international policy. After the fall of the Berlin Wall, oppressed conflicts emerged in Europe, based on ethnic, religious and nationalist attitudes. This was most evident in the Balkans. The major political and military changes in Europe in the 1990s resulted in all countries now going through their defence structures, and Norway is, as you know, no exception. The most important thing that has happened at political level is the expansion of NATO, with Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic as new members, further work within the PFP and the renewal of NATO through the new strategic concept. DCI is also important. In this debate, however, I would like to spend some time on what is happening in the European Union in the field of defence policy. For the Workers' Party, it has always been important to contribute to defence policy security through agreements and alliances with friendly countries. That is why the Workers' Party was the driver of NATO membership. New defence and security policy organisations and cooperation structures are now being developed in Europe. Norway cannot sit in the way and let other countries make important premises for our defence and security policy. Yes, what is happening in the EU? The President of the Commission, Romano Prodi, has stated that the next major issue after monetary union is the rapid development of a European military union. This has been supported by Tony Blair, and on the centre/left side of the EU this is supported by Gerhard Schröder from Germany, Lionel Jospin from France and Massimo D"Alema from Italy, who used to be a communist. There is therefore a broad political consensus that, by the end of 2000, the necessary decisions will be taken on a fully operational military unit. The fact that NATO’s former Secretary-General Javier Solana becomes the EU’s first Minister of Defence and Foreign Affairs tells us about the seriousness of the EU’s project. A European defence player is now being created. In my view, this is necessary not least because of the lack of necessary equipment and the development of the European defence industry. Defence in Europe does not have strategic air transport capacity to move heavy material, no long-range missiles and no satisfactory military intelligence capacity. Should Norway stand on the sideline and await other people’s decisions in this process? Non-aligned countries such as Sweden and Finland have a greater influence on the design of the future defence. It is against this background that many of us who are defence friends and voted against the EU in 1994 have now come to the conclusion that it is only through membership that Norway can maintain a credible defence and use the ever-decreasing appropriations for defence in a way that is more consistent with the new European defence structure. Now I'm not so naive that I think the European defence train has gone. But it's slow, while we're at the ticket door and we're wondering if we should buy a ticket. The Helsinki meeting can have a major impact on Norway. Former NATO ambassador Leif Mevik said to the Evening Post on 26 November 1999: ‘Norway may feel marginalised because it becomes the EU and not NATO that ‘becomes the very gravity centre of European defence policy’.’ From the security policy image in Europe to the Home Office. The government's proposal in the budget proposal provides a real reduction of 5 million. kr, which will lead to some reduction in training compared to 1999. When HV is to reach 83,000 men, it is clear that the HV areas do not receive the desired and necessary number of days of exercise. What worries me is that once the crew is called, the material is too poor. It is a fact that the desired equipment is partly as a surplus in other defence sectors, but it is claimed that there is no capacity for redistribution to the Home Office. This is unfortunate, and I assume that this work will be prioritised in 2000. What I also hear from a lot of Homeland soldiers is that there is a lack of communication equipment, night observation equipment and equipment for personal protection. This is important for the purpose of making sense of the annual exercise. Some of these investments will be overcome. 1760, and that's necessary. So a few words about the defense's investments. In this field, there are unfortunately some concerns. It is, as you know, only six months ago the Stortinget dealt with the investment profile we requested in the long-term notification. Today, it can already be established that, as a result of the framework reductions and the increasing pressure on operations, it has not been possible to reach the investment framework to which the investment profile of the defence was attached and to which a broad majority of the Storting joined. The Government therefore already states in its budget proposal that there is a need for a review of the investment profile. This, of course, raises fundamentally questionable issues if both investment profiles and long-term messages become dynamic and rolling and non-managing planning documents. In this work, both the Government and we have a common responsibility. In this respect, I would like to refer to my contribution to the last year's budget debate, in which I just pointed out the importance of long-termity and predictability in defence and security policy. Our security areas and our allies still have a legitimate desire and need to know what can be expected to be in our national defence policy priorities. I didn't intend to talk about local issues in this year's budget debate. However, 'incidentally', three days before the Stortinget was to deal with the budget, the Inspector General of the Army presented proposals for reorganization, a reorganisation of the Army that would essentially reduce or remove the foundations of the Eujemo. There are two things that amaze me with that matter. The first is that the Evjemo is the only garrison that the Stortinget has said positively, and it has also said that the Evjemo will exist as a military force centre for the Army of the South. This is arrogantly overlooked. The second is the press release from the Overcommand on the matter. In the case of other press releases, where reference is always made to St.meld. No 16 for 1992-93 or St.meld. No 22 for 1997-98. Perhaps it would make sense for the defense to also refer to the staging positions and decisions taken in the Stortinget. Now, however, any reduction or abolition of the Army on the Eu ropean continent is not a matter that is up here today, and I assume that reorganisation and structural changes are usually carried out, with a reorganization proposition to the Storting. It is not for the benefit of the Defence or the Storting to make panic-carded changes. Now we have to at least wait for FS2000 to come. For me, the range of defence policy that the Government has set down, with broad political participation, is becoming more and more important. Then we have a basis on which the defence manager's total assessments and the political perspective are included. Let me conclude by reminding you of the Constitution § 25. In this context, the Opinion of the Evening Post of 4 December 1999 on the need for policy-makers to be aware of this becomes quite strange.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e891	We have been constantly cutting defence budgets except when the Right has entered into a budgetary settlement. And then what has that led to? In the evening post on Thursday 2 December 1999 we could read that Norway is getting poor NATO character. ‘NATO is not impressed by Norway’s efforts either at home or outside’, we could record that several NATO diplomats said to the evening post. The change in the defense is too slow. The action in Kosovo was too late. The cut in the defence budgets is also noted. In earlier times, the political left had a favorite charge against defence policy: Norway was the best student in the NATO class. Now we've had a fall on the character scale for the longest time. The army has spent these days with a saving plan of 290 million. kr in annual operating expenditure. And this is just the first step on the way to something that suggests becoming a very comprehensive saving plan. At the same time as the savings plan was presented, the Minister of Defence and the Head of Defence of the NATO meeting in Brussels placed the issue of criticism on behalf of Norway. We're not providing enough for our own defence capabilities, and we're not contributing enough to NATO's joint operations. The Kosovo war has far from strengthened Norway's reputation. Changeover is the key. We need to change from being a mobilization defense adapted to the cold war time to be able to contribute effectively in international operations. Modern wars, such as the Gulf War and the Kosovo War, show that air defence is the spearhead. Kampfly is a prerequisite for asserting sovereignty in its own airspace. Kampfly is also an important contribution to international peace operations. Norwegian participation in such operations requires aeroplanes that can interact with the other forces and units of the NATO Alliance. In fact, the Stortinget has decided to purchase 20 new fighter aircraft with an option of another 10, but these will be replaced by the old F-16 aircraft and the F-16 aircraft that have been lost. So, what about our air defense? Large parts of the air force in Air Force are more in the hangar than they are in the air. We have a total of 58 F-16 planes. The air defense is struggling to keep 30 of them in such a condition that they can be used in the air. Right now, everyone's on the ground. The reason is lack of money, problems in getting new parts and lack of technical staff. Air defence needs 30 F-16 aeroplanes at all times in order for pilots to maintain and improve their skills. After I have been informed, Norwegian pilots are at the minimum level of NATO in terms of flight hours, or do not meet the minimum requirements of NATO. There is also considerable uncertainty about manning. It is expected that the lack of pilots will remain valid until 2003-2004 due to the flight to civil aviation, as well as the technicians. Today, as I said, we have 58 F-16 planes. At the same time, phase F-5 out. The acquisition of the new planes may seem like a net build-up, but it's not. The Air Force has always said that 30 aircraft are required. The level of ambition is that you should be able to have a squadron out in international operations. When you include everything that concerns the aircraft, the rotation, the power production of pilots and technicians, and the entire apparatus to which you are going, the Air Force supply command says that 30 aircraft are minimum. In the meantime, the air defence insertion force is greater than the 338 squadron. The entire F-16 corps must be part of this mission. In St.meld. No 38 for 1998-99 a rotational mechanism is set up on the intervention force to renew each position by two to three contracts. The target is shorter outdoor periods than six months and rotation after two to three months. This is going to cost money. Overall, the international strength of the Air Force will be a costly affair for Norway. It may be time we got a new round on a new long-term plan, that this has to be taken seriously and followed up in the budgets. We have not done so with the existing long-term plan, far from it. With a steady cut year after year and a new jaf as we had in the budgetary agreement between the Labour Party and the Government Parties, it means an unstructured deterioration in defence capabilities and a deterioration in Norway’s position in view of the security policy shift from NATO to the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e917	I feel the urge, after hearing the article from Kjellaug Nakkim and her description of the misery of the situation, to remind her that the budget that the Defense now works after was adopted by a majority together with the Right and Advance Party. Otherwise, a budget debate is very often marked by issues that are not good, but I will start this article with something positive. That's the entry I heard on the Eastern Consignment this morning, with an interview with three military policy winners who were responsible for the MP service in Oslo this weekend. As I understood, only the girls were on guard. We can see that it's moving forward, despite the resistance of individual parties here in the Stortinget in terms of equality. We who are concerned with gender equality and family policy will continue to press for better arrangements. It is therefore nice that one sees results, both in the form that we now have a female colonel, and that concrete goals should be established for the number of female students at the Defence Schools. I would also like to stress the importance of not only thinking about equality in arms but also working with the recruitment of women to the civil positions in defense. It's necessary, when you look at the lodge next door, that there's always a girl coming, even though those sitting there are probably doing a good job. We must have the same objectives in relation to equality in order to recruit immigrants to positions in the Defence Force. It is incredibly important that a defence reflects the population that exists in a country. It surprises me that the Progress Party and the Right have chosen to cut off. 1710, Joint institutions and state enterprises under the Ministry of Defence. According to my concepts, the defence's telecommunications and data service, the Defence Housing Service, the Defence Building Service and the Defence Research Institute are so important support functions for the work carried out by the Department and the Defence, that these are areas that should not be cut. A defence that does not have a research and development support function will be relatively poor. Just to illustrate the importance of research and development, I would like to refer to the budget and to remind you of the tasks and priorities to focus on next year: security and defence policy studies, structural analyses, fundamental scientific, technical and medical studies relevant to defence planning, technology and material development in relation to the material acquisitions of the defence, management and military psychological aspects of modern warfare and military operations under strange conditions, and last but not least the environmental consequences of military activities. Now, it's not that the FFI alone is going to do all of this, but the cooperation between the Defence Research and the Civilian is important. It is well enough to remember that in 2001 we received a new long-term report. In addition, the Ministry on behalf of the Norwegian industry shall negotiate repurchase agreements, both in connection with the frigate purchase and the subsequent purchase of new fighter aircraft. After spending the last week in Paris in the Western Union Parliamentary Assembly with debates on the future of European defence and democratic control, strengthening cooperation between the VEU Parliamentary Assembly and the national parliaments on the definition of a European security and defence policy, moving towards professional forces in Europe, a European crisis and reaction force, and not least the situation in Kosovo and the latest developments in south-east Europe, we understand that the field of security and defence policy studies is particularly important. Enough about this chapter in the budget, but, as I said, I am greatly surprised that the Progress Party and the Right are proposing cuts in such an important chapter. As the case rapporteur for the rescue helicopter service chapter, I would like to stress that I am now starting to become impatient with regard to the notified notification. I know that the proper state council is not present, but I would like to say that it is urgent to have a proper review of the rescue helicopter service. NOW 1997: 3 About the rescue helicopter service was handed over to the Ministry of Justice on 12 December 1996. It's been four years since this. In dealing with the last bids, we have asked again and again: When is the message coming? Our remarks in this budget position were written before the accident of the 'Sleipner', and with the experience gained in that tragedy, an assessment of the whole case must be made. I ask that the Council of State Løwer give feedback to the Council of State Dørum that we and others with us now begin to become quite impatient about the rescue helicopter service. The NOU that was presented in its time is, in my view, a good basis for a big message, and it should not be a problem to get it out, unless there is a debate on which departments should be responsible, which create problems for the ministry. I want to say that more and more of us are waiting with excitement. We hope it comes, as promised, no later than spring 2000. So a few words about the Air Force, which is probably also in place. We're going to meet exciting times, and it's probably enough to remind you that we're going to go to the acquisition of new fighter planes, as the council also mentioned in its article. The last F-5 aeroplanes shall be put on the ground soon and the Stortinget will be submitted to a programme or project concerning new unit helicopters. It's positive, but we're also struggling with problems. As I understand it, our Lynx helicopters have now been on the ground for a few days with problems. All the F-16 planes are currently on the ground, and as far as I understand, they are now repaired, and they have found a solution to the problem. Worse, we also have problems with our Hercules transport aircraft. These are planes that we have a strong need for, and it would have been desirable that we were in a different situation with regard to these planes. A lifetime extension to 2010 is not long, and we're pushing the problems ahead. At the same time, I see that the economy is not going to make purchases of new aircraft, and that these are a priority. So over to some other aircraft, namely those in a hangar on the Gardermo. I won't say much about that case, which concerns the Defence Air Force Air Force Collection. However, it is unusual that the Stortinget refers to a matter in the budgetary position that is not mentioned in the budget. However, a unanimous committee has considered that resolving the problems that have arisen in connection with the flight collection is so important that through a remark in the budget setting, we have asked the ministry to work out a proposal for a solution. I would also like to stress that this is not a criticism of the department – they have done their job. On the contrary, we trust that the department will contribute to solving the problems that have now arisen in connection with the Gardermoen flight collection. Since there is a little time left for my speaking time, I want to do something unusual. I would like to comment on one of the information matters in the budget. It is not often that we do so, but an information case relating to the storage and securing of the defence weapon in private homes is mentioned. I think it is very good that we have now started a constructive work on this, and that the defense, along with Oslo and Follo police districts, is working to secure the weapons that people from Homeland initially have at home. I also hope that the legal basis for being able to exempt people from professional secrecy is actively employed, and that the defense can get information as early as possible about people who are not fit to keep weapons and ammunition in their homes. I wish the Council of State, and also the Council of State of the Ministry of Justice, good luck with the important work that the Stortinget has been working on in many contexts in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e955	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e958	In Norway, there has been a broad consensus on security policy in the last 50 years, because the NATO alliance has given the country the security we need. The left has always supported this policy. Today, NATO is changing. The alliance no longer sees the north as one of the most important areas of activity to maintain peace. The threat picture is much more complex than before, as reflected in NATO's new strategy. At the same time, we feel that the European countries want to take greater responsibility for security in our region, including the United States and Japan. by integrating the Western Union into the new defence structure of the EU. Norway is facing a choice: do we want to participate in the development that is taking place in Europe, or do we need to build up our own defence without being absolutely sure of how we have our alliance partners in our priorities? The left sees it as very important that the government is working to ensure Norway the same influence we have had in relation to the WEU, in the new bodies that we see the contours of, as I understand the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs are working intensively to get through to. For the Left, it is important to ensure that Norway participates in planning and implementation of any action and does not only take a decision on participation when all is resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e966	The training of military personnel is about the security of the soldiers. If you haven't come to realize that it's the soldiers' security that's premises number. 1 to run military exercises, it's sad. Exercises of military crews are not meant to be an experience offer in God's free nature. Otherwise, I maintain that the message from the government's spokesmen is that it is almost impossible to take seriously what is in the position to follow up the budget. The message to the Workers' Party must be very clear: we tricked them there. In the field of shooting and drill, we are in a similar situation. As late as March, the bulk of the population, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right, was given a decision on shooting and practice fields. We were two deposit representatives from Hedmark who were involved in this – taking 250,000 m2 of pagan nature to the training area of the Army. It wasn't an easy decision for any of us, but we meant – precisely in order to be able to do the job that we're doing, for example. in international operations and in the defence of our own country and again in the interests of the security of the soldiers – that this was undeniably necessary. The working party was in on it in March, and the government went a little wobbly, but however, against it. And it's probably nothing but simple logic to assume that when the government made its $80 million budget proposal. kr to the field of fire and drill, they represented 80 million. kr the minimum amount with which the Government thought it was possible to get to Stortinget in order not to tread the size of the toes. Once again, I would like to congratulate the government parties with excellent negotiating tactics in relation to the Workers' Party, which got the Workers' Party, of all, to be involved in this reduction, which seriously jeopardises the propulsion of the shooting field. And then we'll see, then, if it's once again so that the comment that the government parties and the Workers' Party have with reference to the exercise field, that progress should be maintained, has the same validity as the comment on the size of the defence budget. The question of the Workers' Party will be whether that is what cynicism is in it. Because seriously, this is going to go against the landowners in the opposite direction. The money was set aside for the drive forward in high gear, and that the landowners would be compensated, preferably in the form of a make change. Now there is a de facto bonding of the area without money being put at the disposal. It takes away the lifeblood of the Åmot community, it pushes the replacement of the landowners in front of it, and it makes the planning of the field by the Defence and Army more uncertain than it would have had to be.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e975	The defence appropriations cannot be exempted from all other appropriations in society. I now record that the majority say that they should increase the defence appropriations over the next two years to compensate for reaching the level of the long-term message. And then is a timely question: At the expense of what? Is it so that there's school that's going to sting this time? It might be timely to ask the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties about it. Is it the ill-appointed local economy that's going to swindle again? One could also be tempted to ask the right-hand side: if the right-hand side actually believes that these investments in defence are so important, will they not then consider increased taxes in order to be able to finance this? If they cannot answer yes to that question, I perceive that this is not important enough for us to prioritize like this. It would have been right if we had the concept and the structural changes in place, because then we would have been able to see if we had the funding in order before we promised that all the investments would be put in place. For structural changes, there has to be a reduction in defence – there has to be less physical, fewer, and there has to be a reduction in operating costs, so that the investment deemed necessary finds its funding there. Then I think it is inconsequential that the most structurally independent investment, namely the field of fire, is also attempted to be locked down. In this context, I have a specific question for the Workers' Party: If the structural changes in the Defence, especially within the Army, are such that the volume and use of the firing range will change significantly, does the Workers' Party believe that it is correct that the case is fully reopened in the Stortinget? The working party has, in its leadership, put quite strict limits on both the area and the use to give its position a skin of the environment. So finally, a question that is mentioned in the budget position and in the proposition, namely Nordic security cooperation, which I believe has been completely lost in the debate. The proposition states that the objective of Nordic cooperation is ‘to establish a common Nordic strength unit up to Brigade size’. This refers in particular to peacekeeping and peace-building forces – precisely what we are talking about now – with the need for exercises and collaborations. Is this just a paper exercise and a way to talk about which to use in festive context, or does the government mean this? And is it such that this project, as the rumors went after the Nordic Council meeting in Stockholm this autumn, has actually been iced up, that it has not been intended to be implemented, and that efforts are being made to use NATO and European systems to fulfil these functions? It requires an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e984	At the bottom of the debate, there are only a few points: lastly, I would just like to refer to our primary draft budget, which shows how we have fit into the long-term message when it comes to defence, and in conjunction with everything else. There's one thing that's been up a little bit, and I don't think it's completely settled in the debate, and it has to do with the first-time service. How long it will be will always be subject to debate and adjustments, as it has been several times in the 1990s. What's terribly unfortunate is when you take this into your annual budgets. It started with the government last year, and it keeps going on this year. It will be hopeless for the Defense to plan and operate properly if they are to have their service time set just up for Christmas. It says itself. What I think is a little unfortunate now is that those who are now cutting five weeks on quota 08-2000, pretending that there are no consequences for the length. So next year they're going to call in in September instead of beginning in August. They should normally be completed in June. Then everyone takes a vacation and arranges your and your daughter of practical matters in July, and then they take in a new quota in August. If they're going to postpone this five weeks and add five weeks later, who's going to do the exercise in July next year? And what are they going to be in when there's also a new quota coming in in August? This doesn't hang together, so I think it's almost on the verge of being dishonest to pretend that one can cut five weeks in advance without having consequences for the total length. So to something that hasn't been discussed, but that's a lot lower in what's going to happen in the future: I fully understand that the head of defense is pretty close to being told about the total lack of consistency between goals and means that the Storting provides year after year, and that it becomes very messy and tumultuous for the one who's going to run this. Now he's tried to start with the money. One is going to see what defense we can get for 25 billion dollars, and then we're going to add up to it. I think that's a totally unsustainable way of driving. I understand that he does it in desperation, but it is totally unsustainable. First of all, he has no guarantee that the Stortinget will not be able to reach the year after with NOK 24,5 billion and then NOK 24 billion – and then we are out in exactly the same mess. Secondly, there must be the tasks here, like other places that need to be taken into account, an assessment of the security policy situation: what kind of defence do we need in time? What other tasks is the defence being imposed when it concerns maritime surveillance, etc.? That must be the basis, and then we have to decide what we want, and pay for it. That's the only right way. I just want to say on the Right's behalf that this is the line that we're going to put on. We don't go in to assume a random amount of heads and see what kind of defense you get for that money there. It's completely reprehensible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e993	I want to comment on two-three things. Let me first take the criticism from NATO, to which reference is made, and where the chairman of the Defence Committee has raised himself very much above my comment. I want to nuance the picture a little bit, because there are actually more shades than what is added to my little comment in the evening post. It is praise to Norway for our participation in international operations. We have a weakness because we have a security system, that we don't get out quickly enough and are operational. We can do something about that. The implementation of the conversion of defence that we're in, says NATO has to increase in pace and scope. We are commended because we have already included DCI in our defence planning as an important criterion, and Norway is not in any particular position with regard to this lack of achievement of strength targets. It's the way that the NATO countries together only meet 50 pst. of its strength objectives, so there is nothing special for Norway. But we can get better, and that's what I said, and that's where I think the representative Røssjorde and I actually agree. It requires that we take some political decisions in terms of structure that are quite demanding, and for that, political will is needed both in government and in this Chamber. So I want to comment a little bit on this with the planes, which are commented on by a lot of speakers. There is not necessarily a lack of money that makes them stand on the ground, but there are accidents and errors that will be corrected both in the case of F-16 – they are fully operational, but they have been grounded because they may be faulty – and in the case of the Lynx helicopters. There was already one in place last week, and the other will be operational within two weeks. Then I would like to make a little comment to the representative Karin Andersen, who asked for Nordic cooperation. The Nordic Brigade remains a target, but in today’s situation, all Nordic countries are so under so much pressure with regard to resources as a result of participation in Kosovo and Bosnia that it is currently not possible to meet that target. But we still have it as a goal, and we have very good experience from the Nordic-Polish Brigade in Bosnia to build on. In addition to the Nordic countries, bilateral relations are developing, for example: between Norway and Sweden, in terms of practice and training — i.e. between a NATO country and a non-NATO country. So there's a lot going on at the Nordic level.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e1002	The council suggested that I should have been very excited about statements in the evening post. The council may not have heard me in an uproared state. What the Council of State did through its intervention in relation to that criticism from NATO, has then helped to bring a little better balance in this, because as it appeared in the evening post, it was obviously very much that could be wrong. Now, I guess that's the way the Council of State was about, that it can be about inertia from the Norwegian side. If that's what was the basis, I get it very well. But then it has to be the same – and there has not been a lack of signals about arranging contract systems – that you don't have to sit down and sign contracts about when you're going to sail. The last example – and it is critical, but it goes on the system more than anything else – concerns a mine hunting vessel that was ordered to return to Kai because they had no contracts. This is something that was pointed out from the Progress Party when we created the Telemark battalion, because it was like that from hand to mouth. There has been no lack of warnings, and there has not been a lack of reminders to fix this, for I and my party have repeated this time after time. So there are some indications in the communication we are going to deal with regarding international forces that it has been taken over, but in the context of any inertia in response to the operation in Kosovo, also at the time when it was obvious that it began to build up to something that could require Norwegian action, it was clearly stated in appropriate places that it was now possible to get the contract in order, so that we could travel and do a job if we had a challenge. Otherwise, I would like to point out that the CFE agreement as it is designed, for our part now is not satisfactory. In many ways, I feel that it is a positive contribution that the CFE agreement is there, and it has also been expressed by the committee, with varying majority and minorities, but it is hardly such that it satisfies the defence needs. And so it's remarkable that you've made it so that we can't take back the vehicles that we're using and will use in international operations. This suggests that when the current Prime Minister was Minister for Foreign Affairs, he obviously did not understand what Norway’s needs would be in the future, and that is why we are struggling with this now. And as you often deal with Turkey policy here in the country, I'm not sure that the Turks are going to be so very helpful in getting this done. But I hope that those who are good allies see that it may be a need. Unfortunately, it is also that we cannot trust the Russians if we make agreements, because already in Chechnya one has now exceeded the flank number by 700 wagons.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e1011	A short comment just to clarify one thing: it's from the Right created the impression that the Christian People's Party and its spokeswoman do not represent the majority comment in the vote. Let me say that now: we in the Christian People's Party will work to reach the budgetary framework of the long-term message in line with the remarks in the budget position. My point is – and I stand for it – that we should work towards achieving the long-term message resource level, but it is equally important to stabilise and reduce operating costs. This was an attempt to clarify what we in the Christian People's Party mean.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e1018	A few questions have been asked directly to the Workers' Party, both linked to the Eastern Region. Karin Andersen asked: What if the military analyses were to show that the decision was wrong, or that the defense no longer needs the field? We went into these issues carefully in the context of the defence committee's consideration of this, and not least we went into this very carefully in the Workers' Party, which was decisive for the majority in this matter. We were convinced – not because we wanted to spend money on something that was unnecessary – that the defense's own argument, which went on and goes on to say that the slimmer country defense is going to be, is the greater the need for optimal training opportunities with advanced equipment in given formations over certain areas, was a argument that kept water. I would believe that that argument is reinforced by further slimming of the defense, and not the opposite. Therefore, it is a completely theoretical example that the defense should suddenly come to the opposite conclusion. But if they do, we won't throw money at anything the defense doesn't want. Spookyly said: Then the opposite happens, then the Defense is imposed a fine that is at least equal to the sums that have been granted. For this, you can't plan for such important issues. We must then take a closer look at the decision-making process itself and the professional characteristics of those who manage the expertise. I don't think that's the situation, but it would be a natural reaction from the Storting in such a case. When it comes to the question of the change in husbandry, sale and purchase and appropriations, it is my absolute impression that one initially had a relatively liberal pot for the acquisition of properties, as part of makeshifts, in order to avoid claims for compensation. I don't think that the cut that's there needs to mean something for the progress of the project itself, but the purchase and sales operations and the makeshifts will be dragged out something in time, which in itself is not an impossibility when one knows that this is a project that goes over quite many years. Nor is it certain that, in sum, this will be somewhat cheaper for the Defense, for some of the benefits of a liberal sum next year would be that one could then go to and buy property at times that market economy might be preferable. But I don't think those who want compensation, or who are subject to purchase and sales processes, come out somewhat worse than before. It might as well turn the opposite way. The technical progress of the project is absolutely in line with the plan. There is no delay to talk about, nor can the majority comment be read in any way in that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e1027	Until the last Bjørn Tore Godal said, I just want to replicate that those who obviously have to pay the bill if you don't get on with this matter, in which case they will be the landowners. One of the worrying things is that here you have a larger project in a Norwegian community that the Stortinget is simply exposed to. I don't think we should treat landowners in Building Norway in the way that, among other things. The Centre Party and the Working Party here are set to do. I think it's search. So until I took the floor: Dagrun Eriksen now says that she is at the majority point, which must mean that what she has said earlier from the Christian People's Party, namely that it is enough money, yet it is not right. It was good that it wasn't, but that means that it's angled back and forth, so we're used to it from the center government. The interesting question is, what do you mean, ‘work for’? It creates the impression that there is something other than the Storting that grants. But it's just the Storting that grants, it's actually just the majority that Dagrun Eriksen is a part of, that grants. Therefore, there is nothing to say that you should ‘work for’ it. Either you do it, or you don't. Then the question is, does the population now have a backbone to do what they say they should do, or is it different from the size that grants?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e1036	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 906]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e1050	This proposition takes account of changes in the strength structure of the defence and involves the phasing out of materials and the closure of related departments in order to reduce operating costs and release resources. The proposition can be seen in many ways as a follow-up to St.meld. No 22nd@item: The proposal concerns the following proposals: phase-out of F-5 fighter aircraft and closure of divisions associated with the F-5 phase-out of eight STORM missile torpedo boat phase-out of two KOBBEN submarines Furthermore, the proposition contains two briefings: mobilisation storage of all cannon air protection systems L-70 and stopping strength production to L-70allierte training centres As mentioned in St.prp. No 1 last year, it was assumed that the F-5 fighter aircraft would be taken out of the peacekeeping operation and that the 336 quadron would be shut down as a result of this. The Committee has noted that the Air Force does not comply with NATO requirements with regard to the number of hours spent flying. In the opinion of the Committee, phase-out of F-5 fighter aircraft will release personnel and the economy, which will help to remedy this situation. The Committee therefore agrees that F-5 fighter aircraft are being taken out and that the 336 quadrant is being decommissioned by 1 July 2000. Sea defence missile torpedo boats of the STORM class have been operating in approximately 35 years. According to the current long-term notification, the Committee agrees that the remaining eight STORM class missile torpedo boats will be phased out by 31 December 1999. Again as a follow-up to the current long-term notification and to contribute to the saving of operating costs, the Committee agrees that two KOBEN classes of submarines will be phased out by 31 December 1999. The Ministry promotes to the Committee in this proposal as an orientation for the implementation of mobilisation storage and the cessation of the production of strength of all cannon air protection systems L-70. However, the Progress Party has noted that the Air Force today has no standing air protection during peacetime. The progress team will point out that the L-70 system has recently undergone an MLU program at a price of nearly DKK 1 billion, and that the system today appears to be a very advanced solution to aircraft and to crashed weapons and robots delivered from aircraft, and at the moment, the only weapon system in the Defense is with this capacity. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party have noticed that from 1 August this year, the end of the strength production of crews was ordered. However, we are very concerned that such measures have been implemented without the formal consent of the Storting. The members of the Committee are also concerned about the lack of storage capacity and the quality of this. Similarly, as a briefing matter, the Åsegarden, Steinkjersan and Voss garrison are assigned the function of allied training centres, and the Committee agrees. Finally, on behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to put forward the proposal contained on page 5 of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e1086	Per Ove Width has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e1089	I'm going to spend very little time. I just want to refer to Innst. S. No 38 and the comments of the Christian People's Party are on it. So I would like to point out a little thing that the Progress Party has written about the L-70 system in its comment. They write that this is ‘the only weapon system in the Defense that has a real ability to control such modern weapon systems’ from the ground. That's a theoretical possibility. In one second, you're going to wear yourself to both aim in and fire, and that's what I call a theoretical possibility. A trifle in context, but we join the majority remarks, in which the Christian People's Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e1099	Only quite short: We're some of the suggestions in the proposition, but I'd like to say something in connection with the information case about L-70. Sometimes we get messages right to the Storting that there have been changes in essential parts of the war structure without us being informed in advance. I don't like that. We spend quite a lot of money on the war structure. That's what's the central element, the main element of the defense, and when we're going to make changes here, we need to be informed in advance and we don't have to get this information in retrospect. When it comes to the specific matter, we in the Right take note of what has happened, but we ask that such matters in the future be brought before us in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e1108	I don't think we should go into a discussion about capacity related to the L-70 system and the FCS 2000. Then I think it would be boring for some others here. But I allow myself to be somewhat critical of the description of the representative Eriksen's handling of incoming targets. But we can take that to a suitable place afterwards. I think there will be a need to moderate quite strongly what was said. Let's do it. I take the word to say some words attached to allied training centres. My colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Width, has expressed what we think about the L-70 deposition, so as I said, I'm going to use a few words in gyms. Providing conditions for allied forces wishing to practise in Norway has been and will, hopefully, continue to be important. It's been quite many years since the Progress Party took this up – I think it was in 1992 that we took this up and asked for something to be done to provide a solution for allies, so that it was seen as attractive to practice in Norway, knowing that the training budgets, the training budgets, also our allies went down. Providing expensive solutions does not seem to be particularly relevant. It is regrettable, in my opinion, that it has taken so long to decide something that should be as simple as this. And I wouldn't be the least surprised if we got up in such a situation that when it comes to getting the centres covered with activity from allies, that time might be partly over. I hope that it is possible to develop this in such a way that our allies are satisfied to live there and train from there. Then, of course, it is also important that this is done in places where there are practice and shooting opportunities, so that you do not waste time, because it has been and will still be an important piece to get the effect of what a do. So now proposals have been made on Åsegarden, Steinkjersannan and Voss garrison as allied training centres. I hope that we have now also talked carefully with our allies to define their needs, so that we can now offer both the right place in the country to do this and the right place to make some of the necessary investment solutions, because we are now going to spend the same amount of time getting infrastructure in place in the selected areas that we have used to manage to get these three names – which appeared a long time ago, in my opinion – it is all reasonably pointless and a flag wave that comes too late. So I allow myself to ask the Council of State what signals you have received from allies in terms of their needs. I hope that both the Council of State and the leadership of the Defence Department will focus on this, so that this makes sense to our allies. It is obvious that practice in Norway has gradually become a priority because, overall, there is not enough resources. And if we're going to be able to do something more than what is obviously possible through the NATO system, we have to do it bilaterally or multilaterally interesting to practice here. So the question goes to the Council of State: have we received signals, and will the Council of State make sure that what we are doing is in line with the wishes of our allies?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e1117	In the proposal, the Stortinget is briefed that the department has decided to stop the production of the air defence cannon-air protection system L-70, and the associated fire mains system. This implies that the materials previously used for the production of strength are placed on the mobilization status and long-term storage, as is the case with other L-70 materials in the structure. Arm systems are maintained in the war structure and competence is maintained through the establishment of a training centre for L-70. I am pleased that the Committee has joined the Government's proposal to phase out the structure, and that the majority of the Committee takes note of the implementation of the mobilization of all cannon air protection systems L-70 and stop producing strength for this system. I am also pleased that the defence's strengthened efforts to facilitate even better for allied training and training centres in Norway have been so strongly endorsed – and to the representative Røsjord's last question: of course, the organisation of allied training centres in these three military garrisons should be worked to make it meaningful for our allies to participate in these centres, and that the offers organised there must, of course, be so attractive in all possible ways that they meet and want to be there. Of course, we're dealing with this bilaterally with NATO countries, so this is not going to be an offer that's hanging in the loose air. I can assure you that we will avoid that. Then I want to say a little about what is in the setting of testing NSM and F-5. In order to achieve the most rational solution for the defence as a whole, the relationship between the necessary testing of new sea target missiles and the phase-out of F-5 will be closely followed. The defence chief command has been given the task of evaluating these matters further quickly, both as regards the need to realise a proven savings potential in phase-out of F-5, the closure of departments and elements associated with this aeroplane and the need to perform the best and least costly testing of NSM. Including alternatives to F-5 for use in the short and especially longer term practical testing of marine target missiles will be considered. Based on clarification of needs and consequences, a solution will be developed to meet both the need for conversion and the quality of the development of a new maritime target missile.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e1128	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e1131	The Councils of State were most satisfied with the management of the proposals by the Storting and the Committee, which are made through the Indst. S. No Thirty-eight. I just want to ask a question: is the Council of State also satisfied that the Stortinget is presented with a case in which the execution of the training of personnel at L-70 is actually completed before the Stortinget has taken its decision in principle? Is the Council of State satisfied with the state of things, with the order?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e1138	Thus, the Ministry's assessment is that the mobilization storage of all L-70 materials and the cessation of power generation do not involve any change in the air protection structure, and the three weapon systems included in the structure, cannon-air protection L-70 and rocket systems RB 70 and NASAMS are retained in the war arrangements. The mobilisation status of all departments equipped with cannon-air protection L-70 is not considered to have decisive operational implications in relation to the air defence mission or to the future operational concept. It is on this basis that the ministry has not considered it to be something formal that prevents us from presenting this as a briefing matter, and not as a Roman number decision under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e1145	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 915]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e1161	We're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e1167	During the debate, Mr Røsjorde put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. We vote first on the proposal and then on the vote. The proposal of the Progress Party and the Right reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-12-06.ana.ud666e4886	During the debate, Per Ove Width put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. We vote first on the proposal and then on the vote. The proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘The mobile storage of all cannon air protection systems L-70 and the stopping of power production until L-70 are not implemented.’
