ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e24	Norway is a nation that is totally dependent on natural resources and the harvesting of these resources in a sustainable way. Today we have an economy that is an oil economy, plus mining, hydropower. But fisheries are the largest export industry for oil. It is the basic industry No. 1, and when oil resources end, it is the largest industry in Norway. There are some who have found that fisheries could be the largest industry when oil disappears, but that has been the case all along. It said to read in today's business. We are totally dependent on running resource management in a sustainable way. Then it is also equally clear that the management of marine mammals and whales is involved in the management process. Norway shall participate in an international conference of CITES in Kenya in March. CITES is a conference on international trade in endangered species, flora and fauna. There, the protest industry has free play. Fish are on the agenda of CITES. Fish shall be included in the list of endangered species. Either the President believes it or not, it is actually one of the most important issues raised at this international conference! The coastal population in Norway depends on the management of resources as I have just outlined. We have a population such as is made up of young people who today attend school until they are about 20 years old. When I grew up, and when most of those sitting in this room grew up, they learned from their parents and the generations that were before us. Today, the teachers are going to teach our children. What do teachers today learn about basic industries such as fisheries and agriculture, such as aquaculture, shipping, well-boating? Zero! None of the world's things do they learn in the teachers' colleges today about these basic industries. How, then, should we expect our children to see what we are doing in the districts? Here, there has to be a radical conversion of the curriculum for the teachers' higher education institutions. I have given talks on several occasions about this, and that is why I am taking it up today. I made a proposal a few days ago that fishing activities which are being closed under the EEA Directives must be provided with funds so that they can maintain their activity. So you could say this is old fast that's going away. But who's going to decide what's going to go away? Is it the ESA or the Control Agency, or is it the politicians that are gathered in this Chamber? That's the big question. Although a fishing farm is not 2.50 m above the roof, it must be a useful use in the name of the gentleman if it is only 2.20 m! But there is a requirement that you have to tear it down and set it up again. Coastal fleets have always been most important for the coastal population and for employment. Today, there are four national plagues that are raging North Norway. It is seagoing autoline boats that are in the flakes and fish in the herring rig for the north landing. The northerners have been hanged for not getting to sea – they have been in trouble. Now there are large seagoing autoline boats that are located up in the herring rig and fish where the jacks were supposed to be, but they are not allowed to be at sea. That's one thing the Minister of Fisheries could have done something about, but he hasn't done anything about it. We have another plague called royal crab, and we have seals and predators. The management of these pests is out of balance. Wolves, yerves and yerves have been debated many times. It is clear from the report of predators that here are the things that must be done with this Stortinget. We are now debating wolf because Fido is in danger in the Castle Park, in East Marka and in Nordmarka. But the sheep farmer in Grattangen who has eaten up half his lambs from you in the harvest is no longer mentioned. This is something the Storting must take seriously. I have a feeling that if not these things I have taken up are taken seriously, I have reason to say that there is a depopulation policy – a centralisation that is unparalleled and that is not debated. Ole Brumm's policy that you can have sheep, wolf, yerv and yerv in layers in the same enclosure is not correct. It was only in the world of Phantom that lambs and lions could lie next to each other. Now the rulers of this country must wake up! I have registered that the Central Party has agreed that the MAI agreement that was stopped internationally is now to be incorporated into the WTO negotiations. In other words, the agreement is to be put in place backwards. Those in this room who believe that this agreement should be incorporated to protect Norwegian investment are wrong. Norway is open to purchase. Although we have nearly 400 billion dollars on the oil fund, it's too small to count compared to those who really have billions of dollars and can buy up. As I said at the outset, it's the natural resources that are important, because that's where the values lie. It is the struggle for food, who should control the food, who should control the clean food – the food that comes from the sea – that is what it is all about. I have a heart attack. The Government has submitted a national transport plan. No money has yet been found to continue Lofast, and far from improving the «way» E6 northwards. The criticism I'm travelling here, I'd like to travel. Finally, there is a problem I would like to address. At the beginning of the century, the Government says that it will work «for a social development characterized by a solid foundation of value rooted in our national and Christian cultural heritage». Section 2 of the Constitution states: «The Evangelical Lutheran religion remains the public religion of the State.» After registering in the state of the kingdom that Muslim girls are not allowed to marry Christian men, I would say that we have brought the debate on Christians and Muslims into conflict in this country. If this is a problem, we have to discuss the problem. We have to get to the bottom of what the problem is, and we have to take this issue up for debate. In fact, a Muslim girl will never be allowed to marry a Christian man, while we allow Christian girls to marry Muslims. That's the problem. I don't want to talk about it. My question will then be: How long does it take for the Constitution § 2 to be put under pressure? We must dry up to take this debate. And I'd like to refer to the last episode of the Common Era: ‘The Norwegian Church shall have the freedom and resources to be a confessing, dissident and diaconally working people’s church. Religious communities outside the Norwegian Church shall be given good working conditions.» The census ends with these elements. We have to take the debate!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e60	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e63	The representative, Steinar Bastesen, must be commended for often speaking the cause of fishermen and the coast from this pulpit. Indeed, as he himself stresses, the fisheries and aquaculture industry is the main basis for employment and housing along large coastal areas. The industry has evolved into one of the largest export industries in the country – DKK 28 billion in export value in 1998, and it is increasing for 1999. The United Nations Food Organisation stated that Norway was the world’s largest exporter of seafood in 1997. The profitability of the fishing and aquaculture industries is an important prerequisite both for ensuring jobs and housing along the coast and also for the country’s overall economy. Then, of course, the fisherman at sea is important. But attention must also be paid to the industry on land. Today, industry is already dependent on importing raw materials, and there is reason to expect that access to supplies, especially from the Russian fleet, will be reduced in the years to come. For a long time, there has been an express desire from the fishing industry to gain greater control over deliveries. But here we know that the law of participants sets out clear and, at my discretion, reasonable limits. You have to be a fisherman yourself to be able to own more than 50 pst. in a fishing boat. It is fair and sensible, from a coastal point of view. However, I would like to ask the following questions to the representative Steinar Bastesen: How are we going to ensure, with scarce resources, that the fishing industry gets predictable supplies, so that we can secure the jobs on land, continue to achieve the objective of higher processing rates and continue to have high export value on Norwegian fish?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e76	The Deltakers Act sets clear limits on who should be allowed to own fishing vessels and not. It is very important that we have a law that regulates whether the fleet should be fishing or controlled by foreign companies over the stock exchange. The most important thing about the law of participants is that it says that the fleet should be in local ownership. I have a good friend who said that it went uphill in wooden shoes and bus wool and downhill in blues and lacquer shoes. It should illustrate this with self-esteem, that you go in threshers and busshers when you have bad times. I'm afraid the stock exchange isn't as busy. One can take both downs and ups when a driver is private. So how to secure raw materials and further processing. First, you have to know what you're doing. You have to have an overview of the resources, you have to know what is the natural mortality, as I said in my post, the taxation of resources by marine mammals. Secondly, it is necessary to regulate fisheries to the maximum benefit of what can be extracted — as much as possible safe stock estimate. Thirdly, you have to have a fleet that is capable of bringing catch on land to those who are going to process it as much as possible. With regard to further processing and high-level processing, there have been some difficulties for several reasons. The customs barriers are one thing, the other is that if we are going to compete on the finished product market in Europe with companies already established in the market, we are going to face competition from the companies that are already there, and we have expensive loans to pay off our new fishing practices. This is a double edged sword.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e83	The representative of Bastisen addressed many important areas, including: the fishing industry, resource management and game management. It is part of the areas that are important to strengthen the settlement throughout the country. Then Bastesen must be happy that we have a government that is also concerned with these questions, and that wants to bet on District Norway to reverse the movement flow. We know that commodity-based value creation is taking place in the districts, and it is therefore important that people live there who can contribute to the creation of value. The government has also proposed a number of measures in both regional, district and fisheries policy to bring about positive developments. Another thing that is important in addition to all the good measures is the attitudes, that we have a positive attitude that it is good to live in the districts, and that it is good to live in the whole of our long-term country. I think that a black paint of the situation out in District Norway just will make it harder and less motivating for the youth to come back. I think it's important to have a positive attitude if we're going to be able to reverse the shift rate. It is important that we bet within the fisheries sector, for which the Minister for Fisheries has agreed, among other things. research and a new research vessel to which funds have been allocated. This may include, inter alia: be involved in strengthening the fishing industry. As Bastisen was also involved, recruitment to the fishing profession is important to get young people in the data age to choose that industry. And then I want to ask the Bastisen what he thinks is most important in order for us to be able to reverse the movement flow and get to this bet. Will he support the Government that research and recruitment are the main priorities of the fisheries industry in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e94	I have no problem supporting Rita Roaldsen's reasoning. That's why I also took into account in my main post the importance of young people being trained in what's going on in the village and in the area they live in. As I said initially, we learned this from our parents. Today the kids go to school until they are about 20 years old, and then they have to learn it at school. But when the teachers don't know anything about this, they can't teach our kids anything about it either. Then it's IT, and then it's going to be going to the city to go to school. It starts already in school, so training for teachers needs to be changed. It takes time to start teaching those who are in the 7th or 8th grade positive and believing in the village, but you have to start a place. I have registered that the Center Party has outsourced positive agents, and that's all right. I walk around as a living positive agent, because I never complain that living in the village is broken. I'd like to take on that problem, I'll do it for free. I fully understand and support what the Government has done in this way. I am less pleased with the service statements that you will receive when submitting a public application. If you want an empty building permit or you want a matter decided in public, you get a statement that says this is to be done, and there is to be quality above it. But you cannot resolve the matter with such a statement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e101	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e104	I record the beginning of the reign of the throne that it will work for an innovative, solidarity and security Norway. What is contained in the term ‘innovative’ is not easy to say, perhaps this concept has been replaced by the Norwegian House, which the government of Jagland would build in its time. A safer Norway is in everyone's interest and should be a natural programme statement from any government. But one can then ask the question, What is security? The concept is comprehensive. It's going on economic security and it's coming out. It includes a sound safety net for the person who does not have or can not be provided with his own work. Security is also a matter of freedom for the individual, the smaller state and the more self-determination. Security has something to do with the absence of crime. But perhaps the most important safety factor in relation to individuals is having a good and adequate health care system, so that one can be safe to get help when needed, in childhood, in adulthood and not least in old age. In this last field, we have far from being safe in Norway today. The government states the following in the census: ‘The government will initiate a wide-ranging discussion of the value base of healthcare.’ I'm asking myself what's in this program formulation. In the Christian cultural heritage, which is also claimed by this government, it must be that the prevention and treatment of disease, the care and care of the elderly sick and the organisation of the living conditions of the disabled should be a natural priority. The Progress Party believes that health and care are a societal task to be given priority over all other societal tasks. So far is the Progress Party in this hall alone about such a value attitude. That no more funds can be allocated to the health and care services when the budget shows a surplus of over 70 billion kroner, is for me, a normal human being, a cross of thought of the big ones. It is a crossroads that with this surplus we maintain health and care cows, people who are in line waiting to get rid of pain and suffering and are waiting for a better quality of life. The party of progress was attacked by the rest of the political environment, including the government parties, during the last election campaign for poor human vision, lack of respect for human dignity and what was worse. Then it must be allowed to ask the question to the Government and the other parties in this room: What human view and what human dignity is taken into account on their part when such extensive unworthy conditions have recently been revealed in our care for the elderly? I also allow myself to ask what view of human beings is underlying the fact that taxes on sickness, in budgetary terms called prowess, have increased by over 30 pst in the last three years. The percentages for many today are so high that vital drugs cannot be purchased, and you cannot pay for necessary health and care services. In this state budget, the party to the progress would say no to any increase in its proportions and would await the announced investigation into the excesses in general, aimed at protecting large consumers of healthcare. It is good that the retirement plan adopted by the Stortinget is on track, but I have pointed out and repeated it here in the past: with regard to the relationship between nursing homes and nursing homes, the distribution of inequalities is very serious and can have serious consequences when this retirement plan ends. In fact, today we have less health care coverage in Norway than we had, for example, in 1995, while there is a strong increase in older people over 80 years, how many really need care and care. The parental plan, as it exists and develops, does not take into account the understaffing of our public health home, which is a direct cause of the unworthy conditions revealed by the State Health Authority and in the Malmedal report, where elderly sick people suffer from day to day congestion in order to meet their basic human needs. The poor manning in the nursing homes has also led to a flight from the nursing profession. In its alternative draft budget, the Progress Party will propose to provide institutional services with 1 000 new posts in 2000. Having these positions does not believe that the Progress Party and I would be particularly problematic if working and pay conditions were better suited to our health professionals. The Progress Party will also propose a State-designated grant for the operation of nursing homes in accordance with the model of the State operating grant to kindergartens. With reference to the Government's Memorandum of Understanding on the Value Base for Health and Care, there has been no case in recent years that has upset me more than the Government's training to approve the Alzheimer's medicine Aricept on a blue prescription. This is an estimate of the absolute weakest of the weakest in old age care. It has been demonstrated in both the home and abroad that Aricept has a good effect on a significant number of newly diagnosed dementia areas for a period of six months and up to two years. It must be allowed to question the human vision of this government when saying no to this too many patients and not least to the related vital medicine. The paradox is that the drug Aricept has been approved for sale in Norway but has not been granted reimbursement of popular benefit, so that only high-income individuals can benefit from this drug. This is neither solidarity nor justice in my opinion. For society there will be considerable sums to save if Aricept became available on blue prescription. A half-year's use of Aricept will cost the Rikstrygdeverket approx. NOK 6000, while a half-year stay in a public hospital, which these patients urgently need, will cost NOK 150 000. But more important than the economic side is the quality of life these patients can get back and maintain with their family and their close relatives for up to two years. It is far more important than economic savings. This matter really has something to do with human vision and, in particular, the view of older people. With regard to the input-based funding at our somatic hospitals, which the Progress Party had completed after 12 years of fighting, partly from July 1997, this has been a success so far. A large number of patients have been treated and the waiting time for the guarantee lists reduced by 50 pst. the last year of operation. But the percentage has to be increased. The Progress Party will also increase the percentage from 50 to 60 during this budgetary procedure in its alternative draft budget. This could further reduce health cows, which, on the contrary, is a shame for the Kingdom of Norway. Finally, I would like to commend the Government for one thing in the Health Budget, namely that it adds to better pain management for patients in the terminal phase. This is particularly important at a time when the pressure from the outside on active death aid is getting stronger and stronger. These are health values, and they provide life-help instead of active death help.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e137	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e140	When I sat and listened to the representative Alvheim, I came to think of the last budget released, the budget we are now working on, and the agreement that the Progress Party there was on. It would be thought that Alvheim had forgotten it already now, but Alvheim and the Progress Party are most responsible for the budget that you are now working on. The Progress Party says that all people should receive the necessary healthcare and that it must be the responsibility of the authorities to ensure that all patient categories are met. At the same time, the party says that the individual hospital should be free to employ the number of specialists they think they need at any time. We know that access to specialists and other doctors is very different in our long-range country. In some parts of the country there is a crisis in access to doctors, while in other parts of the country there is considerable access, and private services of different kinds are growing up. What will the Progress Party do with this situation? Will it, for example? be relevant for the Progress Party to participate in the implementation of instruments or regulations ensuring that all receive the necessary health care? Or does the party believe that the market alone should regulate also in this context? This is a question of the highest degree of safety and respect for those affected by poor medical coverage in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e150	The Progress Party has never entered into a budgetary settlement with the current government – we voted in a subsidiary way for the proposal that is currently the subject of the State budget. But I might remind the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen that there is now a cooperation between the government parties and the Labour Party, so I think you should be a little careful with the criticism that came here. Obviously, there was a lot in the current year's budget we were forced to vote for, but we didn't like it. And it wouldn't surprise me very much if the same situation could also be experienced by the Workers' Party, if one were to get into port with the budget negotiations in the autumn. Yes, I believe the hospitals should be allowed to employ the specialists they need to be able to treat the people on the outside of the hospital, and remove the hospital queues. All parties have given the impression that they want to give hospitals greater freedom, even the Workers' Party is doing it today. And if you mean something about freedom, hospitals must also have the freedom to hire the personnel they need to produce health services. With regard to medical coverage in general in this country, there is a disproportionate distribution, but it is not as bad as many people want it to be. In the case of general practitioners, the medical coverage in relation to the population is, for example, the same in North Norway as it is in South Norway, even in Akershus and in the Municipality of Oslo. In the case of specialists, on the other hand, we have a certain deficiency, but there is a lot to do here by changing the working routines and getting better internal organisation and management at the individual hospital, so that any specialist can do the job he is actually trained for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e159	The representative Alvheim is concerned with giving priority to health and care in particular. This is a commendable commitment. The Christian People's Party is also concerned about this, but in order to give priority to health and care, a comprehensive policy is needed. Such a policy must also focus on preventive health work. Some examples: We know that traffic kills speed. In Sweden, experience shows that lower speed limits reduce both traffic fatalities and injuries. On the news, we also heard the other day that people with higher education and high income have better dental health than others. Thus, the need for health care can be affected by a commitment to knowledge and social cohesion. We also know that tobacco use increases the number of cancer cases, which consume bed places in hospitals. And modern alcohol research also shows the relationship between alcohol consumption and damage. A reduction in e.g. alcohol taxes will increase the purchasing power of people and may lead to increased consumption. The Christian People's Party does not want to stimulate alcohol consumption because health services are already adequately burdened with the treatment of accidents related to alcohol use. My point is that it is necessary to have a comprehensive policy to prevent health damage and accidents. This will ease the pressure on hospitals and care services. The challenge is to see links between, for example: transport policy and health policy, between charging policy and health policy, between social cohesion, training and public health. The government announced in the census the follow-up of several health plans, for which the representative Alvheim has also praised to the Government. One also wants a debate on the value base. Part of this debate is to focus on the individual's responsibility for personal health and the ability of politicians to see links between political choices and health costs. Does the representative Alvheim and the Progress Party agree that this is such a context?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e170	Clearly, there is an obvious link between how we live, how we live, how we live, and how we develop disease. But when that is said, I will be quick to add: We cannot – and I will not believe the Christian People's Party will ever do so – set up fences for those who are self-inflicted with illness, drive them out of our healthcare and care services. I have heard voices that have been involved, particularly in the use of drugs, the use of alcohol and so far also the use of tobacco. We all have a great responsibility for our own health. I think we can quickly agree on that. The preventive health work I see as part of the whole when I talk about health, so there should be no disagreement between the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party in relation to preventive health work. Then we have alcohol, which the Christian People's Party has always been very concerned about. What surprises me many times is that if you now mean everything you say about alcohol and taxes and everything, why not make a proposal in this house to ban the sale of alcohol to Norwegian citizens? You don't, because you know you're going to fail. However, fees are levied every year — with a small exception this year for liqueur wine — so that the trade in smuggling liquor flourishes and the self-production of alcohol flourishes. And then you've achieved the opposite of what you thought you'd achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e179	The representative Alvheim talked about security, and he asked, "What is the security of the individual?" And through a long list, which I agreed with, he finally came to the conclusion that one of the most important things is to have security for life and health and have a good care for the elderly. Fortunately, there is little disagreement about that. I also believe that there is a great deal of consensus that better care for the elderly, a worthy care for the elderly, which Alvheim also had in mind, is a major challenge in today's Norway. The Right Party and the Advance Party agree that the right to choose a nursing home has to do with dignity in the care of the elderly. We agree that older people themselves should have greater influence over their daily lives, they must have the right to choose who will come to their homes. That is why we need to put out services so that they are better and user-led. There are still too many shortcomings. Yes, these shortcomings are so great that it surprises me and disappoints me that the Progress Party, and especially John Alvheim, fell for the temptation in the election campaign to present a large-scale advertising campaign where it said that 50 pst. by Norwegian nursing homes are extremely undernourished and dried. So it turned out that it wasn't 50 pst, but maybe at the base of 1 pst. It's serious enough, but it's also serious to bring fear and anxiety to those you want to give greater security. Alvheim did not distance himself from this when it was revealed that this ad was a bluff and a gross misrepresentation of the conditions, but he called it a tip formulation. It's a mess! I now want to give Alvheim a new opportunity to complain that through this advertising campaign he and the Progress Party just contributed to the opposite of what we believe they want, namely to create security, and not unwarranted fear.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e190	I had been waiting for this line from the Right. There must be a rash of reasonably bad conscience at both the representative Annelise Höegh, the Right and the other parties who criticized us for this advertisement, because they know very well even that 50 pst. of the patients from the hospital who were examined in Aker hospital were undernourished. Then you can have different shades of extreme malnutrition and malnutrition, but they got the diagnosis of malnutrition. And what is then extreme to my thinking is that we have such relationships in Norway today, that older sick people that we leave to the public to take care of, don't eat enough food every day and get undernourished. I see no reason to complain about what was said in that advertisement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e199	There is a manifest misunderstanding. I ask for the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e204	Anneliese Höegh is making the word clear what the president hopes to be is a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e207	There's an obvious misunderstanding when the ad said that 50 pst. by Norwegian health care providers are extremely undernourished and dehydrated, while this is the case, that is 1 pst. are undernourished by Norwegian hospital staff. It's serious. But there's a grotesque distance between the numbers that appear in the title and the actual relationship that Alvheim itself brings out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e212	John I. Alvheim – to the misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e215	I don't know where the representative Annelise Höegh has the one percent from. This study, which was carried out in Aker Hospital by superior Bohemia, showed – it was approximately. 160 patients, I think – that 50 pst. of these patients were diagnosed with malnutrition, and they were hospitalized.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e220	The President does not think it was possible to clarify the misunderstanding, and expects the representatives to be able to continue this debate during the debate. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e226	‘The government will step up its efforts to prevent and combat organised crime, violent crime and the crime of winning’, says the paper. The causes of crime are complex. That is why it is not as easy as more police and stricter penalties solve everything. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to see contexts and consequences both in the justice sector and in society in general. Therefore, efforts must take place in many administrative areas and levels and be a mixture of short-term and long-term strategies. Everyone wants a safe, fair and open society. As a general principle, we can put human dignity and respect, and would like to add the importance of healthy and good attitudes. We need a debate on the fundamental values on which our society should build. The Value Commission gives important input to the debate on which positions should guide the inter-human relations. The Commission shall have inter alia: Concealed violence as one of our ‘values on trial’, creating a book of 52 thesis on violence in Norway and four aspects to focus on. The booklet is recommended. The Christian People’s Party believes that the Ten Commandments of the Bible are a brilliant and short list of memories of how we should deal with one another in order to have a safe and good society. Some of us have to dry to talk about and use such a great legacy as the starting point for, among other things. the individual's views on the right and wrong. Moral and ethical awareness are other concepts that need to be debated with great boldness. Individual and moral responsibility must be central. This is naturally part of both the preventive and the rehabilitating part of combating crime. Equally important is that we do not overlook or trample into disparaging attitudes the unique little germ we all carry in us to become the beneficial people we want to populate our society with. It is the germ we must grasp both in children and young people who are in a so-called risk group, and in those who are characterised as hard-core criminals. Among other things, the Church’s City Mission is developing a good offer for the rehabilitation of security sentences, so that they can become well-functioning and law-abiding citizens of society. Important keywords are respect, trust and demands. Regenic crime has been and is a topic, especially in the Oslo area. In this regard, it was a strong reminder to read the interview with Sebastian, where he says that members of the gang are not trying to appear as school lights, that most people feel a pressure because they fall through in many subjects. To quote Sebastian: «In class they dare not say so much. On questions from the teacher, they might get away with a false outburst of rage that ends up getting out of the classroom. They are marked out of the problem.’ Many of these are disabled in relation to the writing language, either because of mistreated dyslexia, difficulty reading and writing, or because they are immigrants. If they're both, they're struggling extra hard. They fear the future, because mastering language is the key to our information and competence society and to future work and good life. This is one of the areas where we have to apply what we already know. But there are several reasons, and therefore the Christian People's Party believes it is important to increase the research effort related to the relationship between youth and violence. In the Common Era, it goes on to say: ‘The government will facilitate faster justice.’ The Christian People's Party sees it as very important to ensure a better interaction between the different stages of the criminal action chain. Faster winding-up depends on the balance of the system, as additional resource input in one joint can lead to accumulation elsewhere. To illustrate the context: Increased resources to the police will increase the detection of crime. The prosecution authority will thus raise several appeals. More cases brought before the court. Several judges are increasing the pressure on criminal justice. It is important to have effective criminal prosecution, which must involve increased risk of detection, rapid resolution and judgment and into restitution as quickly as possible. The census also signaled: ‘The situation of immigrant women should be given special attention’. Last week’s debate on forced marriage and arranged marriage and that several immigrant women take refuge in crisis centres have updated the point.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e270	At the turn of the century, one of the most important challenges is to show solidarity with those who are the worst in our society. We also need to do that in practical policy. Now it is no longer the great majority who are oppressed and excluded, as was the case when many of our welfare systems were put in place. Most of us have it very well, at least economically, but a minority falls outside. There is a warning for all of us, and the Workers' Party takes this seriously. The government has given clear signals that it will reduce the differences between people, and the Government has indicated that it is doing the best by cooperating with the Workers' Party. We are taking this challenge seriously. We want to cooperate, but that means that our demands for a fairer distribution are met. For it is now imperative that the richest of us contribute more to the community so that we can help those who have the worst. This could be done, for example, by: no longer be such that young people in search of their first dwelling are given up rich parents or grandparents, for that is what is happening to many in our cities and cities today. Many fall outside the housing market when ‘millionaire parents’ become a criterion and it is not a welfare state worthy. The main reason for this is that there are too few dwellings built and then especially reasonable and nuggested dwellings, such as housing. Youth accommodation for students and rentals. When apartments in Oslo of 30 m2 can be sold for 1 million. kr, it's pretty crazy. This is what we have to do. It is good that the Government proposes to increase the mortgage framework of the House Bank by NOK 2 billion, but this is not targeted enough towards those who need it the most. It's going to have to raise a housing policy beyond this. We have to go back to social housing. In fact, the Storting has already adopted a number of concrete proposals that should be followed up. Therefore, the Workers' Party demands the construction of 1000 student housing and several rental homes next year. In the 1990s, the number of homeless people has also increased, and the increase has been highest among young people. This happens at the same time as one can read in the newspapers that among the richest in Norway, housing is not purchased under 15 million. kr. There is something very wrong with the distribution policy when we see such differences in ourselves as well. There are now over 6,000 people in Norway who don't have a permanent place to live, and in addition, we know that the numbers here are big. The most disadvantaged in the housing market also often face other and complex problems. It's so logical that if you don't have a place to live, yeah, it's also harder to figure out the rest of your life. This is unworthy, and not least we who live in one of the richest countries in the world have an obligation to prevent the street from becoming home as it is too many today. Besides having a place to live, which should be a matter of course for everyone, having a job is often crucial to quality of life. We have to remember that the greatest difference today is between those who have a job and those who don't. It is worrying that unemployment is now increasing, and in particular in the shipbuilding and offshore industries. It is therefore necessary to put in place concrete measures to remedy this, as the Labour Party demands, and it is essential that we also have a stronger focus on labour market measures. We have to build out and not build down, as the government has done in the last few years. We also need to focus more on labour market measures, including: through a dedicated package of measures to maintain and develop the competence of vulnerable industries. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind the following: we have under 70 000 full-time workers in Norway, we have over one million people who receive all or part of their income from popular crime. The number of disabled people is increasing dramatically. We now have some 270,000 people who receive disability benefits. And it's a serious cross-section of thought that we have a society in which the majority of adults between 30 and 60 years of age almost work well, while many young people don't let go and over 60 years of age often push out, and sometimes unworthy. Older workers should be more likely to be offered a gradual reduction in retirement, e.g. a two-day pensioner and a three-day professional. If we don't manage to fix this, if we don't manage to offer more flexible arrangements in the working life that are adapted to each individual, everyone loses on it, but society also loses a lot on it, because we miss out on a lot of skills, experience and knowledge that we need. And the most important thing about making changes in the world of work is that we can give more than one meaningful everyday life. Then we have to organize so that we prevent so many people from getting sick and being ill because of the work place. The point is that we want a society where everyone can contribute on their own abilities and assumptions. And society needs as many hands as possible in order to meet the challenges we face in terms of health and elderly care, and in order to secure pensions for people. The situation in the labour market needs to be met with active measures to prevent more people becoming unemployed, and we need to do what we can to get more of the unemployed into work. We also need to strengthen the work to qualify the unemployed for the jobs available. If you think anything about distribution policy, at least it has to appear within employment policy. Here it's not useful to wait and see, here you have to be leading where. «The Communities and county councils shall, through their revenues, be given the opportunity to provide basic welfare services. The municipal administration of the sea shall be extended’, it said to read in the throne. We believe that the government's proposal for a municipal economy for the next year is not sufficient to fulfil the tasks that the municipalities have been assigned to perform, among other things. for the provision of equivalent services to people throughout the country. We said the same thing when the municipal economic proposition was dealt with in ours. There will be no more local maritime administration with the government's arrangement. There must be almost a record in the number of earmarked funds. There is reason to ask whether the municipalities have enough money to make use of the earmarked funds, for example. to the elderly, health and kindergartens. There is reason to believe that if the free income is not increased, it is among other things. the school sector, which will lose most of it. And we know that's bad distribution policy. It is against this background that the Workers' Party proposes NOK 1 billion more in the free income of the municipalities, not least in order to make the investment in the schools. We hope that the government parties will join this. I also think there is a need to reduce state detail management. I think there's a need to reduce the control device we've built to look after the ear-marked devices. This is necessary to release personnel and resources for direct services for people. In the Labour Party, we are also engaged in an important debate on and have an open attitude to what levels of government should do what and whether it is necessary to have the levels of government we have today. What is the overall concern for us is that we will organise the public sector so that it serves our citizens and users best. Then we're going to organise our levels of government and the public sector based on that. It is now absolutely necessary to get a promise for those without housing, to get a promise for those who do not have a job to go to and get a promise for the local government sector. At the beginning of a new century, the slogans remain of freedom, equality and solidarity. The Labour Party will step up its efforts to ensure fair distribution and social cohesion and hopes to involve the government parties in such a policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e307	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e310	It was interesting to see on the right of the representative Brustad, who is now opening up if nothing else, an assessment of the state administration level. Then I think it's going to be right, as I once said, that we might be able to cancel the county election in 5-8 years. But that's not what I should have a line about. I noticed that the representative Sylvia Brustad talked about housing and housing prices on the market. Prices depend on access. If there is sufficient access to housing, not least access to land, there will be a reduction in prices. In all municipal governments around the country where we are represented, the Progress Party has tried to do something about regulating enough plots for housing, that there will be enough plots in the market at any time to keep prices low, so that most people can build and own their own homes. It has been an official policy and a sensible policy in this country, unlike many other places. But what I've noticed is that there's a party in Norway that has been a drag for having enough available plots around the country, it's the Labour Party. It might have been interesting to have a right with the municipal spokesmen of the Workers' Party if she now wants to put pressure on her newly elected municipal government representatives to see that there is still enough space available for housing construction – not least if the Marka limit in Oslo can be lifted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e324	Let me comment on the question of the county municipality first. I would like to stress that we have not concluded in advance. We believe that this is an important matter that deserves a thorough assessment and investigation before considering what to do, and we are going to address that debate. This question is too important to change it only, if necessary, through a Document No. 8 proposal here in this house, as the Progress Party has now tried in several rounds. They have been voted down every single time, and I think you should take this a little more seriously than just once again and once again promote Document No. 8 without going into the material in a proper way. To that end, this matter is too serious. With regard to the comments in relation to housing, it is straightforward and it is incorrect when it is claimed that the Workers' Party is not to make land available and to help those who need housing to get it. And I would also say, yes, we are for those who want it, of course, to be able to build and own their own homes. But for those groups that have the worst in the housing market today, among others. Here in Oslo – the more than 6,000 people who don’t have a place to live, the young people who depend on rich parents or grandparents – it’s not primarily about owning a dwelling, but about being allowed to rent a dwelling for a period of time. There I have to say that I have not just experienced that the Progress Party has been the leading arms dealer in being able to offer housing just for the most difficult jobs in the housing market. If we're talking about distribution policy, it's essential that we do something about the housing market, and that's when we have to build more reasonable, cheap homes here in Oslo. For those who have the most difficulty, who also have other complex problems, we need to look at other types of housing where it is possible to get treatment in addition. I wish the Progress Party would rather spend time and resources going into it and be willing to do something about it instead of criticising the Workers' Party on a completely wrong basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e335	Thorbjørn Jagland said in his speech that youth has a failing belief in the political system, and that we now cannot break any more promises, which otherwise sound like new tones. The representative Brustad also spent a lot of time building housing in his post, as the head of the Workers' Party also mentioned, and that having a better housing policy would be a solution for getting young people interested in politics. The Socialist Left Party believes that we can win the youth's interest by giving 16-year-olds the right to vote, and having participated in school election debates together with the Right Party and the Advance Party, I think that their solution is to be cheaper beer. All these things testify that we're taking youth too easily. Framework conditions for young people’s growth conditions are important, but the most important thing is to take the content of life seriously. As politicians, we hang ourselves in the frame, because that's who we can do something with. But it's so important to be willing to discuss the ideologies of our own parties. The Christian People's Party is now inside this process. We're dry. But it does not seem that the Labour Party is equally willing to take the same debate. Igland admits when you ask for the values and old party base of the Workers' Party, that no one can just build on the original ideology of the parties. But it is very important that we take the debate on ideology. Is it so that the Workers' Party is afraid of this and of what can then be revealed? We have to dry up the value base, the social system and the long lines. In this way, we can take young people seriously and meet them with a seriousity that goes beyond just framework conditions. We in the Christian People's Party are not afraid to do so. We have a lively debate in the party, and now we challenge the Labour Party to have the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e342	I can assure the representative Dagrun Eriksen that we in the Labour Party are not afraid to take either one or the other debate, nor about what the representative Eriksen was about. We are now embarking on a new programme debate towards our national meeting to be in November next year. In this respect, of course, we will also discuss these matters. In addition, we have a very strong youth organisation, which is very active and which believes a lot about this. Of course, we should also listen to what they have to say. I think it is absolutely vital that we listen to what young people have to say. I think many young people are concerned about just being able to have a care to stay when they're going to study. I think many young people are concerned that there's a good content, and a good environment in the school they're going to study, and I think they're busy getting a job when the time comes. These are key questions for young people. The representative Eriksen probably traveled around in the campaign as most of the others. So did I, and I met many young people. What I met was just these things that most young people were concerned about. In addition, the Labour Party has gone to the fore to set up what we call the Youth County, where young people in the counties can sit together and decide on things. Youth councils around the municipalities I think is a way we should move on. It should develop in much more municipalities. We also have to dry up giving young people more power. That's what we've been up to. Of course, we also want to go on with that. We're taking youth seriously. We're also going to continue the discussions we're now going on, both in terms of ideology, and in terms of other things. I just want to say that, of course, it is important for everyone to discuss the content of life, but more important than, for example, it is. a value commission is to be out talking to those young people who are actually young today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e355	If there is a budgetary settlement between the government parties and the Workers' Party in the harvest, it is probably due first and foremost to a short-term need for the Workers' Party to rectify a distrustful election result for which the Workers' Party was not prepared. This government was created because the Workers' Party was to provide the opposition with a training project in the autumn of 1997. As late as last spring, Thorbjørn Jagland said that the government, with the support of the majority of the population, has put an unexplored bomb under the welfare state. Now the bomb is not more threatening than that the Workers' Party by putting on some tax increases and some minor adjustments to the appropriations are now going to dearm the bomb. Better distribution policy, it's called. What's worse is that the training project the Workers' Party has put the centre parties under, obviously has become a forgotten project at the Workers' Party. What they warned against in the position is now being addressed in the opposition – not least through a tax policy that is an instrument of distribution policy, where the party is committed to things that are harmful to both jobs and value creation. Or to take an example from Sylvia Brustad's committee area: where they warned of a prior election against transfers in the municipal sector, they issued a blank promise in our municipal economic proposition that it would be granted $1 billion more than the government without knowing what the government would provide. The working party at its best is in favour of structural measures such as energy policy and modernisation as it needs, and they have often done so in cooperation with the Right. But what we're seeing now is that they refuse to put it into the budget negotiations as a premise. It could have been good to ask Sylvia Brustad: when a new idea has begun about the county and about a public sector to provide tailor-made services to users, will one add that there will be one of the results of the budgetary negotiations with the government parties? Or: When should we see concrete proposals in these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e362	Let me first say to the representative Ryssdal that the government of Jagland left because there was a bourgeois majority in the Stortinget, and because there was a majority of parties in the Stortinget who went around the election campaign and said they wanted to have a change of government. That's why we had to leave as a government. Now, when we want to cooperate with the center parties, it's not to fix any election results, as Ryssdal said. That's because there's been a change in the center parts. We're happy about that. We've seen that it's an opening to be able to twist the distribution policy more towards what the Workers' Party stands for. When prominent people in the central government have clearly stated that it is only through cooperation with the Workers' Party that we can achieve a fairer distribution, we take advantage of the opportunity that lies there to do something about it. That's new. We're happy about that. That is why we have also made clear demands for what is needed in order to achieve a fairer distribution than is currently provided for in the government's draft budget. We hope that we can achieve results together. The demands we have made on those negotiations are not claims that are harmful to the workplace. On the contrary, there are demands that will lead us to reduce unemployment, which will lead us to manage to get more people to work. It's one of the greatest challenges we've ever faced. It's just about distribution policy as long as the distinction between those who have a job and those who don't have a job is so big. We know that it means a lot in a distribution policy context. So the question of the local economy. We said in ours, when the municipal economics proposition came, that we would propose to grant approx. NOK 1 billion more than that proposed by the Government. It's not right, as Ryssdal says, that we didn't know what the government was bringing. The government presented clear figures for us in the municipal economic proposition. So we went in for another $1 billion. That's also what we're proposing now, and we hope that we get a pass on it together with the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e373	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e377	A debate on the throne is a good opportunity to point out the political challenges you face and, if possible, to show which solutions you would recommend. Right-wing speakers will take advantage of this persuasion debate. However, there is also a debate to look at the signals given by the Government in the throne, and the next round if these stand in this room. Thus, there is an opportunity for the parties to assess one's relationship with the government that has held the throne. In the post-war period, relations between the parties to the government and the Right have, with few exceptions, been marked by the law of reciprocity. This relationship of reciprocity has varied over time in strength and intensity – preserved. But there's always been some more or less visible ties between the center and the right. This has been the case from a long time before the establishment of the Lyng government. The reason why there has been such a relationship of reciprocity is probably attributable to many individual elements. The historical conditions of course lie at the bottom of it all. In many cases of ideological undertones, there have often been conflicting views between the centre parties and the right – at least on the direction in which solutions should be sought. Such parallel views on things with ideological overtones — or undertones if you want — are still emerging in the political landscape. There may be things that the autonomy of the private property and council with regard to educational/private ownership of the right of individuals to make their own choices on the limitation of the direct power of the public vis-à-vis citizens; The perhaps most obvious issue of an ideological nature so far in this period is the issue of the introduction of cash support. This is a matter that definitely goes along the traditional lines of Norwegian policy. It has actually appeared as the hand brake itself for the Workers' Party and is the cause of the desert migration they have started. Historically, it has also been the case that the bourgeois parties have preferred governments made up of bourgeois parties. There are exceptions from this general rule. I think, among other things: on the recommendations of the Centre Party following the resignation of the Syse Government. But also in view of what government preferences the individual parties have had, it has been a kind of line. Therefore, it probably came as no shock to this government that the Right stated that a Bondevik government was preferable to a Jagland government. I believe, however, that many bourgeois voters with increasing wonder have recorded that both government councils and representatives of the government parties are almost continuous since the last budgetary settlement with the Right has pointed out how important it would be to have a budgetary settlement with the Labour Party next time. I register that Bondevik is about to sign up for Jagland, primarily because Jagland has put the list so low that you can go over it without going through it. So what has now happened is that the government parties will only seek budgetary cooperation with the Right if you fail with the Workers' Party. If the government parties were now to turn their right backs, you should not ignore the fact that it may have the effect that the Right does the same thing. That means that the Right in the future will have good reason to be less concerned with the life and death of this government than we should have been. However, the right has not closed a negotiating door, and our address must be assumed to be known from previous rounds. In the Common Era, the Government says: «Businesses must be guaranteed stable and internationally competitive framework conditions. The government wants a long-term and balanced ownership.» We are now entering into a time of concrete negotiations on next year's government budget, where the framework conditions of business and jobs will inevitably come under pressure. The reason why this year there may seem to be a special pressure on the business environment is the fact that the Labour Party's demands for a basis for negotiation go in the wrong direction. The views expressed by the head of the Workers’ Party in the run-up to these negotiations may indicate that the Government’s formulations in the Common Era of stable and internationally competitive framework conditions, long-term and balanced ownership, may be difficult to maintain. Iland said in his post earlier today that the company after business is moving abroad. I believe that, among other things: It is precisely because of the Workers' Party's eternal struggle against private ownership in Norwegian business. It won't be good enough for Jagland and Opseth until it's the state that's taken over the ownership itself. And then I think far beyond the hundreds of millions that are intended for the IT fornebu project. The Labour Party's presented list of requirements in the forthcoming negotiations on next year's government budget is a recipe for how we should expect Norwegian companies to become potential buyers in the future. Is there really anyone who believes that Jagland has a genuine desire to stimulate private ownership in Norwegian companies? Of course he doesn't. From last year's draft budget, we have the Workers' Party's recipe, which is simple and effective. It's making private ownership as uninteresting as possible. At the same time, the Labour Party launches a policy on how to move in with state capital in order to secure national Norwegian ownership, then under the Vignette: Where are Norwegian long-term owners? We're already at the top of Europe in public ownership, and I fear that IT Fornebu is just a beginning for strategic political ownership by working party teams. I would like to strongly warn against such a policy and such a development. What we should do was ask ourselves the question: what can we do to stimulate ordinary people to become more interested in putting their savings into jobs? This is a reason why private individual ownership is on the defensive in Norwegian business. If there's something this nation needs on the threshold of a new century, it's making sure we have something to live on after the oil age. We simply need people who see themselves earned by taking risks in achieving a greater gain than taking a firm and regulated job. We can't work for this welfare state of all men, someone must create the values to be distributed in the future as well. One of the greatest competitive advantages a nation can have in the future, I think I'll have a competent population and a competent workforce. Education must therefore be a matter of course for all of us at all levels, and especially for a nation that initially has a generally high cost level. Among other things, for Norway in the future it will not be enough to have a good school, we have to have the very best. When the Right wants to give priority to education in the fight for limited budget resources, we see this as an absolutely necessary step that needs to be taken now and not when everything else has been done. The future will require even more qualified staff than it is today. In order to succeed in a broad-based feeding effort, we need to use the whole country. Then it becomes important that we have communications that can be involved and reduce the enormous transport costs that Norwegian businesses are burdened with. The distance relief must be reduced briefly and appropriately. Communication is and will be the most important district policy tool we can use. Without the possibility of establishing profitable jobs in districts, it makes no sense to talk about maintaining steady development throughout the country. Transport is and will be the main means of achieving such an objective. That is why this budgetary procedure is also a high priority for the Right. The need for a strong commitment to transport investment is not just a district issue; it is a matter for the nation as a whole. So to what has gone on in the tax debate, which has been a lot up today. Here I think it's enough to remind you that it's the way with the sheep that you can cut it many times, and then you can skin it once. I think that guidance might take the Workers' Party inwards. So to this with fair distribution. Sylvia Brustad and others from the Workers' Party hold the rhetorical to the boring. What is fair distribution? It can be said from a working party team that it is only when all the money has been the road to the state register; initially everything belongs to the state. And to the rhetorical point that has been used around, for example, this with shipping taxes, I would say, it can't be that the leader of the Workers' Party and the Workers' Party's depositors are so ignorant of the reality that this industry is in, and at any time has imagined that a conversion of the shipping tax would lead to a future increase in tax revenue from this industry. It is an industry that in reality has never paid much tax, and that is probably not going to do so, precisely because overnight it reduces the number of companies operating in Norway, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e441	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e444	The representative Gabrielsen focused on his persuasion possibilities to address the challenges we face in society, and apart from the more fundamental values anchoring the lines and dividing lines of Norwegian party politics. And I think it's important and correct that he does. The representative Gabrielsen was perhaps most concerned that the dividing lines that were going between the Right and the Centre on one side and the Labour Party and the SV on the other. He himself explained his policy to the Right in such a way that I thought it would help to substantiate that the dividing lines of Norwegian policy go much between Right and, at least, parts of the centre party. That's why I want to clarify the dividing lines a little bit more, and challenge the representative Gabrielsen on two or three points, because I would like to think that the Right Party and the Labour Party share a common understanding of the evolution of society. Because of technological developments and an increasingly international economy, we have a huge need for change both in the public and private sectors. The products change, the market changes, and the economy changes. That's why I think we have a common understanding that new knowledge and competences are becoming important input factors. The right also focused a lot on education, knowledge and competence in the election campaign. But then the question is, who is going to provide this with a good education? The Labour Party believes that the public should take responsibility for it, and the public should provide a differentiated offer and should make demands based on the statements. It gives all the possibilities of a variable supply, but it also gives every opportunity to get an offer regardless of the economic situation of a parent or a self-employed person. Is the representative Gabrielsen written in such a thought, or does he have a completely different attitude?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e453	I think I have to give the representative Rudihagen the right in that often it has been that the Workers' Party and the Right have had a relatively consistent understanding of the reality of which one is surrounded. Now it's like on several occasions we've assigned different drugs based on the same diagnosis, but I think any debate is about having a common starting point. In terms of education and competence in general, and in terms of the challenges we face both in terms of business conversion and in terms of the public sector, I find it very difficult to say that there should be large dividing lines. There are not large lines of Norwegian policy in terms of primary responsibility for education, nor in the areas where Rudihagen was involved. We even have a common understanding between the Right and the Workers' Party for part of the training to take place at the closed airport right outside here. What the disagreement has gone on is just the ownership itself. In terms of the content and the challenges we face, I think we have a common perception. And there is no doubt that what becomes one of the most important competitive moments of a high-cost nation is the competence of the people who inhabit that nation. And then I think it's very important to take the necessary grips now at the entrance of the new hundredth year and prioritize it on top. It's done to the right earlier in this period, we've pointed that out in the election campaign, and we're going to do that in the alternative state budget that we're going to put forward, if not for very long.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e460	The representative Gabrielsen was in his speech very concerned about saying what parallel interests the Right had with the government parties, and that is certainly well and good. But there are also areas where the Right, at least verbally, disagrees with the government parties. I am thinking about agricultural policy. How many times have I not heard a nutritionist in the Right opinion that he wants more competition in the agricultural sector and lower food prices in favour of Kari and Ola Nordmann? And that's well and good, there we and Right agree. He has also described that the gap in food prices between Norway and our neighbouring countries is increasing. And that's a correct description as I see it. But when it comes to the concrete proposals, what does the Right do? Well, something about acquiring agricultural property and State pre-purchasing rights on the concession side, but it's been easy to become a lot of cosmetics. We have a turnover law in Norway that regulates foreign dumping. This year we expect to dump 17 000 tonnes of prima bovine and porcine meat abroad for a lick and nothing, and this through-regulated system helps to push prices up in Norway. This Sale Act supports the Right. And when we in the Progress Party propose to remove it, right-wing votes against. The same applies to the entire agricultural contract system which provides guarantees to self-employed workers in the food production industry one year in advance. These are unique examples of a well-regulated system and a huge waste in our country. These systems support the Right, but on the other hand they want more competition and lower food prices. Hasn't the Right here lost any of its credibility? How does this relate?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e467	I have no concern whatsoever either on my own or on behalf of the party for having lost credibility in what is going on in agricultural policy, even though we do not at all find it appropriate to vote in favour of the 180o turns from Hedstrom. After all, it had become a continuous slope from New Year's Eve to Christmas Eve in agricultural policy. Through the annual agricultural negotiations, we have indicated where we want changes, we have indicated what proceeds it gives. We will also do so in the context of this year's budget. And it's like in this area as in so many others, that when the Right shows a necessary adjustment, the Advance Party makes such a 180-degree turn. I fully agree on what Hedstrom suggests about the dumping phenomenon we have seen, where 17 000 tonnes of pigmeat and beef were sold for 3-4-5-6 kroner. And now, fortunately, we're getting the help of international agreements to at least significantly reduce this. It is a political majority in this Chamber who have joined the relationship and description that lower food prices for agricultural products are an objective. The gap in prices between us and our neighbouring countries needs to be reduced. I think that's a very necessary recognition that you're going to take over, and I guess I feel really on the basis of what I've read and heard by the Minister of Agriculture, and what I experienced in the election campaign in direct debate, that there are confessions that go far into the Government. I therefore look confidently at the debate in connection with the agricultural communication that I assume will come as advertised, namely before New Year's. Then the Right will re-examine the well-known and feasible proposals that we have promoted in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e474	Thorbjørn Jagland used a large part of his post to talk about the danger of nuclear war. Hagen talked mostly about the Workers' Party, while Petersen expressed dissatisfaction over the state of things, especially about the government situation. And now the representative Gabrielsen follows up by continuing to express frustration. He also went back in history. Right is right in that it was written history when John Lyng snowed together a bourgeois government alternative in 1963, even though that government was only sitting for three weeks. It was good craftsmanship. But I want to remind the representative Gabrielsen of John Lyng's strategy before 1963 when he took over as parliamentary leader of the Right. Even before the election in 1957, there was a cautious sense of organized cooperation between the Bond Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. According to Langslet's Lyng biography, right after the municipal elections in 1959, the idea was that it was unfortunate that the three centre parties cooperated and that they found a cooperation in the centre. Many in the Right were concerned. And we remember the Right Total Rejection in 1996 and 1997 of the Center Party as an unprofessional party, despite the fact that the Right has been in government with the Center Party five times. But what did John Lyng do in 1959? He didn't start sketching out the collection in the center and calling it an airlock or trying to kill the cooperation. He said it was positive that someone had found together, it was good, it was the beginning of something, and it meant that the Right could come along at a later time. My question to Gabrielsen is, who does he consider to be John Lyng's heir today in terms of snoring cooperation solutions? Now I also have to assume that this is a throne debate, that there were little big visions and perspectives in Gabrielsen's posts. Earth's population today passed 6 billion, and the majority of them live in poverty. Why, then, will the Right cut billions of aid to the poorest?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e483	To start with, why the Right will cut billions of aid: well, now we haven't submitted our budget yet, and I think the representative Rise can calm down relatively well in that way. I guess the proposal we're going to make is well thought out also in relation to what can be used in a reasonable way. I agree with the statements I heard from the Prime Minister not long ago that it is not only the quantity that counts in relation to aid, but also the quality. It's not just to print out the biggest checks. It may give you the greatest self-satisfaction in relation to your own potentially bad or good conscience, but it is equally true that the money is spent in a reasonable way. I think we're on relatively safe ground in that way. In the case of the names that may have been used in the name of the war, it was mentioned among others. airlock – I’m not going to rip up what was said on the battlefield at the 1997 big shot. That was too much for me to take it up now. I just want to draw the representative Rise's attention to my excellent posts, which I suppose are in Stortingstidende, so I don't have to repeat it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e490	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e493	We have gone into a growing session where the distribution policy is to be highlighted as one of the most important perspectives. The Life and Income Equalisation Notice, the Equalisation Notice, has demonstrated that the differences have increased since 1986. It is not only in Norway that we have refocused on distribution policy and poverty. In the weekend, the big concert NetAid went out to millions of people all over the world across the Internet. Support from the UNDP is an action to involve ordinary people in tackling the poverty problem. The Council of Europe will later organise its global forum for the eradication of poverty, where the Government took part in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In the debate today, the Labour Party has given an interesting signal about cooperation in the field of distribution policy. However, I can see that the Centre and the Labour Party do not share a common view of history or of the practical situation today. It doesn't work when Thorbjørn Jagland pushes ahead of himself a number of bigots, which are supposed to have gone against the Workers' Party in matters of distribution. It was the Workers' Party that presented the 1995 Welfare Communication and got multiple numbers together with the Right and Part Progress Party for the restriction of a range of welfare arrangements. It was also the Labour Party that proposed a discussion of the increasing differences in 1996. It was the Workers' Party that has the hardest fight against the 1000-pocket of the minimum pension list, a proposal that has given a safer economy for 330,000 pensioners in this country. Furthermore, it is striking that Ichland is only busy that the rich have been richer, and not that they postponed here in the country, the poorest, have actually fallen behind in the same period. Now we have the chance to build a new bulk of a distribution policy that covers all the groups. It must be possible to be engrossed in the creation and employment of relationships that provide the basis for a varied business life, but at the same time to accept that those groups that are lagging behind in the development of wealth will be where they are today. In addition to reimbursing the tax on those who have taxable income, we need to focus on making life easier and better for those who are outside the labour market, those who are struggling with illness or have other problems. The pure working line has reached its maximum, we have to realize that not everyone can enter the ordinary working life under normal conditions. This is why the Government has proposed a smoother workline. We have proposed wage increases, we have proposed municipal responsibility tests for the provision of long-term social assistance recipients, and we have proposed more flexible arrangements for the combination of work and social security. We attach great importance to the ability of the individual to support and take responsibility for himself and the community. This is the best platform for individual self-respect. That's the key to good living conditions. The government will therefore facilitate the economically and politically authoritative person who can be self-help and self-help in all areas. In addition, the public shall be responsible for an available, reliable and more fine-tuning network for all – without regard to ability to operate. All in the draft budget for the year 2000 we propose new and increased efforts to follow-up the Equalisation Communication, before deposit management. I look forward to doing both the steps we invite into the state budget, and taking the big follow-up of the forecast when the Stortinget has said its spring 2000. The government has taken and will continue to take several initiatives to smooth out differences. We're notifying in the throne the torment of disabled people's living conditions. We want tools that promote the goal of full participation and equality for the disabled. A public selection, the Manneråk selection, is in full swing with such work, with the deadline of 1 October 2000. Today, I am presenting a progress report on the disability action plan, which shows that the vast majority of its 161 actions over three years have already started. Through the Health 2000 and Health 2000, as we present at the turn of the year, the Government is taking the initiative to widen its discussion of the value base and the content of care and health services. The expression ‘respect and dignity’ shall be highlighted. For me, there is a clear link between the follow-up to the action plans for the care of the elderly, for the disabled, for the reduction of drug use, and the exaggeration message and care in 2000. They're all part of the government's goal: a more open, safer and more solid society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e519	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e523	During the last growing-up period, Groningensrepresentative Meltveit Kleppa used this pulp to speak diligently about the cause of the weakest groups. But it was before she became the Council of State and the Minister of Social Affairs. That's why it was totally unthinkable for the Workers' Party that Social Minister Meltveit Kleppa last year could make a proposal to take the sick money from those who earned the least, while those who served the most would get more in the form of tax relief. In practice, it means that this large group of about 200,000 — to a large extent women who depend on their income even if they are small — have to work even if they are sick and should actually be sick. But after pressure from the Workers' Party, the Government said in connection with the revised National Budget this spring that they would correct the social error. But it didn't fit to do it then, and you push the problem over to the budget for next year. Now, however, the state budget is available for next year, and, as a matter of fact, the Minister of Social Affairs is pushing the case again – now to the next summer. This is a little credible and does not promise good for the distribution policy in this country. Last year's tax lists are now public and reading material for most people. It's interesting to see that many make a lot, but pay very little in taxes. Here's something to pick up. Why is it so difficult for the Social Minister to get through the issues and the groups she was so concerned about just a few years ago?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e534	The representative Eye claims that there is a difference – from my point of view – between what I said in the previous ageing period and what I am doing now. Let me then remind you that I have actually managed the work of the Government with a big message of living conditions and incomes that involves a comprehensive analysis of what has happened from 1986 to 1997 – that is how far we had figures – and that tells us that those who had the most in 1986 have improved their incomes and living conditions dramatically. Those who had at least 1986 have just got a little bit of improvement, but they've fallen behind the average income increase, which is 13 pst. In addition to this message, the Government proposes measures in a broad field for people with disabilities in our country. We follow up some of these proposals in the budget, and we invite the Stortinget to decide on measures that will both involve a more fine-tuning net, which will mean better public services, and which will mean a softer working line. We were faced with a very special budgetary situation last year – it probably also thinks of the representative Signe Eye – where it was actually not about the increase in the budget, but about a common issue: proposing a reduction of DKK 9 billion. As part of that contraction, we are also promoting the proposal for a reduction in sick pay. Now we are going to reverse that proposal, we are going to downgrade this income limit, and we are going to propose that it be applied from 1 July 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e543	The Minister for Social Affairs spoke in large and fine terms about distribution policy, welfare development, his message of expediency and a number of other things. But then it seems strange to those of us who have come so far that we have read the budget thoroughly, that what the government is doing is introducing more and more taxes on disease in this country. There's a general trend in excess of excesses that at least I get very worried about, for the sick, and the chronically ill, in this country have economic problems. Is the social minister's good distribution policy constantly increasing the proportion of sick people in this country? Why could the Minister of Social Affairs and the Government not have waited for the work to be done or, at least, to be carried out in assessing the total ownership of this country? That's one piece. So a little about what has to do with the follow-up to the action plan on care for the elderly in Norway. Yesterday’s VG reports an article on the development of sick home places in Norway, and incredibly – but unfortunately as the Progress Party has pointed out earlier – there is actually a decrease in the number of sick homes compared to 1996. So my question to the Minister of Social Affairs is: how does the Minister of Social Affairs view this development, that what is being built around the municipalities, are nursing homes and not nursing homes, for which there is an alarming need in this country? Will the Minister of Social Affairs address this issue, so that we can now speed up the construction of hospitals in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e552	It is right that the representative, Nesvik, says, that the government has started a work to look closer to the properties, to look closer at who becomes the frame and who should be screened, and to get a system where there are two roofs – where there is a roof that protects large consumers and chroniclers. What is in the budget is essentially a price adjustment, and it simply means that a budget should have both an income side and an expenditure side. We have proposed a price adjustment on the properties in order to have the ability to spend more on health and care services. The action plan for the care of the elderly is in the municipalities, in the follow-up from the county and in the follow-up from the department. What I'm busy about is that it's the oldest older people, the ones who need the most, who are going to care for and care for through the action plan. Then the keyword is day-to-day care and care. It is also such that there should be local variations when it comes to how they are designed. Today, there is an approximation between the contents of a nursing home and the contents of a nursing home, and there are many older people who feel that they are now being provided with care facilities associated with a nursing home. We are now running a review to keep the Storting orientated. In a separate communication in spring 2000, we will present the results after the first two years of the action plan. However, our information so far suggests that the distribution is consistent with what the Stortinget assumed, and overall in the action plan, there should be an increase in the ratio of the sick home per year after 2001. 1 000 inhabitants before and after the action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e561	I think the Social Minister now, not least in the opening of his speech, made an interesting contribution and an interesting observation that the alliances in the distribution policy are far from being as simple as the Workers' Party has tried to claim here today. For she pointed out that in the main distribution policy document we dealt with in the previous enlargement period, as the Workers' Party stated, namely the welfare message, the alliances went not least between the Workers' Party, the Right and, in part, the Advance Party on the one hand, which is aware that preserving the welfare community, having a good distribution policy, among other things. This means that it will pay to work, it will pay to take up education. So then the alliances between the Right and the Workers' Party and partly the Advancement Party went, precisely because we see that the welfare society needs to be secured through new welfare arrangements. But when it came to guarding voluntary work, giving voluntary activities better status, providing opportunities for private pension schemes, then the Right was with the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. I also noticed that a few days ago, the Minister of Social Affairs had an insightful and interesting article in the Newspaper on Social Security and Retirement expenditure in the next century. There she just pointed out the alarming increase in disability pensions and also the alarming development of the AFP scheme. She had a convincing argument, and the government has a convincing argument in the budget to change important aspects of the AFP scheme in order not to favour some workers, not to give overcompensation in the pension system. However, it is precisely in this area that the Workers' Party now requires the Government to abandon these important distribution policy aspects. How has the Minister for Social Affairs intended to deal with this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e570	There were two themes here. One was what voluntary effort has to say in the Norwegian community. The government wants to give voluntary organisations and voluntary individuals the proper attention. It comes out both through the voluntary service and through the increase in the number of volunteer centres – in fact 62 in the years that we have now been responsible – likened to care 2000’s. At the same time, Annelise Höegh looks at the future situation when it comes to the fear of the people; all those who draw away from an active life with – I would say – experience and competences that should have been used separating longer. It is my view that we need a large workforce in the future. That is what we look at in many sectors, not least in the care sector. We must then be willing to facilitate, on the one hand, that the older workers who need and who want to retire from an active life of dignity should have the opportunity to do so. On the other hand, we must bear in mind that the government of Jagland is setting up a pre-pension selection that has provided a job and points out that for some occupational groups it is actually responding to retirement rather than to work longer. No one is interested in – whether in society or in the individual or in the individual workplace – that we have an over-stimulation of taking out a pension rather than continuing with the experience and competence of an older worker.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e582	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e585	A few sentences mention that the Government's ambition is to strengthen the European crisis management capability, while NATO is to be the foundation of our security policy. I agree, of course, with this in mind, but I would like to stress that this is a very demanding exercise. I will try to justify why, because it concerns so essential Norwegian defence and security policy interests. Decisions are taken to shut down the VEU and transfer the activities of the VEU to EU bodies. The WEU has been the approach taken by Norway as a member associated with the development of security policy in Europe. It has been a sleeping organization, but it has experienced significant vitalization in the last ten years. And precisely this revitalisation has made it evident and made it necessary for Europe to improve crisis management both politically, diplomatically and militarily, it is necessary to incorporate this into other forms, in particular political forms, where it has the opportunity to take political decisions to prevent crises and conflicts from developing into war. This means that much of the security policy debate in Europe, which is important to our own security, will take place in EU bodies, and there is little or no opportunity for us to participate. At the same time, much of the security policy debate that has also been held in NATO will be transferred to the EU because NATO will be the body that will largely take responsibility for our overall security, that is. defend us against a total invasion. It means very much that the debate on security and defence policy will be moved from the North Atlantic Assembly, NATO, to the EU, and will to a large extent be influenced by countries that have decision-making powers within the EU, which are not members of NATO. Of course, I support a development in Europe that will enable Europe to manage the crisis better than we have been, and the results of the conflicts in the former Yugoslavia have shown us. But it is a very demanding task to seek to safeguard Norway's defence and security interests in this picture, because Norway may be the country in Europe, in NATO, which has at least noticed the consequences of a new security policy arena after the end of the Cold War. Of course, it has to do with our geopolitical importance, our need to have European and North Atlantic cooperation in the defence and security policy of the North Atlantic, but also our need for broad defence and security policy cooperation with regard to our vital interests in the socket, as the largest energy producer in Europe. I do not feel sure that Norwegian interests could be taken care of in a body where the discussion would go without Norway having any opportunity to be represented. I feel sure that in NATO there will still be opportunities to assert Norwegian interests, but there will be a difficult debate as Europe and the EU become more interesting in the security policy debate, because what is the most likely threat and the most likely security risk in Europe is the development of regional and local conflicts, an area that we are in favour of the EU being better able to deal with, while collective defence will come into the background. What surprises me, and what worries me, is that this raises so little political debate in Norway, because we are facing a formidable challenge. I have seen that there are some journalists, and I have also seen that there are some researchers in the foreign policy environment who have tried to start a debate like this. However, I am concerned that this debate does not involve political involvement, and I am concerned that this debate does not involve popular involvement, because vital Norwegian security interests are at stake. The government is facing a very demanding task in this transition, in which the organs of the WEU are to be laid down and transferred to the EU, and the agreements necessary for Norway to have an opportunity to have its vote heard are to be put in place. I hope that it will be possible, but it is quite obvious that it is a little remarkable to be responsible in NATO for the collective defence of Norway, while in many ways the policy is determined by Sweden, which is not a member of NATO, and which has clearly and explicitly said that they do not want to take responsibility for the collective defence of Europe. I hope that time in the future will form the basis for greater political commitment to these very important issues. Thorbjørn Jagland, speaking to the Stortinget today, said that there is a need to look very carefully at how we organise the public sector and how we organise the various administrative bodies in Norway. Modernisation of the public sector must not just be something that we use as a proponent. It will be completely impossible for us to meet the major challenges of the Norwegian welfare state if we are not able to deal better with the problems we face in the public sector. And the main problem is that too little of the resources are used for service production, and too much of the resources are used for administration and bureaucracy. In my opinion, this is a result of the way we control it. This is a result of the way in which we in Stortinget facilitate the government to operate central management of tasks that could obviously be better solved locally, better solved at the individual workplace. Just shifting to health care input-driven funding in many ways creates quite a red tape, because the demands we place at the heart mean that the various health institutions have to provide much more evidence of what they are actually doing. And this documentation should also be checked in good, traditional, state-owned terms. Therefore, the documentation and control apparatus on input-driven funding is very much depriving resources of what was intended, namely to get more resources to care for people’s health. This example can be transferred to a number of areas of this society, where through the way we control, through the way we take away from the individual workplace, each municipality takes the opportunity to make the right choices, and establishes state, county and municipal bureaucracy, which – I'm sorry to say – steal resources from service production to the individual. That's why it's not enough to say that we're going to modernise the public sector. Therefore, it is not enough to have programme formulations on this. There must also be a change of attitude in this House, in the Government and in the Government if we are to have a chance to modernise the public sector in such a way that we really will succeed. It is only necessary to accept that in large parts of public administration there is a culture that ensures that every time a new measure is taken, you do not rely on those who are going to do the job, and then you set up control regimes to do this. I am convinced that if we are to have a chance to succeed municipally, regionally and centrally with the modernisation of the public sector, it must mean delegation based on trust, not delegation based on mistrust. We cannot accept that we should have audit, documentation and control of the extent to which we have subsequently committed. But delegation also means being able to accept that from time to time it makes mistakes. It must be acceptable in a democracy that, in a number of situations, people do not always draw the right conclusions and make the right arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e608	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e611	The representative Cosmo spoke at the end of his article about trusting those who are going to do the job. Earlier in the post he talked about the Defence, NATO, etc. Let's connect the two statements that he made. I would like him to elaborate on his attitude, not least in relation to the budgetary agreement that the Labour Party has taken on the initiative vis-à-vis the middle parties, in terms of the defence and the underbalance with which the Defense struggles. The Defence Minister himself said in Oslo Military Society a short time ago that the deficit was between 10 and 20 billion kroner. It is clear that with such a disparity you can start asking questions about whether you can trust those who are going to do the job, when the majority of the majority of the population does not provide the defence with resources that are proportionate to the objectives you are also drawing up. General Frisvold has said that you might have to cut NOK 2 billion each year in operating costs to balance tasks and resources on the one hand and investment and operations on the other. I therefore wanted to get the representative Kosmo to elaborate here on what kind of thinking one is doing about the forthcoming negotiations between the Workers' Party and the government parties on the future of the Defence, and on the resource use and the resource priority to enable one to rely on those who are going to do the job. And is one willing to have a slightly different attitude from that of the Labour Party in financing the peace-keeping and peace-making operations abroad in relation to national defence, which partly contradict each other in terms of competition for resources?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e621	If someone thinks it's going to be possible to collect NOK 10-20 billion, which is an under-cover compared to a certain assumption that applied some years ago, by saving on the operating expenses, they're wrong. It's simply impossible. What needs to be done is to go in and look at the Defence Operations Organisation, the defence's ambitions and the defence's organisation and structure and adapt it to today's economic reality. You don't have to have that much panic compared to the assumptions you see in 2016, when we're in 1999, for one thing I can say with a hundred percent certainty: the world isn't going to look like that in 2016 as we today assume it will. The defence's tasks change from year to year, and the defence's challenges change from year to year. You have to be concerned about making the right arrangements tomorrow for the investments that are being made, and here it is almost quite a lot to go on. I trust that if the Storting is able to give the Defense and the Defence staff the opportunities they need to meet these challenges, and we turn down our ambitions in relation to what we want, it will be possible to maintain both an invasion defence limited to one part of the country and a high commitment to the international tasks. However, this presupposes that the Storting must assume responsibility for additional financing of the operating costs of the international tasks themselves if it is decided to use this resource. And then we all get to hope that we gradually develop such a good security policy profile and effort on what we do, that conflict resolution by military aid becomes something that belongs to the past and not to the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e630	The government has reduced two selections to look at Norwegian security policy. The key issue with regard to investment and the use of defence equipment was that time was given to consider what the advice they made was actually about — instead of Ludvigsen’s concern that not everyone is automatically willing to punch out. The point is well in the first place to figure out what to actually defend yourself against, and how to do it. But that's not what I took the word for in relation to Cosmo's posts. It was a strange conclusion for one who is the head of the Storting Control and Constitution Committee, and who should initially be one who loves to control all the underlying agencies and all the departments. However, I understand well-interpreted what the point is: to review the public sector in such a way that it is safe to use people – perhaps the most important resource in the public sector – but also to spend money in such a way as to get the highest possible service output out of them. An important challenge then is to see if the public sector is actually as inefficient as many would like it to be. I think there are some myths about this. We have e.g. compared health services in the United States to public health services in the Nordic countries, and it appears to be 25 pst. of the money in the privatized health care system in the United States goes to administration, while 6-7 pst. of the money in the Norwegian healthcare system goes to administration. Maybe it's too much anyway! And that's obvious need, for example. in the hospital sector, in order to manage in a completely different and efficient way, so that patients are properly managed. The big challenge I think is that the Workers' Party, SV, and perhaps even the Centre parties are facing, is to meet the privatisation wave that we see coming in many areas of the public sector, with a real willingness to convert and with a conversion program that also provides the opportunity to divide into different units – autonomous units, more power to the employees. Is it e.g. thoughts about which Jørgen Kosmo and I could cooperate?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e641	Just in such a job as both Kristin Halvorsen and I, with responsibility for Stortingen's control activities, we should be concerned that the control and audit activities are carried out in the simplest, most sensible and most structured way. I get bored when Equation officials tell me that they spend a third of their day making suggestions for the business plan for next year, the second third to report what they did yesterday, and the last third to actually do the job they're assigned to. Although this is at the forefront, it shows in many ways the situation we have come into, namely that we are making a lot of demands for reporting and control, without considering the consequences of the job to be done to the Norwegian population, i.e. those who are entitled to service production. I am sure that if we were willing to discuss other ways of resolving this, it would be possible for us to modernise and streamline the public sector which made the privatisation debate a non-debate. Everyone would then see that establishing two and three-part systems, where something should be public and something should be private, will actually lead to more administration and less service production when this is gradually put into system. For a small country like Norway, with 4.5 million people, with all the limited human resources, it would be entirely Galileotic to go in for a policy that led us to split up the poor little welfare society that we all have and that has a good quality, but, after all, everything is limited in several parts where we had to create administrative systems to control and review.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e648	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The President is also uncertain whether Galimatia is a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e653	The debate that preceded this debate has gone off and that has been further developed in the change of lines is interesting. The fact that the Labour Party through its leader and his article in the Newspaper a little since has started this with a review of the public sector and of, among others. The county council as a governing body, we greet the Progress Party with joy. The fact that we are in a way ridiculed by the representative Brustad for presenting a Document No. 8-proposals again, I will include that in the purchase without any problem. I will also take that with me after this word change. But what is important is that this proposal is there and that we can take those assessments. We don't have to make a quick decision, but we can make a decision that is about to further develop the ideas that are already contained in this Document No. The 8 proposal to shut down the county. If we were to get the Storting to make explicit decisions on the political and administrative tasks of the county council, it would be a step in the right direction. An attempt was also made by the Progress Party to extend the mandate of the selection working on part of these matters to the political part of the county. There was a vote in the Stortinget. But could we now have a decision here in Stortinget in connection with document No. The 8 that goes on this, we would go one step in the right direction. It is clear that it is important that a person takes these assessments as to whether the public sector is efficient enough, whether it is rational enough, and whether it provides the best services and what users need. I think it's a little exasperated when SV especially, but also parts of the Workers' Party, talk about this privatisation as if the privatisation from our side is the goal of the policy. It isn't. And it's not privatisation of the health supply that's the starting point. What we're talking about is the production of health services paid by the public. And that's why I get a little bored and stated when I feel that the Workers' Party must have some kind of reading difficulties or dyslexia, when we try to tell time and time again that it's not about using the private wallet to buy out any kind of health queue, and when we find out again today that the Leader of the Workers' Party claims this – which is not right, because what is the Advance Party's policy in this area is that the public should pay for the health supply, and then we should buy these services either from public producers or from private producers. That's why I'm getting a little tired, because then we're not actually discussing the objective of our policy, simply how we create services that are for the benefit of the user. The point is that both the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Centre Party and the Right want to use the same public resources to provide the best possible health for the users and to provide the best possible education for the users. What we disagree about is another debate. We don't have to add to each other the wrong points, but we have to take that debate. That's what we're talking about, is what kind of a way we can do this. Do we resort to the method that the Workers' Party has always sworn to, namely, that this should go through public service production, through framework financing, or could one be willing to think of new things, that one might use price finance, and that one might also be able to buy services from others other than the public?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e664	Norway may be the main industry, oil and gas, undergoing major changes. In the operator companies, there is restructuring with the aim of reducing the number of additions. The supplier industry is worn out with empty order books, lay-offs and lay-offs. The industry survey shows that the offshore sector will have to reduce its activity by up to 60 pst. Therefore, the combined oil and gas-related activity is causing a much faster decline than previous forecasts would lead to. In addition to permits and cancellations of 3000 – 4000 added so far, these developments may affect 25 000 – 30000 jobs. Since it became clear that this situation would arise, the Government has closed its eyes to developments. Although the Government has now reluctantly promoted the framework improvements imposed on it by a majority on the Storting, it does not seem that the seriousness of the situation has reached the government offices. That only half of the sentence in the census is dedicated to this situation, says most of the things about where we have the government in this case. On the one hand, one must be allowed to be disappointed in the government’s attitude and action – or rather a lack of such action. On the other hand, we know that these parties chose lower activity in this sector. It may not be so strange that no more has been done to improve the situation. If not serious for the Government yet, the situation is getting serious too many thousands added. Permits and cancellations are becoming part of everyday life along the coast. I hope and believe that the Stortninget will be able to put in place the framework conditions that are needed to reverse the development. In spite of this, it will take time for new projects to be in production. We know that there are still large oil and gas resources on Norwegian soil, and that this industry will play an important role in the future. A rapid reduction now and a long period without new assignments will pose a major risk of loss of skills and reduced competitiveness. It is therefore important to maintain competence, so that this industry is at risk when new projects are re-started. One should therefore allow money for a package of skills and training within the labour market seat. The use of these funds should take place in cooperation with industry and local learning institutions. In such a package of measures to maintain and develop skills, one must indicate the regions that are affected by the drought. Of course, if a change of rules is needed to achieve this, it does not have to stand in the way. It is important that the companies that become the framework are able to hold on and take in new apprentices. Most of the sites that become frames are corner stone companies in their local environment. Often most local businesses are based on the same basis. A reduction in the activity of these offices is therefore very strong in some municipalities and districts. In my view, the state, or the big community, has a great responsibility to help the municipalities in question. The state must participate in local counter-cyclical measures. In most municipalities that become the framework, there is little capital to raise for investment in new industry or industry. The most remote districts should be given state-owned conversion status. The government tool, such as SND and SIVA, must make one available to the municipalities in question. Government investment to be made in construction should be advanced. Projects in these districts should be given priority over projects in parts of the country with press problems. Most of the measures I have mentioned here can be implemented without extra privileges. However, there is a need to get the relevant tool in place. It is therefore important that the Stortinget now makes use of the need to manage the State budget, so that the necessary measures are put in place. I would like to end this article by giving praise to the Government – a sincere compliment for their proposals on the independent right to maternity leave for fathers – and I hope that it will be lifted up in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e687	«The government is working for a social development characterized by a solid value foundation rooted in our national and Christian cultural heritage», was the introduction to the Common Era. And it's called: ‘At the entrance of a new millennium, work is being carried out to preserve the basis of life on the planet, peace and human rights and reconciliation between the peoples of the world in the first place.’ The central government has set values and people's rights on the agenda - it's great. After two years of government, we have seen many things on the agenda. Family policy is one of them. As I see it, family policy has never been as much discussed as in the last two years. For the Christian People's Party, it's important to put your family's needs in the center. The introduction of cash support for young children’s parents has been an important issue for parents to be able to spend more time with their children. At the same time, it is important to give a real choice between cash support and kindergarten that those in need of kindergarten have access to it. The government has announced that there is still a commitment to the development of kindergartens, and that one will present a growing-up message with strategies for full needs coverage and further quality development in kindergartens. During the year 2000, it is estimated that there will be full childcare coverage for children over three years of age. It was also said that one would propose the introduction of self-right to birth money for fathers. It's an extension right to strengthen the father's ability to care for the smallest children. Fathers will now be entitled to birth and adoption money, based on their own ignition and job breaks when mother goes to work or education after birth. This means that there must be a need for care for the release of the father’s right to maternity allowance. But it gives parents greater opportunities to share care for their children. Prior to gender equality policy, this is an important measure. Research shows that when fathers get good time with their children when they are young, it strengthens contact between children and fathers, both in the short and long term. This is important. Child welfare will be extended to 18 years of age, and the census has also been reported. Today, child - resistant people stop at a time when their children are expensive to parents. Most of them still live at home and are elephants in high school. So now we're proposing a regulation that's better suited to today's situation. Both the only parent association and the Women's and Family Association want child welfare to be 18 years old. After studying the device to raise the child's pension to 18 years closer, I have no doubt that the suggestion of the Regeringen is a good measure. Jan Petersen said in his post that we have proposed to remove the care allowance, but what is the reality is that the care allowance is integrated into the child's care allowance. Children’s social security rates are increasing for the first and second child. Today, the non-taxable parents are paid the care allowance in cash. The care allowance has the same purpose as the child's pension, simply to compensate for the extra costs you have incurred in caring for children. Inclusion of the child-care allowance is a simplification of the way the state transfers money to the families with children. With the Government's proposal for conversion, a slight reduction in transfers to families with children for about a year will be achieved. NOK 108 per year. children in the month of the first child. But then the economy of the families of children will be strengthened for a period that many people experience as extra demanding. It is not that teenage parents have finished paying on mortgages and student loans. Many parents feel that teenage spending is much bigger than one would have expected in advance. And I've heard a lot of parents say that they like to do a hundred times less a month to keep the child's pension to 18 years. I hope that this will get a lot on Stortinget. The government is investing in culture. For the Christian People's Party, this is important. I want to highlight in particular the value of the marking of the thousandth year change. This millennium will give us a reference point with completely new dimensions. For this very reason, I share the Government's goal of creating conditions for the whole society in all parts of the country to participate in a living and diverse cultural life. Art and culture are an essential part of a modern welfare society, which represents important values for quality of life. The Christian People's Party will help create cultural meeting places in the local environment. We are pleased that the Government will now develop an investment plan for cultural buildings. The mark of the year 2000 will be for inspiration and innovation and to create a sense of values in relation to our own culture. The marker should also reflect that we are a multicultural society. An inclusive and caring society we want in the Christian People's Party into the next millennium.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e709	We who sit on the Stortinget have a great responsibility. We are making decisions that not only concern us who live in society today, but which will largely concern generations that come after us. It's quite obvious in terms of how we manage the wealth that oil gives us, and when we deal with matters that have to do with popular fear. It also applies to environmental issues. The bigger the environmental problems we create, the bigger the bill will be the future generations will have to pay to clean up after us. We who make decisions today have a moral duty to take responsibility for future generations. Maybe it's not always so popular, for example. saying no to spending all the oil money today, but that is absolutely necessary. It may not be very popular to increase the electricity charge by 2.5 cents. But if we're going to solve the environmental problems, we're going to have to reduce power consumption. Then we know that price is an instrument that works. The goal of the electricity charge is not for people to pay higher electricity bills. According to an EU consultant, Kjell Kruger, in a headline in the Daily Newspaper on 6 October, most can save the increase in electricity charges if, for example, they do. lowers the indoor temperature by one degree. The goal of the electricity charge is to make people save electricity. This is why it is an important environmental measure, which is why it is also good for generation accounts. When we in the Labour Party demand a stronger commitment to school and higher education, it must also be seen from a generation perspective. To invest in school and higher education is to invest in children and young people — it is to create a basis for future jobs. I would particularly like to point out three areas in which we can get a better budget if we get to an agreement between the centre and the Workers' Party, three requirements that are not going to do everything perfectly, but that will be important measures to do it better. Firstly, it is now high time to start a free lending scheme for school books combined with scholarships. Today, each student or parent has to put out their wallets with perhaps $4,000 – $5,000 for school books and other equipment. For families with two or more young people in high school, there may be a problem with spending. I participated in some school elections this fall, and I can promise that this is a matter that really engages young people. Many of the universities and colleges have been financially through a rough period of time. They have managed to save money, but there have been more than two things: the provision of education for students and research. Half of the Norwegian youth are seeking higher education — there is nothing reserved for the elite. Many people spend years in education, and they earn a personal debt over the years. Then they must be able to expect that there is quality of the training they take. The proposal put forward by the Bondevik Government for the year 2000 also includes a real cut in higher education. If we are to ensure that Norway is still able to offer people a good education, we are to recruit researchers to work at universities and universities, we need to strengthen higher education. But the students don't just have to read, they have to live too. The largest expenditure item for most is rent. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that we need to increase the allocation for the construction of reasonable rental homes for young people. In concrete terms, we propose that 1000 student homes be built for next year. It's more than twice as much as the government has proposed. The crisis we are now seeing, especially in Oslo, shows that there is a need for a much more active housing policy here in the country. All three cases — free schoolbooks, more for higher education and more cheap rental homes — are good measures to invest in youth and education. Then we'll see if the central parties really want to cooperate with the Workers' Party. I hope so, not because this will give us a budget that is perfect, but because it will be better – better for future generations, better for us young people today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e733	We are facing a new millennium, and every policy must be put into its time frame. It requires that we present an answer to the challenges we see today, and in the future. The traditional distribution policy has been guided by the tax haven by the fact that it is taken from the rich and given to the poor. But in a society where our individual knowledge, attitudes and skills mean more and more, moving money does not help. Individual knowledge and abilities cannot be distributed in the same way as income and wealth. The challenge ahead is to give everyone the best possible starting point. That's what should be the country's most important task. The future will be marked by rapid changes created by new technologies and ever-new conditions in a globalised world – a development we cannot choose from. If we don't have the ability to take these challenges, we're no longer going to be able to create security for the population. Norway needs to be made robust to face these changes. We need to create a good and safe economic foundation, and we need reforms in a number of areas. Most of this applies in the municipal sector. We need to modernise Norway, modernise the public sector in a number of areas, not least in the health and care sector. Right will ensure the welfare society through change. We want to change, improve and adapt welfare systems to a new reality and demands of new generations. We want to change to keep going. Personal responsibility and competition are important prerequisites for the welfare society. For the Right, the central objective of welfare policy is the individual’s security. Freedom of choice and private supplementation are important to ensure well-being. The health problems cannot be solved by money alone. There is a need for far-reaching reforms in a number of areas. Today's Business had an interview with the Health Minister a few days ago about the budget deficits in hospitals. There was a study in disclaimer and a good illustration of the problems of today's organisation of hospitals. The health minister’s opinions are very striking in relation to one of the main health problems, namely that responsibility between the different levels of administration leads to disclaimer of responsibility and gambling between the state and the municipality. People are tired of the issue of who's responsible, of disclaimer and blackmail between administrative levels. Local democracy is misunderstood when the fragmentation and pulverisation of responsibilities in health care leads to chaotic conditions and unworthy conditions. This is a policy The Government together with the Workers' Party must take responsibility for it. The right will require the State to assume responsibility for hospitals in order to clear up unclear responsibilities. The responsibility for the hospitals must be placed where it belongs, at government and big business. Restricted means will always be a scarcity factor. We can't afford to get out of the problems in Health-Norway, but we can organize the healthcare system so that we get more out of every penny. For years, the right has been driving the development of new instruments such as input-driven funding, free hospital choice, waiting time guarantees and patient rights. Some of the instruments have been properly implemented with good results, but they need to be further developed to have full impact. A natural consequence of these changes is that hospitals organise themselves differently from before. The next natural step is to open the health market to several actors. Once the policy priorities in the health sector have been achieved, when the functional distribution between hospitals, control mechanisms for the quality of services and public funding are in place, it is less important who owns and operates hospitals. Private operators must be allowed to develop and operate hospitals. Competition for good quality health and care services that are cost-effective will serve patients and society. Competition is not an objective but an instrument for better quality. Hospitals need greater freedom to be managed more professionally. It is gratifying that the Government of the Throne signals that it will allow for a greater degree of hospital freedom. If we do not implement system changes in the health and care sector, I am afraid that the result will be a two-way street, where those who can afford to pay for private services do so either in Norway or abroad. It can't be on the right. There is a high risk of public supply and the general principles of health policy because the public is unable to cope with competition. It's no longer a question of whether we want competition. The competition's there. The system conservatism to which the Government and the Workers' Party, in part, are struggling threatens well-being. Competition provides more well-being by making better use of resources and improving the quality of care for the elderly and in hospitals. Many live with a notion that competition for patients is immoral and unethical. It's not. But it is immoral and unethical to hold on to a system conservatism that increases the queues in front of hospitals and hospitals, and that prevents the efficient use of society's resources. And I look forward to the government's announced initiative on a broad discussion of the value base in the health and care sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e763	After almost eight hours of the treaty debate, we must admit that so far the debate has brought little new. Apart from Thorbjørn Jagland, who opened the day, very few have managed to raise their eyes and use the day today to address the overall issues we face. In my opinion, a debate like this should be the most likely opportunity for us to rise a little from everyday life and address questions that we do not work with on a daily basis. That the Progress Party is not concerned with international issues is not new to us. The Progress Party has no solutions and does not want to come up with solutions to the enormous global challenges we face. We've been hearing that for years from Hagen, but I must say I was unbelievably disappointed when the Vice President of the Storting and head of the Defence Committee, Hans J. Røsjorde, also got on that line earlier today. He said something like it's good that someone is also interested in the problems at home and not just in the international issues. It is frightening that the second largest party in the world has no perspective on the global challenges. In addition, there are no differences between international and national issues. With great interest, I noticed that Jimmy Carter, who has been on Oslo visits, said on TV last night that poverty problems need to be solved both nationally and internationally. The international community has enormous challenges. Tonight, the planet's population came no. 6 billion to the world, and I read in the newspaper today that it has been decided that it happened in a hospital in Sarajevo. It probably doesn't matter exactly where he was born, but at least it's worth noting that just since our parental regeneration was born, the earth's population has tripled, from about 2 billion to 6 billion people. And we have no solutions to the major poverty problems we are facing. These are perspectives that anyone should grasp. Here, too, we have enough problems to deal with. It should be interesting for all of us that we have just left behind a choice where less than 60 pst. used the voting rights, and among the youngest voting rights, only one of the three went to the ballot boxes. Another major challenge here in domestic areas is that the differences between people are growing. Once again, in a debate in Stortinget, we have had occasion to compete in whom is most in agreement with Tony Blair. One would kind of think that it's about being related to a rich uncle in America, who someone each sees that a must inherit. It is a pointless debate, the debate that prevails in Norway about who is more like Tony Blair. The question we should ask ourselves before such a debate is: What kind of Great Britain was Tony Blair's legacy? Well, it was a United Kingdom where public welfare and community had been gradually and systematically built up throughout the 1980s and 1990s. Other instruments need to be used in this country in relation to Tony Blair’s use in the United Kingdom. I hope we end the debate we've had so far on Tony Blair. For the Workers' Party, it is a general problem to have something done with the progressively greater differences between people. The Labour Party wants to expand public welfare, we want to strengthen schools and kindergartens, and we want to step up social housing. And if we're going to get to that, we have to take a little bit more from those who have the most. We can't keep people with tens of millions of income paying zero in taxes. Now the government has the opportunity to show in practice the suggestions they have made to smooth out the differences. Only cooperation with the Workers' Party can be a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e782	It was interesting to hear the introduction to the previous speeches, which probably had a need to announce their support to their party leader. But after Sverre Myrli started talking about Jagland is the only one who has lifted us out of the debate and talked about more visionary things, he begins on his own post, which completely falls into the folder for which the representative Myrli criticized everyone else in this room. But at least I want to inform the representative Myrli, who talked about Storting's Vice President Røssjorde in his post, about one thing: Røssjorde has not had his post, he only had a line in place. But he's going to have his post later tonight, so maybe Myrli will hear after then, then it might come a little more of what he wanted. However, I will return to the government parties, which repeatedly refer to their health and care efforts. But it's actually the Storting that has set the premise for what's happened in these areas. Unfortunately, it's not enough to talk about what you want to achieve, as long as you don't follow up with the appropriations that are needed to do something about it. The Progress Party shall have, inter alia: on a number of occasions, questions have been asked about the rates of the municipalities in relation to the old age plan. We have long suspected that the initiative as a proposal in this action plan for better care for the elderly is the construction of nursing homes and the depriving of health homes. And as I pointed out in my reply to the Minister of Social Affairs earlier this evening, a study has just been carried out that shows that this is about to happen. I hope that the Minister of Social Affairs will do as she said in her speech, and take hold of this development, so that there is now a real commitment to the development of nursing homes in Norway. I would also like to refer to another matter where it is very important to get the initiative started too fully. This is the mammography screening project to be made nationwide following a proposal from the Progress Party in this Chamber. In this area, unfortunately, things happen very late from the government side. There are several states that have not yet received this offer, and I hope that this will now come into place. I fully understand that it is important to put the number of health professionals in place, but I ask the question whether this is done in such a way that there is really a lot of pressure on the individual counties to get the staff in place. The size said when this proposal was adopted, that if necessary one would cooperate with the private institute in order to get this project in place. But the Storting and the Government are unfortunately leaving behind the necessary funds, so all women in this country do not have the same opportunities to get this offer. It is currently your own address or wallet that decides whether to have access to such an offer. Women in Norway cannot afford to wait any longer. And I will be allowed to refer to an article that was in yesterday's VG, which indicates that the journal of the Norwegian Medical Association writes that if the offer had been nationwide, 160 lives could have been saved by 2020. I will also refer to the following from that article: ‘Recently, a free mammography pilot project was completed for all women between 50 and 69 years of age from Oslo, Rogaland and Hordaland. Estimates show that if the survey had been nationwide, 4,500 years of life could have been saved from 1996 to 2020.’ We can't afford to wait any longer for the sake of those who are affected by this disease every year. In this area, I don't think the government is pursuing a solidarity policy with our sick. With regard to the government’s policy towards the sick and the elderly in this country, it has tended to increase its share of equity. Had it not been for this government to have been pressured by the Progress Party to go back on their proposals for, among other things. Increases in self-employment in the current year's budget would have hit the weakest in this country the hardest. We have come into a situation where many sick people in this country can no longer afford to pick up their medications at the pharmacy, because they have to spend their money on food. This is a development that cannot continue.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e803	A year ago, the situation for the Norwegian economy was worrying. The interest rate increased sharply, the oil price was record low, and the trust in the crown was weakened. No one particularly doubted that the situation at the time was serious. Instead, the question was focused on whether the central government was able to meet the challenges with appropriate instruments. Now, a year later, we have a debate on the throne of a healthy and strong economy, which gives us considerable freedom of action to give priority to important areas of activity. The government medicine has worked. The objective of lower interest rates and high employment has been pursued through tight budgets over the last two years. In doing so, the government has confirmed, despite its minority in Stortinget, governance also in counter-ground. Ensuring employment must remain an overriding objective. Although the unemployment rate is very low, we cannot imagine that some industries are tempting a rather uncertain existence, not least in terms of our shipbuilding and supply industry. Significant failure of the investment on the base due to low oil prices, and lack of order access for the yard industry create considerable uncertainty in many places in the country. I am therefore pleased that the Government takes this situation seriously. At an early stage, it announced measures to remedy the negative impact on employment and competence of this part of our industrial activity. This has been followed up in the 2000 budget proposal, where a number of measures are proposed and which should be involved and trigger increased activity on the base and new assignments to the yards. In the financial debate later in the autumn, we will have the opportunity to return to these measures. The Government has taken important initiatives. Now we have to expect that the companies on the base will also do that by expanding their activity, which in turn will give positive results for our land-based supplier industry. The Government's Energy Communication is now being discussed in the Energy and Environment Committee. The Communication is an important contribution to a comprehensive debate on Norwegian energy policy into the next century. The Communication takes significant steps to respond to the need for innovation in the energy sector on the basis of the objective of ensuring adequate power based on environmental premises. Energy consumption forecasts show significant growth over the next 10-20 years if no new grip is taken to slow this growth. I am therefore also pleased with the great commitment of the Government to ENØC actions and the commitment of alternative renewable energy carriers as an important complement to hydropower. The debate on gas power plants will be at the heart of the energy communication process. The establishment of gas power plants based on old and polluting technology is not a correct response from the centre parties. I have registered that someone is so keen on the construction of precisely these power plants that they are actually willing to ignore the recommendations made by the SFT regarding emission limitations. Of course, this must be rejected as unacceptable, which I am pleased that the Government has already expressed. We need a new energy policy for a new era. The Government has taken important initiatives, and the Storting has now a golden opportunity to take the right decisions for an environmentally and future energy policy. Finally, it's a cross of thought that in the middle of our well-being and with a strong economy that gives us great space for action, the world is fading beyond our borders. It is important to stress that this freedom of action also entails a significant responsibility in a global perspective. War and hunger are shaping up more and more parts of the world, and it keeps getting us closer and closer to life. It's enough to refer to our neighborhoods in the north, and not least to the dramatic situation that characterizes the African continent. I was therefore pleased that the representative Myrli raised the debate a notch, up to the level that a throne debate should be at, where we can manage to look a little beyond our own, nurturing everyday life to people outside of ourselves who live in great distress every day. International solidarity should more closely involve us all, regardless of party political affiliation. The Trontale strongly emphasises its willingness to do just that, and I am therefore pleased with the plan of escalation that has now been put forward for future assistance to the poorest of the world's society, and the consequences it has had in the form of a significant increase in aid to the Government's proposals for the state budget. The Norwegian wealth and prosperity challenge everyone independently of the party to responsible action in the face of a tragic situation in the world around us, in the face of war, hunger and persecution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e836	At the beginning of a new millennium, it is important to have a perspective on what to focus on and prioritize. In the census, this was underlined by the fact that the work of preserving the basis of life on the globe, peace and human rights, and inter-world inter-presence is fundamental to the government's work. But as Today's Business wrote in the Leader's Commentary after the Common Era, it doesn't hold up in tumultuous words unless the words are followed up with actions and economic priorities. I want to focus on two themes: human rights in my own country and the work to reduce violence against women and children. The majority manages the law on strengthening the position of human rights in Norwegian law in the spring, and made a number of demands on the work to achieve the objective of strengthening the individual’s legal position. In order not only to be words, a group asked for the Foundation for Human Rights to be strengthened in order to be a free-standing and advisory body within information, education and competence in the field to assist the authorities. It seems to me as if it is taking concrete steps to follow up the Storting's clear expressed claim in this area. I am well aware that the Government is working to provide an overarching action plan to promote human rights in Norway. But the Justice Committee was gathered that a professional environment had to be built up in this area, and considered it quite natural that the Institute for Human Rights was given this responsibility. With the background of this setting and the Government's attitude to the question of human rights both in the Adultås Declaration and now in the Common Era, it would have been reasonable that the Institute for Human Rights had all been strengthened. It is important now to build structures within this area. It's time for us to take on board the fact that we have a credulity problem in many contexts, both at national and international level, when the distance becomes too wide between the political profile and the practical realities. It requires not only goodwill, which the Government has just displayed, but action. Only through action can we strengthen the competence of Norwegian society in all the different areas that make decisions for individual people in our country. The Freedom of Speech Commission, which has just presented its report, highlighted three fundamental considerations: truth, democracy and the individual's free right of speech. If we are to strengthen these important and fundamental democratic values of Norwegian society, we need competence and a structure of construction so that these competences benefit people and authorities. These priorities should not wait for new, long distributions to the Stortinget, for the Stortinget has all been very clear here. So over to the second theme I would like to address. In the spontaneous Question Time in January this year, the then Minister of Justice Aure promised to seize the home elections and the great darkness valleys that are in this area. A group of Justice Departments has asked for a public selection to be set up to look at the problem. The government has chosen to use a state secretarial selection to look at new actions, but nothing has happened in retrospect. There is a general perception, both of those added to justice, health and social services, that there is great darkness when it comes to family power. Both individually assessed and collected from a societal perspective, the family authority today appears to be a very serious problem. The Value Commission found in its report that we know too little about the power of the world, the sexualized power, child abuse and the power of institutions. The Bergen police districts have prepared a report on measures against family elections in their districts that describe the problems, including: a number of constraints between different public administrations in order to reduce home government. The media image of the last few days makes it clear that the authorities need to be able to see the light of the sky. We cannot allow that. Norwegian girls with a migrant background are sent to their parents for forced marriage. This is contrary to our legal opinion about choosing life's partners. It's not enough to point out that the situation of immigrant women is going to be more remarkable, as was said in the census. We must actively distance ourselves from the authorities and put in action. It is not enough to demand that leaders of the religious communities to which these groups belong should distance themselves from the problem. We as authorities must address the problem. Thus, the power of the world against women and children must be placed on the agenda, as the Stortinget has pointed out in other contexts. We can't, as a state of law, figure out that the power that happens in the private space is going to evolve. We can't in a society where gender is equal, and based on our human dignity, we can't find that happening. Therefore, we need to see the search light in this important area. We need harmonious and secure growth conditions for children and self-confidence for women to master their rightful place in society. We can't go into a new millennium without putting this on the agenda and giving it the high priority. I expect the government, which sees family policy as high, to take on board, and to do something about these challenges immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e853	Johan J. Jakobsen today gives a maximum original definition of the terms «centre policy» and «centre government» in the Dagbladet: ‘If, in the course of three budgetary proceedings, we agree with Frp and Right twice and once with Ap, it underlines the independence of the government in relation to the traditional blocks of Norwegian policy.’ This is, of course, turning reality completely on its head. The government depends on either the Labour Party or the Right Party and the Advance Party to be able to sit in government. Yes, the government can only control the premises of the blocks. Is it so that block independence and winging are synonymous terms for the center parts? In fact, while budgetary cooperation last year with the Right and the Advance Party resulted in nearly DKK 7 billion in tax reductions, budgetary cooperation with the Workers' Party this autumn could provide tax incentives of several billion DKK. While EU countries, our major trading partners, are engaged in reducing taxes and incentives for business start-ups, the central parties and the Government will now be forced to pursue a policy in the opposite direction through enhanced tax and tax policies, after two years of budgetary cooperation with the Right and the Progress Party have led to lower interest rates, lower prices and lower unemployment. Block dependency, cheers Jacobsen. Wingling and unforeseeable about the economic framework conditions for Norwegian business is a more correct and effective description of what is now happening. Citizen voters have good reason to be disappointed. Last year at the Christian People's Party national meeting earlier this year, Bondevik took the aim of becoming the leading party on the bourgeois side. The election of the Christian People's Party should be disappointed with the change of course in the social democratic direction that is now taking place. And it seems absolutely incomprehensible to me how the Left can be involved in this anti-business journey. The Trontal provides a clear overview of the Government’s policies, but does not contain a strategic approach to addressing important challenges in education, health and business policy. This creates the impression of a government characterised by governance rigour after the cash support reform has now been implemented. Or is it, in fact, that the government parties have now recognised that the Adult Declaration is inappropriate as a governing document, that the most important thing for the Government is to cling to the taboo rights and administer the policy of a political majority in the Grand Duchy at all times imposing it? Is it irrelevant to the Government whether it pursues a social democratic policy or a civil policy? Greater demands must be made for a government than that. Not least in areas relating to Norway’s relations with other countries, Europe and the world community, it is not good enough to have an administrative administration with a day-to-day policy. This is a matter of particular concern in two areas. The EU will undergo significant changes in the coming years. Eleven countries negotiate whether membership, the single currency is under way and a common defence and security policy has implications for Norway. As one of the few countries in Europe outside the EU in the foreseeable future, it is necessary to ensure the further development of the EEA Agreement in order to prevent the agreement from becoming static. How does the Government ensure that we can be at the forefront of EU processes to help Norway gain influence before EU directives are adopted and incorporated into the EEA Agreement? And how does the Government contribute in advance to Norway not being marginalised in defence and security cooperation in Europe through NATO cooperation? The second area concerns the initial phase of the new WTO rounds. The various press releases recently have created great confusion as to what is the Government’s strategy in the forthcoming WTO negotiations. The Norwegian economy is dependent on international trade. It will therefore be in the Norwegian interest that the mandate for the negotiations be made as broad as possible, thereby increasing our chances of being implemented in important areas for Norway. Through previous rounds, we have committed ourselves to reducing internal support schemes for agriculture. Then it becomes more than strange that the government is playing out defensive agricultural interests in advance of the negotiations. The fishing industry also has important district functions, and Norway is a leading country in the export of fish products. It cannot be in the Norwegian interest that offensive areas linked to increased market access for fishery products should give way to defensive agricultural interests. So I ask you, what is the government's strategy in the WTO rounds?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e873	At the turn of the millennium, it is natural to stop a little, settle the status and make adjustments in relation to the road ahead. The Swedish Social Democrats and Prime Minister Tage Erlander were once asked if the politics of social democracy had made people happy. He said: "It's not our goal to make people happy. Our goal is to create a dance floor so that people can dance their own lives." And I have to say that what matters most to me is that we still haven't managed to create a society that includes and takes care of all those who are weaker in our society, so that they can function as equivalent. We live in the richest corner of the world. Most people are doing very well. But we know that there are large groups in this country who do not benefit from the arrangements that others of us take for granted – young people who do not have a job or a school place to go to, older people who do not have the security that both public agencies and family make up, people with a background from another country that does not get work because they are called Mohamed, and who experience being treated as second-class people. As politicians, we must create room for all people, and our attitudes must be based on the traditional values of freedom, equality and solidarity. We've created a social security system we're proud of. But we have to ensure a more fair distribution. That is why I take what has been said that the Government is joining forces with the Workers' Party and grasping the possibility of a fairer distribution policy and a fairer tax system, so that opportunities are improved for children and young people. In fact, the Labour Party is somewhat disappointed that the Government has such low ambitions regarding labour market measures, making it more difficult to enter the labour market and further hampering necessary conversion and empowerment, not least for those along the coast who now experience empty order books. There is no need for long seagoing time in Norwegian policy to find that the provision of transport is a good means of engaging people and is a good means of regional policy. And that's not nice. In a country with long distances, with scattered settlements, far from our trading partners, and with large trade with the rest of the world, we depend on the proper functioning of the transport offer. I thought the government parties agreed on that when before the election in 1997, they joined with the Right and promised SEK 5.3 billion more for investment in wealth during this majority period than what was in the Workers' Party Road Plan. Now I hope that the breakage of the promises is over. Good transport and communication services are important if we are to continue to have a business life outside Oslo. We need to have good offers to make it possible to use the whole country. The Workers' Party will be committed to ensuring that businesses have good conditions and thus contribute to jobs and tax revenue. This is necessary in order to ensure a strong public sector, which remains the security that everyone should benefit from. The Labour Party does not have a majority in this Chamber. It is therefore important that the parties that see a strong public sector as important for everyone to have the services they need now merge. Only by that can we decide that well-being is distributed, so that everyone who needs it will get help in our country, regardless of the size of the wallet.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e891	On 12 November, a factory is opened for the production of the electric car THINK in Aurskog. Those who have driven the project deserve congratulations from the Parliamentary Chair. But also for other reasons I want to mention the electric car. The electric car is an example of its utility. Now it is no longer a matter of course that cars and aircraft can be built in Sweden, but never in Norway. We're doing what we want! There was a founder with money and progress, a willing assistive device with R & D resources and other start-up aid, and private investors who saw the possibilities for such an environmental product. That recipe can be used over and over again to create the innovation optimism of which much is needed. The car factory is a reminder that this possibility could also be lost. Risk capital subsided, and the company went bankrupt. Skeptics in the media and among politicians could release the mocker, as they did when some in the Center Party suggested that it would have to be possible to produce washing machines in Norway. Too many entrepreneurs have experienced the same thing when they have almost succeeded. We should consider why brave capital was needed from abroad to bring the electric car “our” to the starting line, with as abundant access to capital both on the hand of the state and in companies owned by the state. We should also consider why there is still resistance in public owned companies to profiling by driving Norwegian electric cars. We are hardly going to become a precursor nation in the use of an electric car if there is no more pride and positiveness associated with the “our” car. While the electric car success has been given a modest cover on business, advances to sell head offices out of the country have been covered to keep it going. It's strange that so little of the slot is devoted to the importance of keeping the head offices of our largest and most internationally oriented companies. But luckily, the drama of what's happening has awakened some. I agree with the heart of Thorbjørn Jagland when he says in his main post: ‘We play our opportunities if we do not take action to prevent Norway from being sold out piece by piece.’ I mean to be able to establish that there is a large majority in the Storting behind such a statement, at least when each of these pieces is called Hydro, Statoil, State Power, Aker, Norwegian Forest, DnB, Credit, Storebrand, Orkla. I noticed that Kjell Opseth has mentioned such small pieces as Dyno, Aker Maritime and Hydro Seafood as important enough to secure with Norwegian headquarters. I believe that measures against small sales of Norway should be included as point 1 in the list of the Labour Party and Centres agreed in the autumn budget negotiations. Maybe this becomes the most important point when writing the story. Because it could be too late in a year. Orkla and the two banks could have been run from abroad or even slaughtered. Having said that, I totally disagree with the claim of Jagland that this government is more passive than its two predecessors. Many of the main dams against foreign purchases were actively removed during their period. The uncertainty as to whether the Storing wishes to retain a negative majority of 1/3 of the shares in the Bank of Credit, as the Storing decided for a few months, is not created by this government. I expect the Workers' Party to confirm that the very effective dam will be maintained, and that the newspapers will thus be able to write about positive events in Norwegian business, such as the production of cars in Norway, and the need to improve the law on acquisitions. It seems obvious that today too much paper is being collected on too many changes of ownership, without the direction of the development that Igland is calling for. An important change will be to reduce the number of mandatory notification limits and introduce ‘full stop’ at each of these holdings, as we have it for the 10 pst limit in the banks. I think we need a new discussion about the way the state's ownership is exercised in the different types of companies. I have repeatedly called for a stronger social responsibility of the private people who own the most in this country. In particular, it applies to owners of corner stone holdings. It is also necessary to be able to apply the requirements to private owners to the State as their owner. Such requirements must result in Hydro Seafood and Dyna not being sold in such a way that the head offices are moved. Another area where I think the state should act in the same way as private owners, concerns the loyalty of the management to the owners. When managers of state-owned enterprises publicly criticise state ownership, and in some cases even put their shares out for sale, it is necessary to tighten them significantly. I am personally not a stranger to the fact that state ownership should be reorganised in a new way, for example. as in Singapore, where all holdings are held in a company under the Minister for Finance but with private capital ratios. Business freedom was great in this company, but within a clear societal objective.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e918	I think we all have a goal that the Norwegian welfare society should provide security for everyone and a fair distribution of the benefits we all have. After all, we are all aware that economic inequalities are a threat to the welfare community, because a minority can then fall outside and be excluded. The Labour Party is of the opinion that everything must be done to prevent the development of an economic inequality between population groups. No one should be excluded from the possibility of living a good life, and therefore welfare systems must cover and reach all. We know who they are, those who have difficulties in the welfare community. There are a number of families with young children, it's the only caregivers, it's immigrants and immigrant women, it's long-term unemployed, and it's youth without vocational training. In the message about Difference Norway that we are going to discuss later, we need to find solutions that are targeted at these groups. If not, we will not achieve the goals of the welfare society, with benefits for all. Part of the challenges in the future will be to facilitate individual freedom while maintaining good Community solutions. It's not just a demanding thought, it's also an advanced practical exercise. Societal change demands reforms in many areas, and for us in the Labour Party, it is important to find new policy solutions that meet the new needs. It's important to know what's going on, and to know the society and the problems that surround us, before we outline the political reforms that can bring us closer to an equivalent society for all. I want to start from two areas that, in my opinion, require attention in relation to fair distribution. It's the family area and the cultural area. In Norway we have a rich cultural life and more leisure time than ever, and the happy message for me is at least that then people ask for more culture. The demand for more culture, and often different culture from what we are used to, creates new challenges in cultural policy. Globalisation creates major societal changes and gives us a diversity of new norms, lifestyles and cultural expressions. Some people see it as increased freedom, while others see it as increased insecurity. Another danger is that in the competition for leisure time, about their fantasies and perception of reality, the commercial entertainment industry has so far become a winner. The commercial entertainment industry does not aim to increase people's activity, creativity or creativity. Rather is the passivating, while it often gives a signified picture of reality. Therefore, it is important that the publicly supported culture is made available to the entire population. Today, there are large differences in the use of cultural services, and use depends on education and income. We also know that media are used differently by the population in relation to what kind of education and income you have, and what kind of age group you belong to. A shift in the social distribution of cultural experience opportunities contributes to increasing the knowledge gap in society. This is unacceptable in the view of the Labour Party. Therefore, it is an important objective of cultural policy to facilitate a wide range of cultural services at a high quality level in all regions of the country. This means that cultural goods are distributed fairly — socially, geographically and to all population groups. Sport means a lot to many of us. The objective is that everyone should have the opportunity to participate in physical activity where they live. And it keeps going on stairs if you live in the Government Building. A high level of public participation is still required to have an active sport – it requires the participation of non-governmental organisations and private actors. I am therefore pleased to say that the Workers' Party has joined the so-called Hofmo Halls, which are built to be a meeting point for sport, for culture and for youth leisure activities. For many years we have been talking about new family patterns and new gender roles in Norway. It is no longer new that very many women are at work, and many children and adults live in families that are not the traditional core families. Many men also take greater responsibility for home and family, and the way we set up our lives has changed as more services are offered. We have improved childcare facilities, long maternity leave and good support schemes for single dependants to mention something. But this is not enough. Many families feel that time is not running out, and there are many explanations that the timetable is often tough to deal with. Not only do we work more overtime, especially toddlers, but many also spend time commuting to and from work. More jobs outside the traditional normal working day between 8 and 16. There are also many parents who spend more time participating in children's lives than they did 25 years ago. It's great, but it's also taking time. To get better time together, I think it's right to improve work sharing in the home further. Two parents who spend time at home will give more time for their children along with their parents. The distribution of care tasks between men and women would no longer be a greater disadvantage in employing women of childbearing age than hiring men with domestic care tasks. I am therefore pleased that the Government proposes that fathers be given income rights, even if there are not entirely independent rights. For the Workers' Party, it is important to focus on collective solutions with flexibility in relation to the individual and family. Therefore, in the context of the extension of parental leave, we want the family to be able to take it for longer periods. The needs are individually different. Some want to be home when their children are young and will therefore prioritise longer parental leave, some want more time for the kids when they start school, some want shorter working days and others want a week off. The possibilities are many for what kind of needs the individual family will have more time for. The question does not relate solely to cash support or increased parental leave. This issue is also linked to better and more flexible kindergartens, better opportunities to take care of the job and greater opportunities to decide for yourself when to have a holiday, or to refuse to have overtime. The working party is concerned that we get full child care coverage, and that kindergartens cost less for parents. This is one of the points the Labour Party has highlighted when we are negotiating a budgetary settlement with the Government. But there is little point in increasing the grant to kindergartens if the municipalities do as the bourgeois parties did in Trondheim. They took the increase from the revised operating grant to kindergartens and put it for purposes other than kindergartens, which does not help the parents who pay dearly for kindergartens in Trondheim. I hope that the Minister for Children and Family will take over the city council in Trondheim and put the closet where it should be. It is important that kindergarten queues are not solved by the fact that the parent payment is so high that the parents cannot afford to have the children in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e946	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e949	It was very interesting to right at Grethe Fossum today. I think it's been a long time since I've heard such a good post without criticism from the Government or the Center Party. When it comes to the important thing that Grethe Fossum pointed out, simply a good family policy and a good cultural policy, I thought it was positive. I would argue that family policy has never received as much attention as it has in the last few years since the central government came to power. There has been a lot of discussion about family challenges in terms of giving parents more time with the young and in relation to kindergarten policy. Now it is probably too much to believe that Grethe Fossum could say something positive about cash support, but at least it has helped to create a proper debate on what we can do to give children and adults more time. I agree with Grethe Fossum that it is important to have good kindergartens and enough kindergartens, and that a few flexible schemes fit the needs of parents and children. But does not Grethe Fossum see that in recent years there has been an increase in family policy? Several kindergartens have been built. One now proposes independent dishes for fathers, child support up to 18 years old and a cancellation of the cash support – something I should not challenge her to say anything negative about, because there I know that we are disagreeable. In relation to cultural policy, there has also been an increase in investment since the central government came to power. Every year more resources have been allocated to cultural activities, and I agree that it is very important to provide good cultural services to all people, and that there will be a distinction in knowledge if access to culture is reserved only for individual groups. So the challenge in terms of commercial is that we get a culture that's adapted to everyone. It's important. I hope that Grethe Fossum has noticed the extra bet we've had in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e958	I can promise the representative Molvær Grimstad that it won't be a habit that I don't criticize the government, but I felt that since this was the last centenary of this millennium, I would very much like to look a little ahead and tell a little bit about the Workers' Party's view of what is going to happen in the year 2000. I think we all have a challenge with regard to family policy. What we haven't been good enough for in the period that has gone by is looking at kindergarten as a good offer for children and discussing what can be done better in kindergarten, and how it can be made cheaper. I can see that the government has invested in several kindergartens, but it has unfortunately been incredibly puzzled to report it. We all agreed that in the year 2000 we would pass a mile, then there would be no cows in the kindergarten, but then this government has in two years clear to prevent that goal from being achieved, without me having to discuss it more. I think it's interesting to compare numbers. I remind you that if we look at the pure cultural budget, that is, take away sport, press support and the other, we're going to allocate $3 billion for cultural action. It is about the same as cash transfer to families with children who receive cash support. I think it should be a cross of thought when this government talks so much about culture and child and family policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e967	The representative Fossum spoke warmly about the families of children and very warmly about how little they want to distinguish people, how eager they are to balance the differences in Norway. But what she didn't talk about was that taxes are also part of a cohesion policy, and the tax measures can have a direct impact on family policy. What is good family policy is not only determined by which transfers to families with children can be found on the expenditure side of the budget. The most important thing is that families have income, that they are given the opportunity to take responsibility for themselves. The notified tax tightening of unlisted companies will affect many families in connection with generation change in family businesses. I'm going to use a very specific example, because things kind of get a little bit closer. Then it won't just be theory. I have here a fax from a young heir to a family business. When her father and uncle died two months apart, they left two widows, six adult children aged 20-30 and two maritime related companies with a total of 220 employees. The Tall Woman of the Heirs writes: ‘On the basis of the assumptions and framework conditions we had then, we all chose to engage in businesses and take over to continue traditions and jobs. The announced tax consolidation means that these are now going to get $6 million. kr additional tax reinforcement if they are to take over the holding. The result is that they cannot afford it, because the entire bound capital of the holding is in production equipment. This is a tax policy that this government now wants to implement, and which the Workers' Party not only wants to support, but strengthens. How can family policy be defended based on the consequences of so many lost jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e977	This I thought was confusing. In fact, as a member of the Workers' Party, I have said something about having a tax tightening of NOK 2 billion, is not able to figure out what it will cost for every family in this country. It's actually going to be negotiated. If this family has got the thoughts out of Hill-Marta Solbergs and Thorbjørn Jagland's head about what they're going to do about this, I have to say that it will be something strange. The negotiations and the problems that will result for the individual family will probably come a little later. It is clear that our taxes, but also taxes, help regulate the income of families with children. The $2 billion that the Workers' Party has been planning to steal from the richest in this country, they're actually going to spend some of it on equalizing, so that the families that have the most difficulty will get it easier. I think this Robin Hood tactic is pretty good, but I understand that the Right will not steal from the rich and benefits to those who don't have that much. That's actually the Right Soul.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e984	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e987	After this year's speech and so far in the debate, it's a bit tempting to refer to the French author Balzac who lived in the 1600s. He said something like that little wit and a lot of power is what almost always has run the world. But I'll leave it for this time. For what is this debate really about? Yes, it is about ordinary Norwegian citizens and their everyday lives and the reasons why the majority in this room feel it is imperative to make the daily tasks of the citizens difficult. The government has made it a point that the difference between people is increasing, and that there is some form of moral duty for politicians to take from the realms and give to the lesser realms. It can't possibly mean a particularly good morale to imagine that their wallets are thin because Kjell Inge Smoke and other wealthy people serve on their labours, when the real cause of slim wallets is this sal's desire to tax the so-called rich, which can be defined as anything that can creep and go into society. I allow myself to express my great admiration for people who create jobs, people who are willing to spend their money on creating skills and investing in business development in Norway. It is not that jobs exist for their own part. They are either created by public or by venture capital. And there is little doubt as to which jobs are most important purely socio-economic. It therefore appears to be remarkable when the Government imposes a stronger tax on them with risk capital instead of reducing the differences by giving low-wage and ordinary people a real chance of tax relief. There are probably some politicians who have wandered the passages of this house a little too long to remember what are common people's everyday problems. There's probably a part out there, like that. Thirty-two-year-olds who were in a bad traffic accident and who are now located in an old home together with senil demente, who could imagine taking Jens Bjørneboe's comment on power: power means one thing – access to cause other pain. It is this assembly that, according to Johan Sverdrup, has been given all power. We are in this room who have the power to give Åse and other young people who are placed at home in old age, the possibility of a worthy life. It is the will of the majority that is lacking. It's also this hall that has the power to wear human brains in tiny pieces and put them back together after new patterns that we decide for ourselves. And it's done on time in today's school system. The school should actually prepare individuals to deal with everyday life with a good knowledge base, linked to their individual abilities and interests. But today's school system seems more like a machine that takes independent individuals into one side and spits bamsemums out on the other. Instead of having individualised education, the school system forces everyone into the same teaching framework with minimal flexibility. The Progress Party has several times proposed adapting teaching to the needs of the student. It can no longer be the case that students with a high level of competence in math have to destroy their motivation because they think teaching is too banal. Or that students who have problems with math should try to stick with something they don't understand because they're going to be in an average race. Of course, it's not that all students can get each of their teachers. But differentiating education so that everyone learns as much as possible is a achievable goal if we use our power to achieve it. I allow myself towards the end to take this opportunity to read a short poem that I learned at school not too long ago. It's from the old Edda. In a way, it might be a reminder to the Government that is now entering the forthcoming budget debate. There they know that the fate of many individuals is at stake. «A man of white courtesy and propriety must use it.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e1007	Government rates at school by actively inspiring innovation and experimentation and providing help for quality improvement and financial support to selected areas. Searchlights and actions are targeted specifically at secondary schools. A completely new study among teachers in West Agder shows that 80 pst. by primary school teachers at work. With so much comfort, working conditions cannot be very black. The government bets at school! A plan for 900 million. So the increase in kr over the next four years is 225 million. Extra in the year 2000. It's not down-priority. It is also not the status quo, but a strengthening, so it comes in addition to what has been invested in continuing training for teachers in recent years. This gives teachers the opportunity to develop the teaching role as educational leaders and to try out collaboration with other professionals who can take care of school assignments that teachers believe have taken time and power away from teaching and guiding students. This gives teachers the opportunity to have an initial leave scheme with pay for continuing training and accommodation in the workplace. It supports the continuing need for updating and new knowledge in the profession. This gives teachers the opportunity to develop concrete skills on the ICT front. If ICT is to become a natural part of the school's everyday life, teachers should know the tool better than the students, and also be able to use it in teaching. Update and training is now under way. This gives teachers the opportunity to try to distribute the hourly resource in a different way and achieve greater teacher density. The need for more adults per year pupils can be accommodated with flexible schemes with varying sizes of student groups. All of this is a considerable commitment to the teachers, and we know that the teacher means a lot to the student's learning and to a good school into a new millennium. Personally, I would like the teacher's organisations to be involved in promoting the positive. It is a challenge to be less concerned with calculating how little is given to each teacher, and rather focus on how the increase in funds can best be used in the most efficient way possible. The message must now be to strengthen the efforts of schools and teachers. Those who are engaged in teacher recruitment must grasp this. Optimism sells better than grievances. The Christian People's Party believes that the leadership of quality development in primary and secondary schools in the form of action programmes and experimental activities will be positive again in school. Local development can increase commitment without costing millions, and it gives the teacher faith in his own competence. Research is fundamental to the development of society in general. The government's draft budget relating to the research notification has been well received. The research fund is increased by DKK 1 billion, and the return of the fund can already benefit. Finally, the Church has a precarious need for more performances and not least for more funds for the temporary work. This is now improving on the temporary workers front, and it will help something about the situation around the churches. And finally, the economic foundation will come to order, we hope, for the Seaman Church. We are very pleased about that. Church and education are fundamental elements of our society. When the Government pursues a responsible economic policy, church and education must still have room for growth and development.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e1035	The situation in the shipbuilding, supply and offshore industries is at present very worrying. Aker Verdal is a corner stone company, not only for the municipality of Verdal, but also for most local communities and for the northern Tributes. This corner stone company is fighting for life today. Within six months, the Aker Verdal workforce will be reduced from 1,070 to 715. At the end of September, 350 employees received a letter of resignation in the post office and until the end of the year a further 250 will be permitted. For the whole country, a loss of between 25 000 and 30 000 jobs is feared in oil-related industries and the shipbuilding industry in the future. We realize that the supplier and offshore industries need to be transformed. It is not possible to maintain the record level of investment on a Norwegian base in recent years. However, in such a transition, the pace of transition needs to be adapted to the individual enterprise and community, so that they can meet the challenges with confidence that the problems can be solved. The fact that Aker Verdal now goes to the lay-offs and not the lay-offs is because they believe that it's coming a little further in time, and the challenge is therefore to keep up the competence, that is. the scale of the work, until the order situation resumes. According to Aker Verdal, it will happen within 12 – 18 months. In this situation, the labour market set must provide exceptional measures for further training of the workforce. The measures proposed by the Government in the budget are not enough to meet the needs of this industry. In doing so, the Government helps to create uncertainty for future employees and uncertainty in the management because it sees valuable and completely necessary skills disappear from the companies. In addition, the results are highly frustrating in local communities. It seems to me that the government has a lack of control and a lack of ability to see and to solve the problems facing this industry. The government can do something to get ahead of this and thereby create new hope for the many thousands who now feel that the future is insecure. For example, the Government may promote the following measures: 1st@item: inlistbox Call on oil companies to start developing the fields for which they have been granted a concession. Today's oil price means that many of these fields are now profitable. The companies in these fields, which are not willing to start now, should be clearly informed that, at the next round of tenders, they are providing with a disabled person. It can no longer be accepted that companies are training development pending even better tax conditions than the current one.2. The supplier industry itself must be given the possibility of expanding and extracting marginal fields on a Norwegian base.3. There must be a significant number of places under labour market measures, as proposed by the Workers' Party, and a separate package of measures must be developed to maintain and develop the competence of these industries. Also as proposed by the Workers' Party.4. The Government's proposed 100 million. kr for project-oriented technology development in the petroleum sector is joyous, but the amount should be increased further. Similarly, funds for development contracts should also be increased. In addition, for Aker Verdal, it is important that the State assumes a significant responsibility in relation to the development of deep water taps in the industrial sector in which Aker operates. Such a commitment is absolutely necessary for the overall industrial development that will and must come in this region. It must also be seen in the light of the fact that Norwegian Forest plans to build a cogeneration plant on Forest, a bet for which the Government unfortunately does not have the necessary understanding. I hope that the Government now in its further work is willing to meet the Workers' Party on the points that I have touched on here, and that should preferably be done by working together on the next year's government budget. In this way, the Workers' Party, together with the Government, will contribute to the maintenance of industrial employment at the highest possible level. This will help together to take responsibility for the safety of individuals and to ensure that local communities are able to exist and function, i.e. that there are safe and profitable jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e1069	The President noted that the regulatory time was soon running out and proposed that the meeting continue until speaker no. 37 is done. - It seems to be approved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e1074	Norway is in a unique position at the turn of the century. We have a national economic wealth that gives us a great potential to further develop infrastructure, education systems and welfare systems in an increasingly tougher competition in the international community. But mentality both in the population and in the political environment needs to change if we are to succeed. In Norway, where we have been used to discussing unemployment challenges, in the years to come, it will be a great challenge to provide enough labour for competitive business, education and care. The new challenge will be to encourage more people to stand longer in the labour market, to break down generation barriers, to create a more flexible labour market and to get a greater share of immigrants into the labour market. The pensions in popular security must be secured by this generation, we cannot leave the funding of the next decade's pensions to the next generation of taxpayers. Norway needs to develop an energy policy that takes account of our position as energy supplier and which is not primarily limited by seminar discussions from Nature and Youth. Norwegian school needs to take steps towards higher quality. It's going to be the world's best. We need to provide better education to meet the needs of those who fall through in today's school system. We need to ensure that universities and colleges can develop top-notch skills for the students, not least by making assumptions, among other things. in real science, those who are admitted to higher education are improved. We see from other countries that there is a completely different direction from what we tend to when we discuss politics here. In Spain, a conservative government has in a few years the power to bring the country economically to the north European level, with stable public budgets and stable prices. Finland now has the EU Presidency and is in the driving seat for a new policy aimed at Russia’s place in a new Europe. In Denmark and Sweden, the lower corporate tax rate discusses, not higher. And in Germany and the United Kingdom, social-democratic heads of government have taken over after conservatives, who have learned lessons from social-democratic mistakes in the past. In a joint document by Tony Blair and Gerhard Schröder, it is named among others. social democracy sometimes combines efforts to promote social justice with equality of outcome. The result was a neglect of the importance of rewarding efforts and responsibilities and linked social democracy to conformity and mediocrity, rather than encouraging creativity, diversity and quality. Labour input was increasingly taxed. Furthermore, the means of achieving social justice was linked to an ever-increasing level of public consumption, regardless of what was achieved, or the impact of the resulting taxation on competitiveness, employment and living standards. The latter, too, could be a line to Grethe G. Fossum, who claimed that the Right always in his soul was occupied by the rich. No, what is right is that the Right is concerned that more than the State must have capital to contribute to value creation and to invest in new jobs. During the Willoch government there was a more steady distribution of income in Norway, among others. because more people came to work. In Norway, the drafts point to a budgetary settlement between social democrats and the Government in the opposite direction to what their political traps in Europe are talking about. What we see in the contours of, is shaped by short-term internal needs, not by the long-term horizon. It is again the story of the blind who will lead it limp. A government that lacks a horizon as to where it will, shall lead a harm-rescue working party out of a distressing internal crisis mood. The outline of the settlement is based on a policy of distribution that points in a completely different direction from that of even the social democrats in Europe. The problems of the Labour Party after the elections have overshadowed the fact that the census was without the important new ideas about where Norway should be briefed. Mr Bondevik's team continues to respond to 'Commission' each time new problems are raised in the Norwegian debate. Such a government can probably live with the fact that the state budget as a whole has been stamped gray. Worse, when the throne number – the counterpart of the budget – is equally colourless. And evil it becomes when the government by choosing political bigami as a form of life, nor does it have any political course it will follow, but is satisfied with winging from side to side.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e1105	Representatives of the Government Parties and the Government have said that it is through cooperation with the Workers' Party that one can achieve a policy of reconciling the differences in society and fair distribution. We take this recognition seriously, accept to vote for the cash support of approx. NOK 3 billion, although we believe that this system is beyond the reasonable use of public money, and enter into negotiations to turn the policy away from the right and into the Labour Party's policy. The Labour Party will only stand behind a negotiating arrangement which, in fundamental areas, leads to reconciliation between peoples and ensures good public services within, inter alia, care, health, school, kindergarten and good arrangements for families. We do not intend to play any kind of games either for the gallery or as part of tactical manoeuvres in front of the upcoming elections. We want results where we can stand up and say to the Norwegian people: we have done this in cooperation with others to create a more humane society. In the field of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Labour Party and the Government Parties have, during this period, cooperated constructively on almost all the essential areas. But the government's budgetary cooperation over the last two years with the right parties has put certain leadership in an unfortunate direction that can now be reversed. I would therefore like to underline some areas that are essential for the Workers' Party. Social protection is the most important pillar of the welfare society. It is extremely important that the majority of population clearly state that this should also be the case for future generations. There are some who see themselves earned to doubt whether the popular security will continue to be people's basic insurance, among other things. in relation to pensions. Private operators on the insurance market and right-hand politicians appear to have an interest in raising this doubt. My party and I believe that dealing with the expenses of the people's fear is more a matter of attitude than of financial ability. The pension system in the public sector has two main objectives: first, to ensure that all pensioners have a minimum standard independent of previous income and payments before retirement; secondly, to ensure that pensioners have a standard of income that is proportionate to the income as active; Therefore, the development of the basic amount that forms the basis of the pension scheme needs to be regulated in such a way that the social security population has an income development in line with the employees it is natural to compare with. The Labour Party raised this issue at the last social security settlement and was given a majority in order to base the guidelines on the regulation of the basic amount. This is necessary to maintain people's confidence in the fear of the people. Furthermore, from 1 January 2000, a reintroduction of the low-wage sick pay must take place after the government parties, together with the Right Party and the Advance Party, have removed the payment of pay for those who earned less than approx. NOK 57 000. Then one has to cancel plans to claw off a contractual pension. Trade unions, through income policy cooperation and through contractual agreements with employers, have paid off wages and salaries in order to withdraw some of them into better pension schemes. One party may not put a line on concluded agreements! I believe that the government now needs to speed up the work they are required by Stortingen to create a system that protects large consumers of health and care services against cloudy trades. Many who have the population’s wealth as a basis for income have excesses. It is positive and, of course, follow-up on the implementation of comprehensive health and care reforms. Most of the reforms were either organized by the government of Jagland or put to death during this period. In this way, the central government and the Workers' Party have laid the foundation for a good development of Health-Norway. But I would like to point out one aspect that needs to be given greater attention: although we have engaged in some costly reforms, the economy of hospitals seems to be such that it does not ensure proper operation. It may appear that the effects of the adjustments made to input-driven funding put many hospitals and thus patients in a very difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e1138	Earlier today, in a line change with the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, I got a little hint that I had attacked him in an area that was not intended for me as head of the Defence Committee. I was almost attracted to the fact that I had not dealt with defence and security policy. That's what I'm going to fix in this post. And when the Foreign Minister sits here, it also gives me an extra loving occasion and incentive. In today's situation, we face a challenge in our relationship with Europe and the security policy aspect of this cooperation. We have, through a referendum, brought ourselves into a situation where we stand clearly outside, but where we are still in a clear dependency on NATO. So, in this balance, we're going to go further into the security policy challenge that's ahead of us. I have great faith that the Government will be able to find ways to find them as far as possible, in relation to the European security and defence cooperation that is developing. On the other hand, I am somewhat more in doubt if the Government will be able to maintain the absolutely necessary maintenance of our good relationship with the United States, because in the situation we have entered, we will still be as dependent on the United States as we were during the Cold War, as a security policy guarantor for Norway. With a safety-policy centre of gravity shifted away from our areas, this is no less important. It is therefore important that the Government and the Government in the development of policy in the field of security policy ensure transatlantic relations in a way that does not raise any doubt as to how we deal with the United States. Of course, that doesn't mean that you need to be flat for any initiative that might come from the United States, but it requires that we are awake and observant in our relationship to create the widest possible understanding of very special Norwegian needs, even in an uncertain future. There is no lack of description of uncertainty and unforeseeability. I would like to point out – although many people would say that this is to mention the past too much – the consequence of the Ottawa agreement and the mine protocol. It has implications for pre-storage, which is an important link for us in our relationship with the United States. As a consequence of the Ottawa Decision, the United States is developing anti-personnel mines which could correspond to the protocol concluded. But it will take longer than the deadline we have in relation to our pre-storage. The challenge will clearly lie on Norwegian hands. Therefore, it is important that we figure out how to resolve the situation we ourselves have brought ourselves into, so that we do not risk ending pre-storage as a result of careless handling by the Norwegian side. The CFE agreement is another important piece. In the final management that we are now facing, we are in the situation that the ceiling for how many armoured personnel vehicles we can have here in the country is reached, more or less. Taking home the vehicles that we use in our operations abroad will probably mean shelling up on this roof. At the same time, Russia is given the opportunity to increase the number in the flank from 580 to 2140 such vehicles. Then it must be a challenge for the Government to bring some balance into this, so that our leased armoured personnel vehicles are not almost at the frontier because you can't bring them in. It's a challenge that the government has to take inwards. In addition, I would like to point to the New Agenda, which was up earlier in the United Nations. Norway abstained from voting in favour of the New Agenda proposal at the last reading of the UN session. No other NATO country supported this resolution, and Norway and our foreign minister must endeavour not to do anything worse than he did last time, by abstaining. It would bring us into a rather hopeless situation as NATO countries if we were to be considered the nearest footnote country to this. I think that is some of the challenges facing the Government in our security policy relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e1153	The working party will continue to maintain the objective of maintaining the main features of the housing pattern, and then, of course, the creation of jobs in new growth industries such as tourism, new technologies, minerals, offshore and oil must form the basis for both stability and regional challenges. However, the key issue is how primary industries continue to ensure quality of life and important jobs for both women and men. For North Norway and Finnmark in particular, the fishing industry is the main primary industry. It is in this industry that we have many people with great knowledge and competence — enough knowledge to make the right choices in a positive development. But the bet will of course cost. Traditional Nordic industry is often produced as a business with high unemployment rates, a lack of capital, low skills, a commodity-oriented business and depending on transfers from the country. But North Norway is a resource-rich area, we have rich fishing resources, clean nature and large energy resources. Why is the northern part of the country not doing so well? I believe that the rights and governance of these resources have to go back to the national section. The need for transfers will then be much less. The problem for, for example, Finnmark is not overcapacity in the fleet but that the county has lost fishing shares and rights over a long period of time. Other challenges are the development of a varied fleet that can make North Norway less dependent on the supply of Russians. A national task must be the renewal of the fishing fleet. Another area that should be focused is research, education and the market. There must be much greater cooperation between enterprises, industry and research. There is also a major need for the development and maintenance of coastal fishing ports. The annual State allocations for fishing ports have not been proportionate to the challenges we face. These are framework conditions and prerequisites that must be taken into account to provide the best guarantee that people will still live here who can reap from the sea. When I'm in the area of fish, I can't help mentioning the safety training for fishermen. Too many fishermen have died at sea in recent years. It is then amazing that support for security training has been cut. Experience has shown that such training is useful. It must be the responsibility of the public to bring down the death toll. Still fewer young people in the north are taking higher education. One must continue to motivate them to broader education so that they too can develop in the knowledge society that is coming more and more. Even though more people take education, we are far north of the world in need of a wide range of work that makes it attractive and exciting for them to stay in the country. We need them to get further growth and development. The development of Snow White is a project that can be one of the keys to employment, housing and value creation in the north. It could be the food and industrial development we need. Snow White will be able to represent a new industry with high potential for development through increased skills and also help to change the biased distribution between public and private jobs. A petroleum environment in North Norway and in the Barents Sea provides a good starting point for Barents Region cooperation and signals the continued involvement and influence of Norway in the northern regions. More and more women today have the freedom to take education, which is very positive for society. Women want to realize their skills and knowledge and move to where it's work. The width of the labour market required to make these women remain in the districts is not present. SND needs to become an even better tool in terms of women-satted measures. We've come a step on the way, but it's been a long time until we can get on the chest and say that women get their legitimate share of public funds spent on nutrition development. It is important that SND work on different strategies and in different areas. Women are an important group in job creation. That is why they should not thank crumbs. Business and welfare policies are two sides of the same coin. If we do not have a good business policy and a robust business life, we have no guarantee of a further development of the welfare society. The aim of the Labour Party on a stable economic policy is to ensure that we do this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e1171	There can be no doubt that information and communication technologies are one of the most central driving forces in the development of the knowledge society. That's why, with pleasure, the government can present a budget where one has got to bet on ICT. Next year's government budget proposes to double the State's ICT effort by adding 150 million. NOK in fresh funds so that we get an increase of 50 to 200 million. kr. With this ICT package on top of 800 million. Over four years, we are at full height with the efforts that are taking place in Sweden, Denmark and the United Kingdom when it comes to prioritising ICT in schools. Some of what will be given priority first is to improve ICT skills among teachers. There will be efforts both to ensure ICT in the basic training of all new teachers and to strengthen the work of ICT in the continuing training of teachers at work. The goal is for teachers not only to become personal users, but also professional users. There is no individual intervention to solve all problems within ICT and education. This is why the government is making efforts in other areas, including Internet access and research and the development of ICT as a educational tool. The new ICT programme in education – 2000–2003 – will see the Government’s objectives for the whole education sector, but for the first time we set out a specific priority for developing the youth dimension in the primary school. As part of the reform process, resources have been provided for the development of competences and experimental and development work. The funds that were not planned to be carried forward from the reform work are now being continued, and as part of the school package, the Government is adding fresh funds so that we get more than a doubling of the resources that go into the development of competence. So next year we'll get about 160 million. The development of skills requires us to return to the 1970s and the experimental councils in order to find the corresponding commitment to the development of competence in the school. The draft State budget for 2000 also represents a research effort, with a total growth in the 7 pst research programme. The first return from the research fund, i.e. the mid-year effect of $90 million. kr, is allocated to long-term basic research. The permits for research related to information and communication technologies and energy and the environment are increasing monthly, and the construction of a new marine research vessel is increasing. We have screens on research at universities and universities, even if the number of places of study is reduced. St.meld. No 39 for 1998-99, Research at a time, was presented in June this year. Although the message is not yet handled in the Size View, the Government has largely chosen to follow up the priorities of the message in the 2000 budget proposal. The research must now take place in order to take advantage of the optimism generated by the message in the research environment of an innovative Norwegian citizen. In several major debates, the size has also shown that they have ambitions when it comes to research. I therefore look forward to processing the research message later in the fall. The third major effort for next year is the follow-up to the reform of competences. The government will introduce a right for adults who want to take further training and who have not previously completed such training. This will be a very important step towards meeting the objective of making it possible for all adults to increase their competences. Such a right will be complicated to design, and attention will have to be paid to both the needs of adults for the organisation of training and the ability of county councils to fulfil such a right during periods of enhanced search. The government will come back to Stortinget with this matter in the spring. The government has proposed to allow 180 million. to various actions related to the reform of competences. Of these, 50 million is proposed. kr as the first commitment to the development of competence programme, as set out in our statement of revenue. The process of defining the content and organisation of programmes is already well under way with the social partners. It has also been suggested that SND should be able to strengthen its efforts to address skills development programmes in 2000. In addition, it is proposed that funds be made available for regulatory changes in the State Loan Fund for Education, including: to make education more available to adults. Means have also been proposed to further develop a system of documentation and valuation of real competences towards further training and to increase government support for courses leading to further examinations under the auspices of study associations and distance learning institutions. In addition, it is proposed to allow resources to monitor the need for and initiate trials of primary school education for adults, and to develop models of education that are appropriate to the needs and living conditions of adults.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e1192	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e1195	There is a broad political consensus that investing in education is necessary to smooth out the differences in society. With the government's plans for next year's government budget, the education and education sector will probably be weakened if there is no agreement to increase the free resources of the municipalities. Local authorities will have major problems if this is not done, not least in view of the fact that several thousand new elephants are to be phased into the education system. Here it should be a positive will if we all meant something to bet on education in this year's election campaign. In the Waxenå Declaration, the government had great ambitions, among other things. with a view to increasing the grant scheme for students and reducing the number of pupils in primary school classes. We know that these measures will cost a lot of money. My question to the Council of State is whether these are ambitions that are still on the table, which are highly priority on the list of Governments. In March 1998, I organised an interview to provide an action plan for teacher recruitment. The government promised to present this action plan in April-May this year. Later this was changed to September, and the last thing I've heard is now at the end of this month. This action plan was very much described in the election campaign, as one of the most important documents the Storting is waiting for. And my question to the Council of State will be if he can now say when the message might come to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e1204	When it comes to the community structure, a system has been used when it relates to transfers to the schools that both the previous governments and this government have used in the past. So no new system has been used this year – it has not been automatically regulated when the student number has fallen, nor when it has gone up. When it comes to the claim that there will be a tightening of the education budget, the reality is that there is a real increase in the education budget. There's a growth of 4.3 pst, which is good over what's the price rise, and I've said in my post that maybe the extra bet comes. What is the reality is that we have prioritised first and foremost teacher competence and ICT bet. Furthermore, we have given priority to implementing the notification of competence, as promised in relation to the parties to the statement of revenue, and we have also given priority to implementing the start-up of the research effort – all important new initiatives. That is why there is an absolute new effort in this budget. It is a priority over the measures that apply to scholarships and classrooms, as mentioned by the representative Oppebøen Hansen. When it comes to the youth ball and the number of elephants in the class, we start an experiment to increase teacher coverage after another system. When it comes to the Teacher Recruitment Action Plan, I am sorry that it has not arrived before. It's a very extensive and difficult job. I can confirm that my goal is to present it during October, and I hope that we can have an exciting discussion about this in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e1213	The council replied to a slightly different question than the representative Oppebøen Hansen asked. He did not ask what was the aim of the Council of State, for it has never been in doubt – ever since April/May this year it has been a good goal – he asked if the Council of State can guarantee that the notification will be submitted during the month of October. I should also like to have heard the answer to that question. What makes it regrettable, yes even more than regrettable, is that the very most important aspect of school investment has been put at risk and is lacking so far, because of this, it is difficult to make a clear impression on whether there is a whole in the Government's plans for school and education. In the draft budget submitted, it is not possible to trace something that can tell us that there will be some substance in the teacher recruitment message. And there's a general perception among those who know the challenges of Norwegian school and education, that the recruitment of qualified teachers and the maintenance of qualified teachers are the key factor in the whole picture, if we're going to succeed in the future. The Council of State claimed that there is a significant escalation of research efforts. There is no one, I think, who by reading the state budget has been able to see that escalation. Nor is it easy to see that the new research fund, which was to be added to the investment, really comes in addition to the fact that half of the 90 million that would be brought to income, is to be buried on Fornebu to create a centre of excellence from research No one knows what this should contain, and no one knows where to get the expertise from. It is impossible for me to see that the proposal put forward by the Government really involves some investment in research and education.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e1226	It is difficult to see health and substance, says the representative Wage. The emphasis on teacher skills that we make here, in combination with ICT, the role of teachers and new developments from below in the school, is health and substance. The right has claimed through the election campaign that the initiative they launched when school competence development, post-education, was offensive in the revised national budget. Now we are investing much more than the Right proposed in the revised national budget. That must be a pretty good bet. So to that with teacher recruitment. I have recorded that one of the measures that are listed on the Right, that with pay that the representative of the Wage went out and outlined, from 50,000 to 100,000, from 3 to 7 billion, the party leader has not stood behind, and that's not exactly what came from the representative of the Wage in that way. I recognize that it's taken a few months more than my goal, and it's to get a whole-hearted message with a good substance. I would like to take criticism that it has taken so long. I might say that there are other things that have taken longer, but I have to take responsibility for not having done it at this time. So it'll come by October, as I said. It's hard to see the growth when it comes to the research, says the representative, "Wages and salaries." Then I can refer to NIFU, which has just today come with its speech. It is not the government agency, neither the Ministry of Finance nor the Ministry of Education, Education and Research, it is an independent research institute that has gone through this. They've corrected the government's number with the dramaticly high number of 0.1 pst. - it's not 7.1 pst. growth, that's 7 pst. I think we've hit well, and I'm proud of the research.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e1237	On the SV side, we have basically missed the Council of State Lilletun during the election campaign. There we would like to have good old Lilletun in free flow, as we knew Oppositions-Lilletun. It is – I think – a fact that Lilletun got more in the education sector in opposition together with the Right and SV, for the centre, the Right and SV had a majority of the previous ageing period and got to much in the education sector, while the level of ambition has now been heavily checked down. We would like to equip Lilletun with a little bit more money for a little bit more bet, because we have in particular a high school that had earned a much bigger political attention, fewer students in the class, upgraded teachers, the opportunity to move the teaching out, get exciting people into, while the reality around in the classrooms many places per. today is that they may be able to afford half a bus ticket during a whole harvest. It's going to be boring and bad teaching that doesn't meet the curriculum. It has now been said by the government that the school must wait; we must introduce a major reform in the field of care for the elderly. It has to come first, and then the school has to come then. But that's a rather old-fashioned way of thinking about education, because education is investment in the knowledge and competence communities of the future, and if we don't make the necessary investments, we also have little to harvest. Can I know if the Council of State Lilletun agrees that education must wait, and that all the promises of the Declaration of Adulthood, which is the Government's declaration to the voters during a four-year period, cannot be realized, because in two years' time that period is actually out!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e1248	First I want to say that it is always fun to be missing, and that the representative Halvorsen has missed me, I appreciate it. I believe that the representative of Halvorsen and the Minister of Education have a common view of what is needed at school, and what can in a way renew the youth sphere. We're doing that, not with as much money as the representative Halvorsen has to put in, but we're doing the renewal work. And our thinking around it is actually drawing well against the outside. Then the representative Halvorsen says Lilletun got more in opposition than as a minister. Yes, I admit that I think I got a lot in opposition, but at the same time I have to say that sometimes I would like to know that the representative Halvorsen had also taken a tour of the government offices. That's what I think actually would have been a task force in a lifelong learning process. It has been experienced by the representative Lilletun as Minister, and I believe that also the representative Halvorsen had the opportunity to experience it. I'm glad she wants to equip me with more money, but at the same time it's a start on a real escalating. This is the first time that there is such a strong commitment to ICT as well as to continuing training – without regard to government – as it is this year. Both the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister and I have said that now it is the school's turn, and we have kept in the budget what we promised in the election campaign. The declaration of adulthood debt, as the representative Halvorsen said, ends the whole period, and it is quite clear our goal to increase sharply the escalation that has occurred this year, in the next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e1257	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e1260	The municipal election campaign told us that there is a broad political settlement in the political environment about investing in school and education in the future. The government had great ambitions in the Adult Declaration two years ago. Some of the points are met, but it says that some of the areas where the government has not yet taken hold, but I understand that the Council of State Lilletun has been on adult education for lifelong learning. For the Labour Party, it is fundamentally important that people have a job to go to, for two reasons: firstly, having work is a great value in itself, and secondly, high employment is important to ensure the welfare society in the future. In a society characterised by major and rapid technological changes, it is crucial to focus on skills and training. For the Workers' Party, the right to education has always been linked to distribution. There is a serious threat of unfair distribution, absenteeism, increasing unemployment and social problems for society as a whole if we are unable to take the necessary steps to meet the challenges of the knowledge society. Knowledge and competence will be decisive for the country and its competitiveness in the future. We are now talking about the knowledge economy, and about investing in human capital to explain the challenges of the knowledge society. In this area, the Centre Party and the Labour Party stand together on most of the questions, and we hope that the budget discussions in the days ahead will give the result that we will have a government budget with a clear commitment to school and education. Right did a big number in the election campaign that the Norwegian school is an A4 school, where everyone is going through the so-called social-democratic women, and that the students come out with miserable knowledge. Such claims testify to little knowledge of Norwegian schools, and there is a strong assessment of all the development that all schools in the country have done to create a good school with the variation and project work that promises and plans to commit the schools. And not least: it's a huge underestimation of today's schooling and the individual teacher. We are at full speed into a situation where we want more flexible ways to organise education, work and leisure. The combination of work and education is becoming more and more common. Studies tell us that people experience that they learn the most in the workplace. Therefore, the Labour Party believes that it is important to focus more on the workplace as the learning arena and to have greater flexibility in education. The majority debated the evaluation of reform 94 a week ago. A lot of good leads were put on just this. Not least, these decisions were the result of a good cooperation between the Labour Party and the Government Party. In the case of higher education, it is important to focus on decentralised education. Decentralized education provides people with education where they live, and in this way it helps to ensure qualified personnel in those areas where there is a need for it. Every year, the size has been a strong concern that universities and colleges should be our heaviest managers of competences. In this way, they will also be central players in the field of continuing education. Competences exist here, in many cases of poor quality. However, if these institutions are to become good main players in the continuing education front for years to come, they have a need, among other things. to be strengthened financially, not least through a commitment to research and scientific equipment. Furthermore, the organisation must be organised, and it must be a broad professional commitment. Continuing education is by no means a new task for our higher education institutions. In terms of health and teacher education, institutions have long traditions of providing further education. I want to learn teacher training separately. Universities and universities are responsible for qualifying women and men who, over the next decade, set the standard for knowledge development in all school levels, as well as for research. Now it is probably one and a half years since the Stortinget decided to get on the table an action plan for teacher recruitment. Unfortunately, it was still waiting, but I take the Council of State for the floor and expect it to be presented during this month. In the election campaign, we politicians struggle to bet on the school. Now we're back in everyday life, and the budgetary work ahead will answer where we're related to this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-12-2.ana.ud431e1288	So tonight's meeting has come to an end. The debate will continue tomorrow at 5 p.m. 10; first speaker is Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik.
