ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e42	The following called alternates have taken their seat: For Akershus County: Åge Tovan For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Aud Folkestad For the Westfold province: Step Gjersøe From the Norwegian delegation to the Joint Parliamentary Delegation to the EFTA and EEA" meets at Lillehammer, there is a leading application, the signatures of the Chair of the delegation, the High Representative Haakon Blankenborg. The application shall be submitted to the representatives of Grete Knudsen, Morten Lund, Brother Ynge Rahm, Siri Frost Sterri and Haakon Blankenborg on 1 and 2 June. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications are processed immediately and accepted.2. The following alternates will be called to meet during the leave period:For Hordaland County: Sigurd GryttenFor Uppland County: Kjell Ivar FossnesFor Telemark County: Vivian Knarvik BuggeFor South Trondelag County: Bjørg Bruset and Michael Momyr3. Michael Momyr is elected to the Lamentations for the time he meets with the representative Siri Frost Sterri.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e115	I am pleased with this opportunity to set out the objectives and instruments underlying the government's media policy. Technological development, internationalisation and commercialisation pose major challenges in the media sector in the coming years, and this will mean that key media policy instruments still need to be adapted to changing conditions. Although this forces discussions on individual issues and regulation of sub-areas in the media field, I would like to stress that the basic overall objectives of media policy are set. The starting point of government policy is to ensure freedom of expression as a prerequisite for a living democracy. This presupposes that the media are open channels for cultural impulses, information, dissent and societal debate. In the light of democratic and cultural interests, it is necessary to ensure the diversity and quality of media management and dissemination of news, knowledge and culture. The best guarantee of genuine freedom of expression is a diversity of independent media with a good geographical distribution that can ensure a wide range of information and opinions. As a result, it is important to counter trends in uniformity and owner concentration in the mass media. At the same time, the press and broadcasters must be given framework conditions enabling them to meet the need for quality and universality. The media have a very important role in cultural policy. Active efforts are therefore needed to ensure a Norwegian-language offer, while maintaining and developing cultural diversity. This is a goal that it has been and is a broad political consensus about here in the country. So far we've done well to achieve these goals. Public broadcasting has a strong tradition in Norway, and we have a flora of local guides to which no other country can point. The 1998 figures of the Central Statistical Office show a stable uptake of both the newspapers and the public broadcasting sector. Norwegian media also maintain a high quality and ethical standard. Key instruments for achieving the objectives I have outlined are press support and VAT exemptions for newspapers, while legal regulation, concessional conditions and economic instruments have been key in the field of public broadcasting. As you know, the media are marked by major technological changes. This affects the media area in general, but especially broadcasting. We're on the threshold of a switch from analogue to digital broadcasting of radio and television. The digitisation of broadcasting will lead to a common technological base for telecommunications, IT and broadcasting sectors. This will make the boundaries between the sectors less clear. It is this development that is often referred to as ‘convergence’. In particular, there are two aspects of major importance to broadcasting. Firstly, digitisation means that, in principle, different distribution networks can be used for broadcasting purposes. The consequence is that the broadcasting offer will be doubled. Secondly, developments will change the economic environment of existing media activities and increase competition. New actors accessing more affordable distribution channels will get on the road and compete with established media for revenues that do not necessarily increase at the same rate. There is a great deal of uncertainty about what technological developments will mean in practice. I would warn you that we only look at what technology is possible. Equally important is to understand what people really want. We know that people's media habits don't change overnight. No matter what we choose to believe about the future – not least about the pace of development – the changes we now see are extremely far-reaching. The government has therefore seen the need for a review of, among other things. broadcasting policy. This was the background to the last year's government appointing a sample to identify the political and legal consequences of convergence, with a special focus on any need for changes in telecommunications and broadcasting laws. The Convergence Committee will give its opinion in June this year. Through the Internet, we are already seeing the first approaches to what can be the consequences of convergence. We can watch movies over the Internet, even though the quality so far is not the best. We can watch pictures and hear radio programs. Here the quality is far better than for movies. For a long time, it has been claimed that the Internet and services provided via the Internet are in a legal room. In particular, such claims have been made on content which may be described as violent or pornographic. This isn't right. All Norwegian databases are governed by general criminal law. It has as well-known rules prohibiting the dissemination of films and images with such content. Let me also mention that there is extensive international work on action in this area, which includes, on the one hand, requirements for industry itself to take responsibility for regulation. A proposal on Norwegian participation in an international programme for safe use of the Internet will be submitted until the autumn. In addition to digitisation, media trends have long been marked by two further trends: internationalisation and commercialisation. With a keypress, offers from around the world are available – at good and bad. Commercialisation is a fact and creates new conditions of competition. We are forced to take the consequences of this, among other things. by offering NRK new and competitive conditions. But at the same time, we have to meet the negative impacts, the flattening and the inferior products. One way to address this is an active cultural policy, where the opportunities offered by the new technology are put into practice. The vast amounts of resources available in our cultural institutions must be made available — whether in the archives of the NRK or in museums and galleries. We're well on our way and we want to move on. We are responsible for providing programmes based on our own culture, our own traditions and preferences. We have to take that responsibility. Even though commercialization is a fact, it doesn't mean that we have to lay flat for commercial interests. It is not relevant for the Government to open up more liberal advertising rules in broadcasting. In the sponsorship proposition, we have proposed a tightening of the NRK sponsorship rules. We put a lot of emphasis on the fact that the NRK is actually going to be an advertisement-free broadcaster. Technological developments have received a lot of attention and have been extensively debated in newspapers and trade journals, seminars and conferences in recent years. The debate has, in my view, been too focused on technology. What, after all, is the most important thing from a cultural and media policy point of view – the content of the media – has made it easy to get into the background. Although we are now on the threshold of a new millennium, and technological innovation could lead to profound changes in the media image, I see little reason to change the overall objectives of media policy. This is not due to conservatism or lack of vision, but to a recognition that media pluralism, expression and access to factual and comprehensive information are crucial prerequisites for a democratic society. These objectives are as timely as before, but we need to be willing to discuss which instruments are best suited to achieve the objectives. We must be willing to think again and quickly about the necessary changes to the instruments. Public broadcasters NRK, TV 2 and P4 shall follow the principles applicable to public broadcasting. For the NRK, this is laid down in the Broadcasting Act and the statutes of the company. For TV 2 and P4 it is fixed in the concession terms. I do not want to go into detailed questions relating to programme statistics, listening and viewing, or the development of the advertising market. Instead, I refer to the annual reports of individual companies. I have noted with pleasure that, in its 1998 report, the General Broadcasting Council states that the overall Norwegian general broadcasting offer must be said to be good and that the professional standard in these channels is clearly above that of competitors. In 1998, the Council also considers that it has recorded small but significant signs of positive developments in areas where the channels have been criticised in the past. I find that the NRK's overall radio offer meets the requirements for public broadcasting and a comprehensive programme offer. However, the Council points out certain weaknesses in the NRK television channels. This applies, inter alia, to: the coverage of art, culture and media in NRK1. I'll bring this up with the NRK. In the case of P4 Radio Alle Norway, I assume that, in line with the obligations arising from the public broadcasting concession, the channel will provide transmissions to the Sami population and minority groups. It is not appropriate to weaken this obligation. How it is to be implemented is then the responsibility of P4. At TV 2, the Danish Broadcasting Council has registered a happy adjustment in the right direction in the areas of art and cuturgy and religion and life views. However, there is room for improvement, but I note that TV 2 now seems to take seriously the shortcomings I have previously pointed out in the TV 2 programme profile, and that the channel now shows signs of a more positive attitude towards the public broadcasting obligations. I assume that TV 2 will now soon follow up the requirements for shipments for Sami and minorities, and that the channel prioritises children's programmes. I will follow closely the evolution of all public broadcasters in the future. As you know, TV 2 has asked for discussions with the Ministry to renew the concession before it expires at the turn of the year 2002/2003. I am prepared to initiate such discussions with TV 2 and will place great emphasis on the company's public broadcasting obligations in these discussions. The government sees it as an overall media policy task to ensure good financial conditions for Norwegian public broadcasters. This is to provide the NRK with a reasonable income base and to maintain a regulatory framework and a concession policy that ensures good competitive conditions for Norwegian public broadcasters. But here too, there are limits that I am, for example. not be prepared to celebrate the requirements concerning the prohibition of advertising in relation to consignments addressed to children. Norkring is Norway’s largest distribution company for radio and television signals. The company owns the broadcasters for NRK, TV 2, P4 and most local broadcasters in Norway. The NRK owns 60 pst. of the shares in Norkring AS. The remaining 40 pst. owned by Telenor AS. It is previously provided that the NRK shall reduce its ownership interest to approx. 9 pst. The NRK now wants to sell its entire shareholding in Norkring to Telenor. The NRK points out that after the sale the company will no longer have a double role as a customer and partner in Norkring. This will be neat compared to Norkring’s other customers, which are the competitors of the NRK. I propose that the sale be approved in a short time by the general meeting of the NRK. I have also promoted a number of amendments to the legislation in the broadcasting sector during the current magnification period, which we come back to when dealing with these. I would like to take this opportunity to mention a forthcoming proposal which will have an impact on the competition of public broadcasters for rights to important sports broadcasts. In 1997 the EU adopted an amending Directive to the so-called Television Directive, which is part of the EEA Agreement. The amending Directive makes it possible to ensure that important events can be received free of charge by a significant proportion of viewers. The main point is to ensure that large events such as football World Cup and Olympic games are not only broadcast on payment channels that cover a limited proportion of television viewers. When the EEA Committee is expected to propose to include the amending Directive in the EEA Agreement in a short time, the Government will promote proposals for its implementation in Norway. Television broadcasts from major sporting events will be offered in this proposal to broadcasters with a broad national coverage in Norway, i.e. NRK and TV 2 Local broadcasting shows that both local radio and local television are still running at a significant loss. However, compared to 1997, the figures show an overall improvement in the performance of this group of media of about 15 million. kr. This is mainly due to a positive development in local television. It is not relevant for the Government to extend or introduce new local broadcasting economic instruments in addition to the grants provided through Audiovisual Production Fund. After a longer period of test broadcasts, the NRK and P4 have recently concluded an agreement with Norkring on the development of a digital radio ground network. Norkring will be responsible for the expansion and own the transmission network, NRK and P4 and the company that will receive the new DAB concession will lease the capacity of Norkring. Already, approx. 33 pst. transmissions of NRKs and P4 DABs by the population. After the agreement 45 pst. the transmission network is completed by the end of 1999. Then the entire east, the skien-Trondheim and Karasjok and Kautokeino sections shall be covered. During the year 2000, a coverage of at least 60 pst is expected. For the national block, it is assumed that the coverage shall be at least equivalent to that of the NRK P1 today, i.e. nearly 100 pst. The state media administration is now finalising the applications for the new concession for nationwide DAB shipments. A decision in this case is likely to be made before the summer holiday. In a short time, the government will present a big message on the development of digital television broadcasting networks on the ground. Digital television will open up new interactive services, more equitable distribution and a wider range of programmes. Key issues in the Communication will be how public broadcasting will be ensured in a digital context. Another question is how to ensure open standards for different digital television offers. The possible development of a digital TV network will, during a transitional period, entail increased costs for broadcasters, as analogue and digital broadcasts have to run in parallel for some years. Norway currently has an available frequency on the long-wave band. There is nothing that, in principle, prevents a concession from being granted to private radio activities on a long or medium-wave basis if there are available available available frequencies. The possibility of applying for a concession will be published in the usual way. Norway’s Fiskarlag has for a number of years provided for better radio coverage for seafarers in the Barents Sea. The question has been highly interested in Stortinget, and I have placed considerable emphasis on solving this, and the first transmitter will be put into service on 15 June this year. The second will probably be ready in 2000. I am happy to announce that the matter has now been resolved, and that we will all this year get significantly better radio coverage in this area. In general broadcasting, it is a central principle that there should be an offer for the whole population. In this context, there is an obligation to provide adequate geographical coverage, while taking into account broad and narrow groups of the population. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has raised the question of whether the NRC has followed up the assumptions expressed by the Stortinget in the decision on increased broadcasting charges in the State budget for 1996 and 1997. The specific issue is the creation of separate district shipments for Eastfold and Northland. I await a detailed statement from the NRK before the matter can be submitted to the Stortinget, and I propose to mention it in the budget proposal for the year 2000. In the setting of the 1997 Broadcasting and Day Press Communication, the Committee asked the Ministry to assess whether it was appropriate to legislate for live programmes, if it was not possible to find better solutions in cooperation with the public broadcasters. The question of deafness has also been addressed in Stortingen’s Questionnaire several times in the last year. The NRK states that they are now in the final phase of producing a model for the programme that is necessary to refer to text on the spot. I would like to stress that both NRK and TV 2 have a separate responsibility to text as much as possible of the broadcasts. However, if the technology would not work, I will now prepare a piece of work with a view to legislating subtitles for television programmes, as I also informed in the Question Time last Wednesday. Papers receiving press support had a total deficit in 1998 before aid of approx. 155 million. kr. This is an increase of 3 million. 1997 kr. The figures show that, as in the past, there is a particular point. The two newspapers and the five nationally distributed opinion papers that report significant deficits and need press support to survive. In the course of the 1999 state budget, the government asked for a public sample to be set up to review the press support. Like other state schemes, press support must be regularly adapted to developments in the structure and economy of the press, the media image of the rest and society. The newspapers are facing increasing competition from other media, and many newspapers are in an economically difficult situation, among other things. because many have increased postage costs. On 16 April of this year, the Government appointed a body to carry out an overall assessment of public policy with a bearing on the framework conditions of the press. The committee is chaired by former Minister of Culture Hallvard Bakke and has a wide range of professional and geographical backgrounds. The Committee shall give its opinion on 15 April 2000. In order to avoid newspaper deaths and to benefit from the work of the sample, it is important to maintain as stable a framework as possible for the press during the period until this investigation is available. Norway is one of several European countries which has introduced rules on media ownership restrictions. We have done this precisely on the grounds of strengthening freedom of expression, the diversity of the media sector and the real opportunities to express themselves. The Ownership Act came into force at the end of this year. The newly created Ownership Supervisor shall supervise acquisitions in the day-to-day press and broadcasting and may intervene in acquisitions which result in a significant position of ownership and which are contrary to the purpose of the law to promote freedom of expression and media pluralism. More than 20 different acquisitions have been examined so far. Ownership supervisors continue to work on about half of these to determine whether they are contrary to the ownership law. The Ownership Act applies today to press and broadcasting. The technological developments we are now seeing are leading to new ways of disseminating content. The new media have, or may have, a strong impact on the population, and they transmit much of the same substance that press and broadcasting does. The majority has authorised the Government to make the ownership law applicable to media other than press and broadcasting. The Internet has already changed some of the assumptions underlying the bill. I want to await the Convergence Committee's suspension, but I am generally in favour of a precautionary approach as regards the need to extend the scope of the law. In the 1997 report on the ownership of the media, it was proposed to legislate on the principle of editorial independence. A majority in the Grand Duchy joined this. In January 1998, the Ministry of Culture sent out a bill for consultation. The bill was based on the principles of the Editorial plaque, which Norwegian media owners, after my impression, essentially respect. The Hearing Officers were divided into views on the proposal. The Ministry of Justice has concluded that legislating this principle is likely to be contrary to the Basic Law § 100 on freedom of expression, because the owners may lose the opportunity to express themselves freely through their own publications. Although there are different perceptions of this in the legal environment, I have come to the conclusion that it would not be right to make a proposal that, in the view of the Government, could be contrary to the Basic Law's provision on freedom of expression. In 1997, Stortinget concluded a proposal to impose obligations on media enterprises to inform about their own ownership. According to the plan, the rules on information obligations and editorial independence should form a common special law. When the law of the editorial institute is no longer applicable, it would hardly be appropriate to propose a separate law on information obligations. The proposal was that the information obligation should include information on the percentage distribution of ownership interests between the five largest owners in each medium. Several hearing bodies pointed out that such information would be of limited value to the public because the interests behind the largest owners would not be disclosed. I have therefore investigated other ways to ensure transparency about the ownership of Norwegian media. And I would like to ask that the Ownership Authority now regularly issue a report on the ownership of Norwegian media. The government is not set to open up increased commercialisation in the broadcast. We are very much aware of the issues that convergence raises, including for the Internet, and we attach great importance to maintaining the widest possible offer on Norwegian radio and television. The overall objectives of media policy are set, although technology is changing. The Government emphasises the maintenance of freedom of expression, a comprehensive and qualitatively good Norwegian-language offer with a broad geographical spread.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e216	The President will make suggestions that the Minister for Culture’s media policy is presented for management in a later meeting – and sees it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e228	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by 5 minutes to each group. In addition, the President will propose that there is no possibility of replication after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e235	I don't need to say so much. It is a unanimous setting that has been submitted. I just need to make a few comments. The most natural thing would have been that the committee had dealt with this matter, that is, St. prp. No 51 for 1998-99, at the same time as St. pp. No 52 for 1998-99, which we will deal with later. But since the Committee sees this as a relatively small matter, and has received assurances in a letter from the Council of State that this does not bind the Committee in any way in relation to the treatment of St.prp. No 52, we have chosen to deal with this matter now. I just want to underline a couple of relationships. Firstly, the Committee reserves the right to make other solutions when considering St.prp. No 52 than the Government proposes in the case of extended lease for the Saudi Falls. The second aspect of the Committee's attention is that we assume that the entire volume of power of 883 GWh/year from the Saudi Falls to the Eramet, which is the subject of this proposition, will be used in the melting plants in Saudi Arabia and in Porsground. With these few comments, I basically don't need to say anything more.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e246	SV supports this suggestion under doubt. In particular, it is important to clarify what the case spokesperson said, namely the limitations of the conditions of use in relation to where the force is to be used. I would like to say a few words about Elkem in this matter, and in this context, I must basically remind myself of Fred Akerström's saying, 'This is capitalism'. I have been told many times in Sauda by the guidance in Elkem that they will bet 110 pst. in the Sauda community, that they should build acetic acid factories, and that they should do all they can for this society! And then one feels that the two years later, yes, one day after they've promised this, they say, "No, we're selling out, we don't need to have interests in the Sauda community, the Sauda community really means very little to us. I'm a little surprised that the company acts this way. Those who repeatedly say to us: We must have a forward-looking planning, they must fix and give the right framework conditions, so that we can function properly! And then they behave like this. In that perspective, I'm a little surprised that the government is going in order for Elkem to expand the Saudefalla. Now it's SV's opinion that the Saudi Falls should not be expanded, but the government is in favour of this. I hope that the bulk of the population is of a different opinion and sympathise that Elkem's actions against the Sauda community in this matter mean that they are out-of-date in relation to the possible extension of the Saudefall. SV still supports the recommendation from the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e259	It is positive that there is a unanimous vote by the Committee, and it is positive that the Government's arrangements are fully endorsed. It is important for the Saudi community and for this part of Rogaland that the Eramet secures the power supply, and it is natural that this happens through an agreement with Elkem. The fusion plant in Sauda is supplied with power from the Saudi Falls, which is owned by Elkem. The sheepfalls will be disposed of by the plant until 2010. It is natural that a good solution for Sauda and a good solution for the Era is based on a system of Elkem. These conditions are well on the way to answering the question posed by the representative of Langeland in relation to the management of the Government. What is available is an order of business, well adapted to the interests of the community. A comprehensive solution will only be put in place when it is clarified who will carry out the further development and management of the resources associated with the Saudi Falls. In relation to Langeland’s observation on development, it is important to note that the scope of this development is treated as a matter of its own. For the left, it will not be appropriate to accept the most comprehensive option, but there is an intermediate solution that fully supports the interests of protection. As far as further expansion is concerned, we have the opportunity to come back to this, but the government has also said that since Elkem is already in a key role, it is natural to build on a cooperation with Elkem. The scheme of the Government is fully consistent with the wishes of the Sauda community.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e272	I had initially not intended to take the floor in this matter, but after Langeland came with his outcome to Elkem, I think it is right to correct a little. First of all, it's not like the Sauda community means very little to Elkem. The Sauda community still means a lot to Elkem, and they have shown that through the way they have acted in this matter as well. That this new company has come in is a strengthening of society. The acetic acid factory is not clad – on the contrary. It could be more topical than Langeland and I'm aware of today. I think it's right to clarify these things.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e281	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3470]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e295	Inner. S. No 186 is a limited document in volume, but it deals with a serious proposal for a change of regulation which, if agreed, would improve the situation of students during approved rehabilitation. However, the majority found that the proposal had to be rejected. The Ministry, through correspondence with the Committee, has reported on administrative practices relating to the regulation in question, including the buffer contained in the State Loan Fund in the case of teaching establishments documenting financing needs in addition to the current regulatory framework of DKK 5000 and within approved rehabilitation schemes. The reasons for maintaining the current system are three-thirds and in line with the views of the Department. Coverage by bill will incentivise little to accuracy in the purchase of material. Equal opportunities vis-à-vis others who finance education and training must be included in the assessment. Disabled persons with particularly high expenditure on school supplies already have exceptions to this provision. With regard to further arguments for any change, I refer to the minority, which is consistent with the proposer. I therefore recommend the majority voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e306	This may seem like a very small matter, but for the few, this is a very important matter, and for society it's actually about choosing between very large and very small counts and expenses. I'm actually a little shocked by the outcome of the case, because I thought it was so obvious that there was a majority who would correct this little, but quite dramatic, difficulty for some of those who are the weakest in our society in competing on the labour market. The law that we're talking about should give those who need it the most, a real opportunity to participate in the world of work. So it doesn't work for everyone. This is because once the Labour Market Act has approved a rehabilitation scheme, on which we assume that they have assessed the total economic aspects of it, there are some who need a scheme that costs a little more than the maximum rates of equipment needed to carry out the training. This might be about a few thousand copies. In the single examples I've been in, it's 2000 -3000 – 4000 kroner in extra costs related to an approved rehabilitation scheme over which the Labour Market Act has complete control if they believe that the use of resources is proportionate to what can be achieved, i.e. if you can expect the person to come out to work. It turns out there's no desire to fix this. It shocks me, because such small trip wires that exist in the system – whether they are in law or regulation – can tear individual people to pieces. Those we spend thousands of dollars rehabilitating, we risk ending up as permanent social security recipients with thousands of dollars in expenses every month. This does not apply to many, but they have common features. I thought in my simplicity that there was a political consensus between the Workers' Party, the Centre and the SV that we should pay particular attention to these groups, because they have health problems – often of a chronic nature – and they are poor Often, there are women with wear injuries who want to train and who want to work. So they have to cope with sickness, school and bad economics at once. Is it then so unreasonable that they get the little help this is about? For most of us, there's little money that we almost don't even think about, but for people in such a situation, it's an insurmountable obstacle. When the majority refers to the Loan Fund and the Loan Fund, I'm not going to deny that it can be an opportunity for someone, but for individuals in a return situation with maybe a chronic, physical or mental disorder, it's going to be an insurmountable obstacle. 3,000 - 4000 kroner! So the knees are supposed to be! But the risk of these people being permanently insured is seen right in the white eye. What that means for the individual of quality of life, I won't even go into it. I am also amazed at the Right and the Advance Party, who have been concerned that the retail management of the regulation and public sector should not go too hard on the individual and make it impossible for individuals to cope on their own. This I think is a good example of it. We also see that the procedures and payments in such cases – people are asked to appeal from the agency to the agency, they are going to use social services in trying to manage – cost far more than the payments that the proposal could bring with it. I believe that this case requires that such things be discussed a little more in principle. From the SV's point of view, the principle must be: better help a short period than secure life. Also a few thousand dollars spent on education and rehabilitation for a shorter period than hundreds of thousands spent on social security for years to come. I would like to repeat that this is about approved rehabilitation arrangements, where the labour market seat has the full opportunity to say that this arrangement of costs is too expensive in relation to the chance of getting him out of permanent work, and thus can say no. However, when the Labour Market Act approves a re-routing scheme for a person whom they know has financial difficulties, it is in my view no more than fair and reasonable that they can fully finance it, so that the chance of running is good. The arrangement in itself will always cost far more than what we're talking about now. Then the majority have stated that one can use used material and in such a way be economical and show soberness. Of course you can. Of course, in the cases that are possible. But if that's not possible? There are some professions now and some schools that require new material. Some of it's technical, and some of it costs a few dollars, but it might be just these professions that suit those who are occupationally disabled. What then? Are we going to stop these people for the sake of some lukewarm thousands of dollars? I think this is sad, I have to be allowed to repeat it. And then it turns out that if you're physically or mentally disabled in the sense of the law, you can get some benefits as well. Some of the people we're talking about have – as I said – e.g. chronic wear injuries. These are women who have worked in nursing, and some of them have not even had to work for many years to get such damage. But maybe it's not that disability -- to say it like that -- that's the heaviest. It is the economic problems that are bringing this to an end. So we are now dealing with individual problems that they did not need in my view, and we are applying the public expenditure that I believe we could be ahead of them. It is also shown by the majority that there is a desire for equality in the treatment of those who have to finance their education on their own, and those who receive funding for most of their education through a re-education system. There might be reason to think about it. No one wants to introduce systems that can override the sense of justice of ordinary people. But in fact, I think we're here in total disregard of people's general sense of justice. I think people would have thought this would have been okay. If you need to get back and have trouble getting into your professional life, and you need $4,000 to finance some tools to complete your education, I actually don't think that most people would have had the least problem saying OK, these people need this extra help, let them get it. I and others who are functionally fresh, who can dry to see an increased loan in the State Loan Box right in the white eye, can handle that burden. This is about another group, and it's very few. Finally, I would just like to refer to a letter that I have received from the City of Oslo, where lawyer Knut Vigeland writes about a specific matter in which I have committed myself, and on which this proposal has been based: ‘I can confirm that I have faced several cases that are completely identical to the client’s; the public grants support for education, but makes the support so limited that education is thus impossible. This clearly requires a further amendment of the law.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e347	The President would like to ask whether the representative intends to address his proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e350	Of course.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e357	Thus, Karin Andersen has drawn up the proposal of the Socialist Left Party. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3470]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e373	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: 25 minutes of the Labour Party, 10 minutes of the Progress Party, 10 minutes of the Christian People's Party, 10 minutes of the Christian People's Party, 10 minutes of the Right, 5 minutes of the Centre Party, 5 minutes of the Socialist Party, 5 minutes of the Left, 5 minutes of the Left Party, and 5 minutes of the Cross Party. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after posts by members of the Government. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President sees it as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e382	This goes away, and it may be good, for it may initially seem violent to discuss both the Rome sport and the operating conditions of the new main airport at the Gardermoen in one thing. I have previously said from this pulpit that when we finish the Rome sport and it is put into service on 22 August, a new era will begin in Railway Norway. The Gardermoban will be a new, forward-looking and very good rail service for the whole of the East, not just a accommodation service for the new main airport. But it's not to hide that there have been some problems related to the expansion of Rome's sport. The issue we have today for treatment is a description and a briefing of the work that has been done to close the Roman Empire. The majority here in the house have repeatedly said that it is an overall objective to take care of the environment in the East. That's why the majority has also agreed that up to SEK 1.3 billion would be used to close the Roman Empire in order to avoid the great damage that would otherwise have occurred if one had not gone to that step. We're recording that the government is now saying that it seems that you should be able to stay close to what was previously set as a frame, i.e. NOK 1.3 billion. If there were any changes to this, I assume that the Storting will get it for treatment. It is important to establish that the work done to remedy the damage in the East was and are correct decisions. The Committee says that residents in Hellerud and other neighbouring areas should be financially harmless from the damage caused to the sentence and other types of injury, and it is the responsibility of the Gardermoban and the State to remedy the damage suffered by people in their homes, their gardens and whatever it may be. I'm glad that a unanimous committee adheres to this principle. Ever since the decision on the Gardermoen as the main aerodrome was taken, it has been an important lead that the country’s new main aerodrome should have a high collective share – a large proportion of the passengers would travel collectively to and from the new main aerodrome. Today we are in the situation that about 40 pst. by air passengers, trains to and from the Gardermoen and approximately 20 pst. running bus. So we're in the situation that approx. 60 pst. by travellers travelling collectively in one form or another. This is unique. It's hardly an airport in the world that can measure itself by the collective share that Gardermoen has. It shows that all the alarming propaganda that this was political decisions that were impossible to implement did not really have a root cause. I'm happy about it, and I like the tall collective share that we have. So the high collective share we have today, without the Rome art being used yet. The majority in the committee say that it is overall to ‘renew the high collective share’ that we have today, even in time to come. It would be disastrous if, once we've managed to build up a high collective share, we would tear our legs under this, so that the proportion gradually gets lower. The high collective share must be continued. So on August 22nd, Rome is opening. The flight from Oslo to Gardermoen will take 19 minutes, and the NSB’s other trains that will also operate on the route will have a significantly shorter driving time than today. Ticket prices at the Gardermoban will increase from the same date. The size has said that the financial situation of the Gardermoban will be reviewed after the 1998-99 operational year. It would have to mean that during the winter/spring of next year, the assembly would have to have a total review of the Gardermoban economy. I mentioned in relation to 22 August the opening of Rome's sport and the increase in ticket prices. Before that, I said it's important to continue the high collective share. Obviously, we're at a core problem here. The majority also say in the setting that a ‘emphasises the importance of continuing the high collective share, and believes that this must lead the assessment to be carried out’, i.e. the Gardermoban economic situation. It would be disastrous if we were to praise the train services in such a way that the high collective share that we now have would go down. As I said, the majority say that it should be ‘conducting’ for the further work to continue the high collective share. We can't get tickets on the Gardermoban that make people choose different means of transport than the train. So some words about the operating conditions at the airport. There is no concealment that there have been some operational problems, in particular related to the operation of the new main aerodrome in winter. I want to say for my own part that I think it has been shown by the airport management to find solutions to the problems that have arisen, and I am absolutely sure that the problems that still have to exist will be solved, at least most of them. From the decision on the Gardermoen as the main aerodrome, and all the time afterwards in the aerodrome planning, there has been one centrally overarching arrow that has been shut down, and it is that the groundwater under Gardermoen should not be contaminated. There should be no doubt about that principle. It must be fixed once and for all: groundwater must not be contaminated. Therefore, it is serious that it has now been revealed that the current emission permit to the airport, i.e. Oslo Airport Gardermoen, is broken. This is, as the Committee says, ‘very critical’. I recommend to the Council of State and the Department to make maximum efforts to find solutions so that air de-icing fluid and de-icing fluid are cleaned in line with the assumptions that have always been on the basis. Once again: Under Gardermoen groundwater shall under no circumstances be contaminated. From Ullensaker and Nannestad municipalities and, to some extent, from others in the community, there is criticism that the routes of approach and departure on the Gardermoen are not being followed. Without becoming too technical, this means that the aeroplanes have different trajectories in and out to the aerodrome than those on which they are based. The core problem here is that the plane breaks down earlier than the ground, so that people living near the airport are plagued by noise – people who should not initially be plagued by aircraft noise. I shall not go into particular detail on the issue, but merely state that the Committee in the configuration requires compliance with the adopted rules of approach and departure. So finally the last point -- an important point. Not that the other points have been unimportant, but here it is a problem where it doesn't look as bright as with the other problems that have been on the Gardermo, which I said there has been great willingness to find solutions. I think of the air traffic controller situation. Here we have, it's just to admit, great challenges. The large increase in the number of new air movements due to Gardermoen also means that more air traffic controllers will be needed. There's a lack of that, and we have an idea, not least from the last question hour, that the problems may get stronger beyond the summer. There is reason to ask why the transport authorities allowed such a large increase in the number of air traffic movements, while the same transport authorities had to know that there was a partial lack of air traffic controllers. This is a major challenge, and the ministry must make maximum efforts to solve the problem in relation to the lack of air traffic controllers. It is, as I said, a great willingness to find solutions to the problems that have arisen along the way, and it must also be done as regards the air traffic controller situation. I am pleased that it seems that a unanimous increase today is in line with the Workers' Party's proposal that the Government present a plan for how to deal with the air traffic controller situation, and that this will be done later in the submission to the State budget in the autumn. So finally, I'm sure if there have been some problems with both the airport and with the expansion of the Gardermoban, I'm thinking about Rome's sport, I'm sure that when history is to be written in the next millennium – about the decision, prehistory and the expansion of the new main airport with the accommodation service – the decision to place the new main airport to Gardermoen and to build a new and forward-looking high-speed railway that would be the root of the housing service will have to be a good, correct and forward-looking decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e418	Inner. S. No 182 for 1998-1999 takes into account the completion of the Rome sport and the operating conditions at Oslo Airport Gardermoen. I have to remind you that it was the Right and Workers' Party that formed a majority when Oslo Airport Gardermoen and its associated accommodation service were adopted here in Stortinget. The Gardermoban was calculated at NOK 4.6 billion in 1992 and has since increased to NOK 9.5 billion – so far. The trail Gardermoen-Eidsvoll is lightened to the Railway Works – a cost of SEK 1.6 billion. The extra costs of sealing the Rome sport and damage to the house are not finally settled. So it's going to add up, and we can just try to guess what the final sum is going to be. According to St. pp. No 90 for 1991-1992, Gardermobanen was to become a very profitable project with a return of 7 pst. There was no end to good words about how good and profitable this project would be. Today we are left with a project that must have NOK 100 per person. passenger per passenger trip in subsidies to balance. So a ticket from Oslo Center to Gardermoen should have cost about 190 kroner. The private bus companies are currently operating that route for 1/3 of this amount. They are not subsidized, and in addition, they are making money. That's the difference between the socialist world and the real one. Furthermore, a two-year operating deficit shall be covered by the taxpayers. What other limited liability companies receive such a gift package from this room? The Progress Party has always considered that AS, whether they are State or private, should be treated equally. We have therefore consistently accepted every proposal for more and more money and instead asked the NSB Gardermobanen AS to borrow what they need in the private market. The Progress Party voted against the original proposal to build the Gardermoban AS and Oslo Airport Gardermoen. The advance party was the time of the feeling that private individuals could build and operate the airport, with the accommodation service. From the very beginning, there has been reason to criticise the management, follow-up of progress and economics, overview and control of the Gardermobanen AS project. Nor does the Progress Party see that debt restructuring is a solution for a proper assessment of the investments made in the Gardermobanen AS. I am aware that the Government has set up a group to carry out a broad review of the expansion of both the Gardermoban and Oslo Airport Gardermoen. The party of progress is eagerly waiting for that report.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e433	This case concerns four points: tightness of the service of the service of the Gardermoen business at Oslo Airport Gardermoen evaluation of the Gardermo project Let me do the last one first. This is far from the last time we are going to debate this topic. The government has set up a group to carry out a broad review of the planning and expansion of Gardermobanen and Oslo Airport. Work shall include both the planning phase, the development phase focusing on decision-making processes, responsibilities, organisation of work, financial estimates, cost management, quality assurance procedures and information flows. Particular attention shall be paid to environmental aspects. The report should have already been submitted, but the scale of the case has made it expected to be presented in June. That's when this report is presented and this information is presented to the Storting, we're going to have the real review of what went wrong, and what went well. That's when we're going to try to see who knew what, who should know, who got the information when they got it, and when it was notified further. The cancellation notice explains the latest cost estimates relating to the sealing of the Rome sports and what has happened since the case was mentioned last time in a document to Stortinget. The work on sealing is explained, and the tunnel is expected to open on 22 August, which I think most of us are looking forward to. The Committee also notes that one presupposes that the damage caused by the Gardermobanen to the settlement in Hellerud is being remedied and that the owners of the house are kept harmless, even in accordance with the declaration of assurance given. We can confirm that even before the opening of the Rome sport, the Gardermobanen is a success in terms of the number of passengers. How the economy of the company finally becomes, Stortinget has on a previous occasion said that one should return to after the first ordinary year. So there's no point in spending time on this right here. But the Gardermoban has as many passengers as one had hoped, perhaps more than one had hoped and believed in, at least considering that the Rome sport is not yet open. Then the journey time will be cut significantly, and the advantage of the train in relation to the car and bus will be even greater. We can record that the collective share of air passengers is about 60 pst. and that the train has a share of about 39 pst. But it is important to look closely at the importance of the ticket price and possible positive or negative consequences in further work. Unfortunately, Oslo Airport Gardermoen has not been as successful as the Gardermoban – in itself a perhaps unexpected situation. Few or no one would do well before the airport opened, claiming that the flight would be a success, while the airport would have to deal with significant entry problems. It can now be discussed whether the entry problems at the Gardermoen have been greater than for comparable aerodromes in the first months of operation. It is also worth taking into account that airlines must take their legitimate part in the responsibility for the fact that too many flights have been delayed and cancelled. When the companies can't hold enough crew, one can't blame the whole thing at the airport. However, it is not likely that there have been problems with the traffic diversion that have affected a large number of passengers. Baggage system and aeroplane de-icing are two key chords. Air traffic controllers are different, although the aerodrome as such cannot be caused by the fact that over a number of years there have not been trained enough air traffic controllers. Unfortunately, it is not a problem that can be solved overnight – we would have liked to see that – and one might ask if the responsible sleep during the hour at the time when the measures should have really been implemented relatively many years ago in order to meet the situation that one in advance knew would come. Finally, let me stress that the environmental problems that have arisen at the Gardermoen are an overall committee concerned with solving. Both fly-off liquid and runway de-icing fluid must be handled in line with assumptions. Let me end by mentioning that there would actually have created interesting new opportunities for several of the batches that show environmental exposure in relation to the emissions problems on the Gardermo, also would have been willing to discuss the environmental problems that air traffic itself represents, and not least the unnecessary emissions that result from the large amount of aircraft that go with a frighteningly low coating.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e467	St.meld. No 31, About the completion of Rome’s sport and about the operating conditions of Gardermoen, in many ways a brief review of the status of the two projects mentioned represents, overall, the largest investments made in Norwegian commerce in recent years – apart from Bergensbanen, it may be the largest ones that have been made. There is a political history behind both projects and, of course, also a major political disagreement around it. It may not be so strange, therefore, that the keenest followers of the measures have difficulty seeing that something could have been done little differently. With regard to the Gardermoban and the conditions associated with the sport of Rome, we've discussed this in the hall many times. In this way the message does not contain so much new information. But the positive thing is that in August we can use the Rome sport. We're all happy about that. We've been looking forward to that, and I also think consumers will appreciate it very much. But at the same time, it is only to confirm what some of us have long pointed out, that the assumptions for this project, which was business profitability from the first day, would not be the case – and that is not the case. In fact, it was already clear when the majority in Stortinget took out the costs of the extension to Eidsvoll and thus reduced the costs by NOK 1.7 billion. It's obvious to most people, no matter what bookkeeping you use, that the track is currently running short. Everyone's happy. Everyone stresses it. That so many take the track is good for the environment. However, it should not be concealed that the tickets are substantially subsidized. In fact, it has something to do with taking serious action, seeing if action is to be taken and what action should be taken. I think accepting the situation as it is is a good prerequisite for doing the right actions in the next round. How then would the situation be without this subsidization or the collective share on the track, is in many ways uninteresting, for now we have spent so much money on it that we should all be concerned about getting the best possible use of this project. Then the future shows how much debt the path is able to bear on a business-economic basis. I actually think that the very warmest speakers are doing the right thing to let this situation slip inward, so that we get a production that is sober and neutral. The right has thought that regardless of the timing of the overall review that Stortinget will do later, one should already start working on how to organise this path. We've been busy looking into whether you can do anything on the ownership side. I stress that we are concerned that it is possible to attract other actors – in the tourism industry and what it may be – who are interested in using the track in their marketing process and thus untie travellers to take the track, so that in the future we will continue to have a high collective share on the track. I want to ask you not to push that idea away for dogmatic ideological reasons. What we should now be concerned about is how we can get the most back for the investment we've made. And of course, we can sit and argue forever about whether this was wrong or right, but it's in many ways uninteresting in the moment the money's been spent. And then I ask that, for ideological reasons of state ownership, you not lock yourself up completely, completely. In that way, this message is in many ways, as I read it, an opening for such a debate. It surprised me a little bit that so few in the committee were prepared to discuss that part in order to give those signals to the ministry that they also saw the possibility of going that way. But now let's hope – as we say in the West, there's hope in hanging strings – that, after all, you haven't completely locked it. There has been little noise around the construction of the airport itself. It is a project that I have experienced during the time I have been on Stortinget. In that way, it may well have come as a big surprise to us that the operation of the airport itself would be a problem. Once again, I think it's incredibly important not to stand and say that this airport has worked perfectly well. It has something to do with reality, and with the ability to solve problems -- that's to say, well, here we have problems. And then you have to sit down and agree that we have a problem – and then solve it together. Again to the same point as at the Gardermoban: we have spent an incredible amount of money. And then, of course, it has to be that, when it's done, we add aside all the discussions about where the airport is, and look at how we can make it work for the users. I stress this: it's consumers' airport, it's not SAS, it's Braathen's, it's consumers' airport. They're the ones who suffer when the airport doesn't work, and they're the ones we should put in the center. Then I fully agree with the rapporteur on groundwater – it is indisputable. It was a clinking clear assumption from this hall that what we've seen should not happen. This is one of the things that really disappointed me. So the Right – and probably more – has wondered that this with the capacity of the air traffic controllers never finds their solution. Governments and governments come and go, but the air traffic controller problem is over. I look forward with excitement to what the new Council of State has been planning to do, and I noticed that he was in a good – I must say striking – line during the spontaneous Question Time on Wednesday said that ‘no one is born as an air traffic controller’. Yes, exactly – but then we have to train them! I'm surprised you haven't seen it too far. When we build a new airport to increase capacity, for the liberalisation of aviation, and have not been able to take that into account, I must say that I am surprised, President – yes, I am very surprised.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e491	Yes, the time of wonder is not over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e494	Again Stortinget has been presented with a case that mentions the Rome art. One of the highlights of this announcement is that Rome’s sport can be opened up for traffic in August 1999. But there are still some questions about the Gardermoban that we have to come back to later. Final cost figures for Rome's sports, and thus the entire Gardermoban, we are not allowed to settle with contractors and decided in arbitration proceedings. So it's not the last time we're debating the Rome and the Gardermoban in this room. The majority of the population have previously said that the environmental aspect should be added to the decisive weight of the work on sealing the sport of Rome. When we're in St.meld. No 31 provides an overview of the results of the sealing work until 18 February 1999, and we see that the sealing work for both Lutvatten West, Lutvatten-Sona and Puttjärnbeck resulted in a leakage of the concession requirement. In the case of Puttjern-sona, the measurement results clearly show that, despite the high intensity of sealing work, the reduction of leaks has not been closed since June 1998. Nevertheless, additional densities have been carried out in this son until February 1999, although the leakage was thus below the concession requirement in June 1998. At least there's no point in finishing the seal work too soon. When installing also a water infiltration plant in the Puttjerson tunnel in order to ensure the water balance also for dry years, and a monitoring programme is in place, I believe that environmental considerations have been taken care of in the best possible way – when the tunnel is first built. In my opinion, the sets and building damage in the building areas above the tunnel are now being handled in a defenceable way. These are the consequences of the tunnel construction that have caused the greatest damage to individuals in the area. I understand that they are very concerned about this debt, but I hope that one of the measures selected will deal with the problems that have arisen in a good way. A pleasant development for the Gardermoban is the high market share of passengers using the track. When about 60 pst. by air passengers using collective means of transport — bus and rail — this is positive. In the past, the uncertainty that exists about the future ignition of the flight has been dealt with in the face of the Storting. It has in previous cases doctors that one should wait until one had a year of operation before making an assessment of the value of the company NSB Gardermobanen AS. We will therefore come back to this matter later. But it is important that when the financial issues come up, it has to keep a full overview of all – and I will go under all – the costs of building the Gardermoban. So far, Gardermoen’s new airport has been characterized by entry problems. I guess no one thought it would be completely without any entry problems to use the airport, but I think a lot of people think that the entry problems were both longer and more extensive than what was reflected. Wintering, especially in the case of a lot of ice, has caused serious problems. It also includes: problems with the luggage storage system, problems with the lighting devices and long waiting times in both check-in and security control created difficulties and irritating passengers. I agree with the committee leader that the airport is in the first place for passengers. These difficulties also have our contributing causes for the problems that the airlines have had and that have led to cancellations. A serious problem at the Gardermo is the de-icing problem, both in terms of runway and air clearance. When it turns out that the internal management, control and reporting at Oslo Airport AS has not worked well both in the operational design and during the operation itself, this is serious. It is essential that in the future there will be good enough procedures for de-icing runways and planes. And I have, just as others have done before, wanted to stretch under the fact that the groundwater should not be polluted. The lack of air traffic controllers has been a minimum factor when starting up at the Gardermoen. This shouldn't come as a surprise. This situation must have been known for years and should have been under arrest long before the new Gardermoen airport was opened. In view of the gravity of the situation, the Committee asks the Government to submit a plan to ensure sufficient capacity in the air traffic management service, and I am looking forward to such a plan.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e516	I am not going to spend my barely measured time writing history about decisions that were taken and what decisions should possibly have been taken. Nor should I say so much about what we agree on, about Marka, about groundwater, about the damage to homes. I can only say that the representative Ringstad had a point when it came to sealing and the times there. I want to relate to an airport that is in use, and the Fly train, of which I am an enthusiastic user. Let me start with the housing service. It's positive that we have a collective share of about 60 p.m., but it's a danger signal when the Flytrain's share seems to sink a little bit. It can be linked to price increase. In August, when we open Rome, driving time on the Gardermoban reduces from 33 to 19 minutes. It will be a great competitive advantage. But above all, we also get a flight frequency that means we don't have to bring the timetable anymore, because then it's just going to the station and going on the next train. And, not least, we get a capacity increase for rail traffic in the capital area, with the importance it can have for local traffic and public transport in the capital. We look forward to the opening of Rome. It has many positive effects, but I have one warning: the flight train must not be priced out of the market. In the relationship between passenger share and the economy of the company NSB Gardermobanen AS, the collective share must weigh more heavily. We in SV think it is sad that the rest of the committee will not think anything clear about it. I think the case rapporteur was recently clearer in his speech from the pulpit than he was in the remarks in the vote. With regard to the opening of the airport, there have been major entry problems — too large. Some childhood diseases have to be taken into account. But not all of the entry problems are due to Oslo Airport Gardermoen, the airlines also have to take part in their jacket. Some of the entry problems should have been prepared for Oslo Airport. Gardermoen has, after all, been used as an airport over a time. Winter on the Gardermo should be a known phenomenon, and the need for de-icing should not be surprising. Those who have been in line for security controls while the planes have left them have probably dropped expressions that are not suitable for this pulpit – if the president is awake, and I can see that he is – therefore I will not try to give examples of such expressions here. I also do not believe that those who have jumped from the exit to the exit as the boards have changed the instructions, or it has been called from the speakers, have blessed the airport. That seems a little bit amateur. Another problem escapes politicians: they are concerned about the number of aircraft movements, which have increased significantly, without having increased the traffic base accordingly. It's flying on empty planes. Competition is called that. But some good environmental policies are not, and there have been many of them from this pulpit today. Then you also say that there is not enough air traffic controller capacity to deal with the increased flight activity. This flight activity results in irregularities, beyond regularity, cancellations, etc. So what does the Storting do? Well, the opposite of what they should do. I would like to refer to a decision taken a few weeks ago in this Chamber by a majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right, in which they changed the seat fee to a passenger fee, with the same revenue for the State – the pure premiere of flying with empty seats, instead of going the other way and saying that you should actually have increased the financial cost of flying with empty aircraft. This is mole policy at its worst. And then it doesn't keep standing here and being worried about the pulpit, when you do in practical political action the opposite of what you should do. At the end, I want to say a little about the companies – sail if we have no responsibility for them. Because it's pretty amateur when people get to the airport in good time, and they're at the check-in counters when the planes leave. Companies should have such a capacity that people come with the planes they're supposed to have when they meet in time. There are a lot of examples of this. And then when you're so unhappy that you don't reach the plane, or it's cancelled, it's supposed to be possible to rebook in a reasonable way without having to wait a long time in line and maybe not make the next flight. The companies do not have a capacity that is good enough. It is also not a pleasant thing to sit in the plane waiting for a message while perhaps other flights go from other exits to the same destinations. The airlines have a tendency to fly at the same time. So they should also tighten up. What I am now looking forward to, is to be allowed to sit on a plane for 200 km/h up to the Gardermoen, from August.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e539	The President would point out that the word'molbo's policy' is not a good parliamentary expression in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e542	But that's very true!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e550	It will not be an exaggeration to say that the completion of the Rome sport has offered more complications than what was expected. When it was clear in 1997 that the water over the Rome sport was about to be drained away, and that there were sentence injuries that were also due to the leakage of the tunnel, there was a situation that had to be taken seriously – and the Government has done so. After the then Minister of Transport Odd Einar Dørum prioritised the leak in Rome’s sport as job no. 1 a, I think it was, great resources were put in to close the leaks. Measurements now show that groundwater levels have mainly been restored in the eastern part of the country. Leakages have now been reduced by approx. 1 400 litres per minute from January 1998 to February this year. The left is satisfied with the Government's action to remedy the environmental damage caused by the construction of Rome's sport. We are confident that the Government will closely monitor the areas affected by Rome's sport and that the work to secure the environment will be a high priority. The left is also satisfied that the Gardermobanen now works well after four months of operation. Up towards 40 pst. by air passengers, take the Fly train to Gardermoen, approx. 20 pst. use other collective offers. This is unique. The left shall work for the maintenance of the high collective share. This is essential in order to reduce the environmental problems associated with aerodrome traffic. Therefore, it is good that the majority of the Committee assumes that the high collective participation will lead the assessment of the Gardermoban. The left is concerned that the emissions permit has been exceeded. It was – and still is – a crystal clear premise for the aerodrome that under Gardermoen groundwater would not be contaminated. The left is pleased that we have a government that places decisive emphasis on the environmental situation at the Gardermoen. We are confident that the Government will ensure that the measures that need to be taken to address the damage are implemented and that this will not happen again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e568	Let me start by saying that it is good that we now see light in the tunnel – in the Rome tunnel. It will provide a shorter journey time for passengers and an environmental benefit in that more people find it attractive to use trains instead of private cars. That's the most important thing in this context. Now it remains for us in this house to follow the price development. It is important that passengers do not have to pay so much for this excellent transport offer that it is not used because of the high fares that people do not find it profitable and instead use their car. It's going to be a notable sign for a commuting couples from Kongswinger when both of them have to pay NOK 500 more a month. For the Workers' Party, it is important that as many as possible choose to drive collectively, and then it is important to keep an eye on the ticket price. A joint responsibility for this lies with this house. In the light of the announced increase in train travel prices from 22 August, I have been in contact with NSB BA to assess the possibility of reduced prices for train travel for commuters and travellers with monthly tickets. The price increase is related to the fact that NSB BA will pay a fee to NSB Gardermobanen AS when the Rome sport is put into service. This is a result of Storting’s assumption that the Gardermoban should be self-financing. When reviewing the economic situation of the Gardermoban, it is important for us to look at the income of the Gardermoban and thus the possibility to take up the passenger payment. No one's earned that all commuters choose a private car instead of a train. Oslo Airport AS Gardermoen wants the 200 million. kr that has now been granted, become the functional and efficient aerodrome in which we all hoped. Unlike the representative of Thore Aksel Nistad, I'm actually very proud of the airport. Unfortunately, the problems have been a lot about winter operation, especially in winter conditions, with a lot of ice and snow. This will now be corrected, and that is certainly positive. Now my concern is about the lack of air traffic controllers. If it can please the representative Kofoed-Larsen, the Labour Party must, of course, also take its share of the blame for this situation. But we now share the opportunity to look forward. In fact, training in Norway is too poor, both in terms of capacity and content. I would like to ask the State Council to take a closer look at air traffic controller training in Norway, the Swedish Aeronautics Agency’s School LVSS, so that we can get a better school for air traffic controllers in the long term – but it is therefore in the long term. It may be possible for the Council of State to also look into the coordination between the OSL Gardermoen and the Aviation Administration, the East Norway/Smoking Region, in order to enhance efficiency and improve resource use and to avoid unnecessary administrative and wage competition. The situation is today, we need to get out of the country to ‘borrow’ air traffic controllers. Nothing must be unruly. Otherwise, on a standing foot, I can get an air traffic controller. I can mention a specific case, where a trained air traffic controller from Croatia – married and residing in Norway and a decent person – has the formal professional competence to work in the aviation service. However, she is not given security clearance because a security agreement between Norway and Croatia is missing. We have to be able to sort this out. When we know how much lack there is on air traffic controllers, everything has to be done. I expect the Minister of Transport to do everything he can to ensure that Norway – when tourists arrive – does not get into a embarrassing situation. They don't want to understand that you don't get to land or easy because an air traffic controller needs to have food, or maybe for natural reasons even three of them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e587	With regard to the operational conditions at Oslo Airport Gardermoen, the Swedish Aviation Agency, on behalf of the Ministry of Transport, carried out a broad evaluation of the operational performance, operational experience and environmental conditions at the main aerodrome at Gardermoen, and concluded that it is on the right track to obtain the functional and efficient aerodrome as foreseen. As someone who uses the airport often, I can't share that conclusion. I don't think I've experienced getting off the farm for the scheduled time once after the airport opened, and I have to say that it's terribly frustrating to be late for a meeting where you're going to give a speech. I don't just want to blame the airport, the airlines have to take their share of the blame. Several elements have created problems after the opening of the aerodrome: airspace conversion, lack of availability of electronic information, luggage facilities that have not worked satisfactorily, sick leave of staff, lack of air traffic controllers, snow, fog, etc. It would be thought that it was the first time it was built airport in Norway, and that winter was an unknown concept, but that is not the case. Before the Gardermoen operation was started, you should be sure that everything worked. It is also amazing how often both a wheelchair and a escalator stand. I now assume that Oslo Airport Gardermoen is making maximum efforts to eliminate the operating problems, so that the regularity targets set for the airport are met. It is also necessary to submit a plan as soon as possible to increase the capacity of the air traffic controller service and to see whether or not the air traffic controller school admission tests can be conducted. It seems a little strange that of several thousand who are applying, there are only a few who do not. One reason might be that you meet unprepared for the admission test. A course before the test might have improved the situation. It is not acceptable that the lack of air traffic controllers should lead to delays and suspensions in air traffic. The problems arising from the de-icing of the aeroplanes, where run-off has caused soil contamination, should have been known in advance so that this could have been avoided. Here you have experience from other airports, and the concrete of places where aircraft are advertised with de-icing fluid collection systems cannot be so difficult. I hope that the situation is taken seriously by both aerodrome management and airlines, so that users do not experience a new winter of chaos. The security controls should also be subject to a review. At Gardermoen it is not possible to follow their guests to the waiting area without having a ticket. This is not pleasant when the waiting time for delayed flights is long, and it is a child to follow. It should be expected that when a new airport was built to replace Fornebu, it would be better and not worse for those travelling by air.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e601	The opening of the new main airport at Gardermoen and its associated accommodation system on 8 October 1998 marked the start of a new era for air traffic and the provision of collective services in the East. The new main aerodrome has a very important position in the overall and coordinated aviation system in Norway, and it is therefore particularly important that it offers users high quality of service and cost-efficiency while respecting safety and environmental requirements. I'm not going to conceal that over the winter season that we've been putting behind us, there have been significant operating problems at the main aerodrome – which many have also been involved in – and that this was reinforced by the high level of public expectations for it. In particular, operating stability has not been good enough under difficult winter conditions. There has also been unacceptable contamination of the land at the airport. I would just as much like to commend Oslo Airport AS because the company has shown a good willingness to clean up the operational and pollution problems. The company has recently announced measures to improve winter operating capacity from the coming season. I am confident that the good cooperation established by Oslo Airport AS and the airlines will help to make the solutions that are being implemented worthwhile. I can also assure you that the work on the Category II and III A approach system is of the highest priority and that, as the Committee also points out, these will be put into service as soon as safety permits. With the opening of the main aerodrome, the number of flights has increased greatly, and this has pushed the capacity of airspace across the east. The Aviation Agency will make it possible to ensure the capacity of air traffic services and, in particular, to provide training for sufficient air traffic controllers for the coming years. I fully support the Committee's view that it is necessary to present a plan for the action, and I will come back to this in the context of the State budget for 2000. I noticed that the committee is pleased that Rome's sport is now open to ordinary traffic on 22 August. The Committee stresses the need to continue to monitor closely the situation of the east and other areas affected by the sport of Rome and the need to continue to give high priority to environmental protection. I agree with that, and the NSB Gardermobanen AS will follow up on this at, among other things. to report on the environmental situation of the concessional areas in the east of the NVE and by monitoring outbound areas. For the treatment of St.prp. No 1 for 1998-99, Appendix No. 8, Stortinget joined the proposal to grant 550 million. kr in addition to the amount previously granted of SEK 750 million. kr for extra work related to the sealing of the Rome sport. Finally, there is a ruling in the arbitration case between NSB Gardermobanen AS and the contractor of the Rome sports. The NSB Gardermobanen AS is doomed to pay SRG 90 million. kr, excluding VAT and interest. Following disclosure by NSB BA, this can be covered within the overall loan envelope for development in 1999. However, I will come back to this in a suitable way. It was in connection with the treatment of St.prp. No 39 for 1997-98, whether the NSB Gardermobanen AS" economy, considered that a valuation of the company should be deferred until the outcome of more than one year’s operation is available, so that a better basis for assessing the company’s profitability is available. I intend to be able to present the final statement of financial position of NSB Gardermobanen AS in connection with the company's financial statements for 1999 in the spring of 2000. I have noticed that a majority in the Committee stresses the importance of continuing the high collective share and that this must be the leading factor in the economic assessment to be carried out. Originally, the development of the Gardermoban was based on a socio-economic profitability assessment. The business profitability was estimated to be so good that the costs of the development of the road and the purchase of trains could be financed by loans and covered by traffic revenue. In the case of future taxi stops for the air train, the aim must be to find the price that produces the best economic result, while maintaining a high market share. I therefore consider it particularly important that the company uses the current operating year to identify the reactions of travellers to price changes in order to obtain the best possible knowledge of the price sensitivity in this market. Should there be a conflict between the high market share objective and the financial interests, I am of the opinion that it would be right to focus most on the socio-economic interests linked to high market share, based on the main rationale for choosing a train-based collective system for the new airport based on socio-economic profitability. Then I ask you to draw me up on a three-minute post later to provide a practical supplementary information.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e631	It's okay. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e636	The Council of State was concerned that the overall economic situation of the Gardermoban should be reviewed — and determined — by this meeting in the spring of 2000. However, I would challenge the Council of State in relation to what he addressed at the end of his speech, and recall the comment in the present position, where the majority «exemplifies the importance of continuing the high level of collective participation and considers that this must lead to the assessment to be carried out». I would like to ask the Council of State to take a closer look at the issue – and ask him to hear what he has thought about the future of the Gardermoban and the economic situation, and what he puts in the majority's remark. Then we are made aware that the Gardermoban has not yet been authorised by the Railway Authority to allow the Airtrain to run for 210 km per hour, as requested. As far as I know, the Fly train is today allowed to run for 160 km per hour. I want to ask the Council of State what the department has done, and what is now done, to get permission for the flight to run for 210 km an hour. It would be – yes, now that Molbo policy was not a parliamentary expression, the previous President firmly stated – extremely remarkable if the Rome sport and everything in this regard are clear on 22 August, while the department’s supervisory body does not approve that the high-speed train can be driven at high speed. So, as I said, I want to ask the Council of State whether the department has been in this problem, and what might be done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e652	The President will be told that when a President has characterised an expression as 'non-parliamentary', it is not necessary to repeat it at all later.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e655	First, the comments about the Railway Authority and their assessment of the speed of trains on the Gardermoban. The railway supervision is not just the department's supervision, it is all the railway supervision. This means, in other words, that they are responsible for carrying out the overall assessments to be carried out in the light of a safety and safety assessment. I assume that the Railway Authority has not in any way delayed, or will delay, the approval procedure itself, and I have reason to believe that the processing itself will not delay for what is to happen on 22 August of this year. I think things fall into place within a reasonable time. When it comes to the question of what I as the Council of State would be doing, and at the bottom, for my assessment of socio-economic profitability versus business profitability, I think I was quite clear in my statement. I have noticed what the committee has said; it is the socio-economic profitability assessment that will be the starting point. Of course, it is important to assess the price level of the Gardermobanen AS, its consequences, and the reactions of the audience who use it – and then make an overall assessment. But I remind you that this track was built to increase the collective share of the main aerodrome we've just started – then the environmental argument weighed very heavily, and it will also weigh very heavily in the overall assessment that needs to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e662	The council informed me that he would come back later about the economy of the Gardermoban AS – and I stress AS. It is gratifying that many state enterprises have now become limited liability companies, which is entirely in line with the views of the Progress Party. Then it is that the Storting has now surrendered NOK 1.6 billion by transferring the Gardermoen-Eidsvoll railway section to the railway station. Furthermore, a two-year operating deficit shall be covered by deducting the deficit from the debt. The State Council party was also in favour of both of these subsidies by a State limited liability company. In these days, even more state enterprises are going to become AS, and, as I said in the beginning, I think it's very happy. But then I have a question in mind: will this become a norm for state AS in the future, or is this a one-time case?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e674	Being a fortune - teller in a political context is dangerous. I'm therefore going to be a little careful to predict very far ahead of time in terms of state AS. But let me remind you that some of the issues that are now being dealt with in the Storting concern the partial privatisation of state ASs, mergers, mergers, etc. This company that we are now talking about is a clearly owned AS, established to build and implement a special project. In other words, we need to see this project in a long-term perspective. We need to see if the assumptions and the leadership of the Stortinget for the project can be met to the maximum. And before you do that, it's not right to draw conclusions, either in a positive or negative direction. I am therefore saying that I do not see it as natural that the Gardermobanen AS will be anything but a total public owned AS in the foreseeable future. In the case of subsidies, as the representative Nistad spoke about, the Council of State relates to the decisions taken by the Stortinget, to the assessments made by the Stortinget and to the conclusions reached by the Stortinget. However, this will be part of the submission of the Stortinget to the next year when an overall assessment is to be carried out. Therefore, there is nothing to suggest that the Ministry of Transport will keep any amount or information out of it. Everything should of course be on the table of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e684	It surprised me that the Council of State in its intervention did not affect the damage caused by the extension of the Gardermoban to the settlement in Hellerud and the surrounding areas, and the significant disadvantages and insecurity suffered by the residents. It has been difficult for residents to speak to the authorities, and the proceedings have gone very slowly. Can the Council of State confirm that the selection that is now going through the entire Gardermo project will also thoroughly address the damage caused to the population and the problems for the residents around Hellerud? Can the Council of State say anything about the progress of the proceedings on the notified damage? And can the Council of State confirm that residents and owners of homes will, as far as possible, be kept harmless in this expansion?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e689	I think I touched on this area fairly concretely in my first post. I referred, among other things: to the Committee's observations and underlinings. As I said in my first post, the situation for the East and other areas will be followed very closely, and the work to ensure the environment will be given the highest priority. This will be followed up, as the Committee points out. The NSB Gardermobanen AS will follow this up at, among others. to report on the environmental situation of the concessional areas in the east of the NVE and by monitoring outbound areas. When I was so concrete in my first post, it's because this is an area that has attracted a lot of attention and that has produced reactions both politically and in the community. In other words, it is our common task to find practical and economic solutions to the situation that has arisen. There's good contact with the local environment. It takes longer to bring things to a close if many actors are to be on the road. It has therefore been necessary to address the guarantee scheme with which the Committee is aware and which will ensure that in the future it will also be possible to meet its requirements. In other words, from the department's side, from the Gardermobanen AS' side, it is most strongly suggested that what Mr Gjerpe Hansen pointed out would be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e700	First a little bit about this with the pilot leader training. I want to share a thought, or a suspicion, with the Minister of Transport. It's clearly important how many people are admitted, but it's also important how many trained air traffic controllers come out at the other end. I want to ask the Minister of Transport to keep an eye on the dropout, or maybe I'll say the elimination, of candidates during the process, because in a market there are some who also have an interest in the lack of air traffic controllers. The Council of State should therefore keep a little eye on the process – for who is it that decides who will get to the other end? But then to the Gardermoban. It is clear that the Stortinget does not have to determine the ticket prices – and is not deleted in an AS, but not otherwise. But objectives may conflict with each other, and I do not think that the speech of the Council of State was as clear as he said it was. To put it this way: it is clear that if you increase the ticket price in August to 130 or 140 kroner, losing passengers can lead to a better economy for the company. The size has set a goal of profitability for the company to which the company is obliged to deal. At the same time, Stortinget has a wish for maximum collective participation. These two objectives may conflict, and this is a dilemma for the company. But for the company, it's corporate economic overarching if it doesn't get any other signals from us. This is where I think they have to be given a signal in time that the actual collective share is the main goal, and we may have to go in and do the necessary economic operations to achieve this main goal. If not, I think the company is first obliged to think about the business economy, and that may mean lower collective participation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e709	I see enough that I need the three minutes I have already subscribed to to answer some of the questions that the representative Myrvoll also raised. In that answer, I would like to try to go into the air traffic controller training more specifically, as others before today have been involved, what we see in structure further forward, how many we can get out this year, and how far in time we are now planning. Let me then answer another question, from the representative, Mr. Gjerpe Hansen, who I did not get a response to, but which I had intended to raise a little later today. This is about the evaluation committee for the Gardermo project. Then it is my duty to state that the evaluation committee for the Gardermoproseek, which should have delivered its report at the beginning of June, has again asked for a deadline to be postponed until 1 September 1999. I am prepared to respond to this request. When it comes to the question of whether I was clear enough in my first contribution to business profitability versus socio-economic profitability, it may be, when you read the minutes afterwards, that it appears much clearer than it can do in a row. However, I believe it is quite clear that I have put the socio-economic assessment at the bottom of my conclusion. This does not mean that one should not include the business economic side in the assessments. There may be conflicts between these two things, and in such a situation, what I'm saying is that then the socio-economic assessments have to count the most. Then we'll see what experience we have now after prices have been raised for the Gardermoban, and what conclusions it can give in terms of public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e718	In the Stortinges Question Time last Wednesday, the Council of State said that he felt that his predecessors in this government had to increase the number of flight movements because the airlines expected the last year. A parallel to that could be that you had to let several trains into the track without knowing that the light signals worked well enough, and there is no lucky situation. Does the Council of State believe that there are expectations, not capacity, that will be decisive for how many are available? And how will the Council of State deal with the question of further increase in traffic, which may become relevant for airlines, in a situation where he knows that there is no air traffic controller capacity sufficient to avoid the traffic already existing?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e725	The representative Schjøtt-Pedersen is quite right in saying that there were great expectations related to the opening of the Gardermo. Not least, this hall and public equipment had contributed to creating expectations of what was possible at the moment we had a new main aerodrome, both of movements, the capacity to provide services to different airlines, and the greater opportunity that airlines perceived when they had a total new airport. These expectations of the audience, of the airlines, of politicians – among all – made the pressure around the opening very great. I don't want to be among those who criticize this north and down, as some have done today. If we look later at what happened in the first few months, it might be that the opening of the Gardermo turns out to have gone much better than many comparable openings of similar airports. As far as air traffic controller capacity is concerned, I admit, as I did in the oral Questionnaire, that the number of air movements in the opening phase, the conversion of airspace in Europe plus the familiarisation of airlines with the situation at a new main aerodrome became a greater challenge than we had anticipated. Everything is now being put in place to solve the air traffic controller challenge, both through education, by recruiting abroad, and not least by re-assessing this with practice sites: can we use other practice sites than we have done so far, thus expanding that part of the capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e732	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e735	Prospects are changing rapidly in politics and in social debate. When Oslo’s new airport opened in October last year, the perspective was that the airport was a success, and the flight was a failure. Half a year later, the perspective was that the flight was a success, and the airport was a failure. I am convinced that after entering the airport and the accommodation systems and getting over the childhood diseases, we will see that both the flight and the airport are a success. It's an extension that we can rightly be proud of. It is very interesting to note from the committee that the collective housing system has worked very well. According to the report, one now has a market share of 42 pst. for rail transport even before the entry into service of Rome, and that there are in addition 20 pst. travelling by bus is a very satisfactory development. It is now important to ensure that the high level of collective participation is maintained and, as the representative, Myrli, on behalf of the Workers' Party, has previously stated, it is right that the consideration of the collective participation must also lead the assessment of future operations. There is a large project to run in. Nevertheless, there is enough reason to point out that the operating situation has not been fully satisfactory at the aerodrome in the first six months of its operation. I am pleased that both the airport and the airlines have put in place measures to solve the problems, and I think it is important that the airlines also go into their own business and look at what can be improved. Maybe there's been a tendency to push too much responsibility over at the airport. There is reason to note that, on the part of the airlines, the capacity of the air traffic controller service is now the main challenge for the continued operation of the aerodrome. It is not satisfactory that there is a need for stopping or significant delays in air traffic as a result of a lack of capacity in air traffic services. I also think there is reason to point out that the problems we are seeing here have probably been reinforced by allowing a significant increase in air traffic. After being in contact with different users of the aerodrome, the Workers’ Party, for a time, took up the need to draw up a plan to ensure the future capacity of the air traffic controller service. I am pleased that a unanimous committee is now asking the Government to present such a plan, at the latest in connection with the state budget for the year 2000. I expect the Government in such a plan not only to assess the measures that have been so far assessed, but also to consider non-traditional solutions – taking into account security – to see if a faster escalation of capacity can be achieved to meet the needs that lie there. We know that there are already different measures in place, if not enough to meet the situation. The fact that the size of a plan is also pointing out is that what has been achieved by measures so far is not satisfactory. As I pointed out in my reply, there is every reason to question the fact that the department allowed the increase in the number of flight movements without knowing whether one had air traffic controller capacity that was large enough. On the part of the Workers' Party, we attach great importance to increasing air traffic controller capacity, and we will probably find it reasonable that the increase in the number of air traffic controllers must take place in such a way that one is sure that one has large enough air traffic controller capacity to handle the increase. Here it is not enough to refer to expectations. The government that sits has an overall responsibility at all times to ensure that you don't get to more than you know that there is capacity. I assume that the Council of State will take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e756	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e759	Hopefully, we now see, at least in this round, the end of the treatment of the environmental scandal associated with the construction of Rome's sport, although environmental damage cannot be corrected, only corrected. I think the committee position is very good, and I guess we're all looking forward to the train being able to take even more of the traffic to the airport, and we're getting less air pollution in Groruddalen. In particular, I think the clear message is that those who live in Hellerud and who have suffered damage to their houses and properties, according to the guarantee statement, are to be kept financially harmless. The Ministry believes that the situation in East Marka is now under control, and I hope they do. Now, when I ask for the floor, it is to remind the Council of State and the company of the importance of following developments closely in the future and being prepared for remedial action if necessary. Both the East and the House owners are likely to suffer new damage. Likely, the danger is great, and the damage can only come about in a long time. It is then important that the department ensures that Gardermobanen AS has the expertise and resources to monitor developments closely and is able to follow the environment fully in the future. It is not necessary for the conductors to operate with environmental monitoring at full speed up the valley. We need monitoring programmes for many years, and responsibility for this needs to be anchored organisationally and financially. Some people must have the concrete responsibility for this. Eastland is an important area for outdoor life and recreation for many thousands of people. Environmental monitoring is therefore important for many years, not least in order to preserve the natural environment for future generations. Then we all look forward to the evaluation report – about what went wrong, and why it went so terribly wrong. Not only in terms of transport policy, but also in terms of control, we are very interested in how such scandals can be avoided in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e772	The representative Sverre Myrli was in on the storywriting, and gave a description that I personally cannot share at all, but the future gets to show who gets right. However, my view is that one of the chapters in that history will be the broken environmental policy illusions that lie behind the government's handling of this matter. In my opinion, the credibility of the Government's environmental policy is at stake here. On that occasion, I will show that the Government, among other things, have been notified to ESA for breach of the EEA Agreement and maintain the precautionary principle, so it will be exciting to see when that judgment is available. But it is evidenced, among others. in the book «Mighty of Life and Death», the lack of research work leading to the construction of the sport of Rome. What is also a fact is that the government has its expertise that has said that now everything is in the best order. But in the municipality of Oslo, there was skepticism about this expertise and its independence. This is why a geo-technical commission has been used, with some of the country's foremost expertise in the field of science, and that is quite the opposite. For example, leakage within the sport of Rome leads to a significant risk of damage to buildings and other infrastructure, and so on: water filtration on a permanent basis will lead to permanent uncertainty. What is even worse, in my opinion, is the statement by the same geotechnical commission that the builder has also not analysed the limitations for all the future of such a comprehensive water filtration system on the use of land and the subsoil in the construction zone. So in my opinion, it is asked whether the government here has committed an even greater violation of the precautionary principle than it has been notified to ESA.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e784	For the residents around the new main airport at Gardermoen, noise is a big problem, just like it was at Fornebu. Number of 600-700 flight movements per. 24 hours, and a few days over it, say something about the volume. That many of the planes are half empty or barely that, neither improves the situation. In December 1996, the Swedish Aviation Agency sent out a brochure in a circulation of 50,000 copies to all households around the airport. Here all the airways were described, the principle was that all the planes should follow a fixed trajectory up to the noise-critical altitude, and then go towards a particular destination. This was drawn on maps that clear lines, and everyone could relate to where the planes were going to come. The routes were based on the principle of minimising the burden of aircraft noise, and a noise insulation programme for dwellings, based on these routes, was implemented. However, the reality has turned out to be completely different. If, for example: enter the monthly report of February 1999 on the noise and trasé monitoring system, published by the OSL, there are two maps showing the situation of 4000 landings and 5000 take-offs respectively during randomly selected periods in February. A little freely described might say that there are planes all over the place. The trajectories in the brochure of December 1996 are not easily recognizable. This is an unsustainable situation for the residents around the airport. The fundamental question here is whether low altitude aeroplanes, as is the case for take-off and landing, shall be controlled in such a way as to minimise the handicaps to the occupants of the aerodrome and the compensation to be given to those suffering excessive noise loads or not to be controlled. Today, as I said, the situation is perceived to be unsustainable. The planes go up very quickly to noise-critical altitude, then to choose the fastest way to their destination. This is probably okay for the airlines, but unsustainable for the residents around the airport. The local community around the aerodrome must have a real influence on the design of the airways. The local community's demand for noise reduction and predictability contrasts with the airline's desire to fly the shortest route between two points. But for an airport that is located in a densely populated area within the country, this principle must give way. I am pleased that an overall committee points out these issues in its comment in the setting. The night-closed aerodrome requirement was not complied with. There are restrictions on routes and aircraft types during the night period. The notification reports exceedances of eight, fifteen and two respectively in November, December and January; in February and March there have been three and twenty-three exceedances. There must be a requirement to minimise exceedances in the case of night traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e799	That we have had problems and challenges related to the opening of the new main airport at Gardermoen and the implementation of the Rome sport, I have not concealed. But I believe that the word ‘fiasco’ does not belong in this debate at all. On the contrary, problems have proved to be possible to overcome if we take both economic and time to help. To those who have believed that it has taken an unreasonable amount of time to deal with the complaints that have been filed against damage to sentences that have been caused to residential property over the sports of Rome, I would say that one of the important objectives of drawing up a separate guarantee statement is precisely to avoid that the review process will take a long time. However, the work on drawing up this statement has been demanding and has taken a long time, as this has been done in close dialogue with local associations and their lawyers, as I was concerned about a moment ago. Let me go to air traffic controller training and say the following: Last night I saw on the map of Europe when it was about the expected delay in the near future. We're in a very good position, and I'm glad. Air traffic controller training is now a permanent post at the Board meetings of the Aviation Agency. The number of places of practice at the units, as I mentioned earlier, is a very limiting factor in current air traffic controller training. Therefore, the Swedish Aviation Agency has implemented untraditional solutions to increase today’s educational capacity. In addition to traditional education at schools in Norway and England and practice in Norway, there are a total of 28 trainees under education in Canada and Sweden. Education in Canada and Sweden leads to certification and the trainees return to Norway as trained air traffic controllers ready for local transfer training. In Norway, 33 trainees are in the latest practice phase of education, with the expected certification from mid-2000. In addition, nine aspirants are undergoing the institutional part of education in England and will start practice in Norway in September of this year, with the expected certification in December 2000 and May 2001. The aspirants in Canada are expected to be ready for operational service around the turn of the year 2000/2001, while the aspirants from Sweden are expected to be ready from December 2000 to July 2001. An additional six students have just started a basic course to follow the Swedish air traffic controller training from the autumn of 1999. These are expected to be ready for operational service from October 2001. The total is currently 76 students in education. For time's sake, I just want to frame up what we're assessing further. We consider further investment in air traffic controller training abroad, change in practical training, unit-based education, rental of foreign instructors and some other measures. So it's going to be a maximum effort to get out of the situation that might seem unlucky at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e810	There were three issues in the debate that I thought I would add a few comments to. The first goes on the line from the representative Sverre Myrli to the Council of State for any approval for these trains to run 210 km per hour. I basically perceived the Council's response as correct, but in my opinion I think it might have been somewhat unexplained. Could it not be that the representative Myrli believes that the Council of State should intervene with the Railway Authority in order to obtain an approval of 210 km per hour? I take it that it is of course such that the Railway Authority should be able to assess on a free basis whether the air trains are able to run 210 km per hour or not. There shall be no political review here. I just want to say that it's completely unacceptable from the Right! Then it's the will to go into the state treasury and collect money to cover possible subsidisation of the Gardermoban. The signals in the hall are thus quite clear. It seems to me that there are no limits there! Instead of being willing to see if this can't be done in another way, as I said in the introduction, you should go to the state treasury. It shows how difficult it is when you have a lot of money. Then you can do it, without taking the necessary steps to do it. I'm sorry! I know where this is going to end. There's going to be an eternal grant cap attached to this. I have to say that there is no free lunch. Who is going to pay this when the Council of State is going to go to the Council of State and ask for a lot of money to subsidize the Gardermoban? There will be dark times for Norwegian traffic in the rest of the country. I think so. So that's the increase in the number of flight movements, which the Workers' Party was occupied with. You big monkey! I have to ask to be enriched if there is something that has passed me during my five years at Stortinget. I have not yet heard that the Workers' Party in connection with the Gardermoen has gone in to reduce the flight movements. I really thought then that we were investing billions just to improve the flight movements in Norway, to increase capacity. That's why we moved from Fornebu. And then you come here afterwards and you say that there are too many flight movements! I'm sorry, President, but it's reindeer after the clock!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e821	Because the representative of Nilsen apologized for his last outbreak, the president accepted it for this time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e824	The representative from the Workers' Party said that I was not proud of the airport. I didn't say that at all. What I pointed out about the airport and the Gardermoban AS is that it has become very expensive for taxpayers. It would not have cost the taxpayers very much if this had been built and planned and run by private companies, instead of the public running it. That's where the difference between me and the representative Fall is. She wants everything cheap for the users, but she says nothing about the money going over the tax bill. Then the representative from SV was Myrvold in on the seat fee, which has now been converted into a passenger fee. It has recently been adopted by the Labour Party and the Progress Party. That's where the representative used a word that's been used twice before, which I'm not going to repeat, because then I guess I'm going to be the club. I just want to say that there's starting to be quite a lot of us in that group. It is, after all, liberalisation and increased competition that have given us more planes, more flights and lower prices. It was SV's and, in part, the Labour Party's monopoly policy that we have had in the past years, which resulted in sky-high prices and few departures. I think that users are satisfied with the increased competition, that they are satisfied with more departures, and that they are satisfied that more seats are available at lower prices. It's competition, whether you like it or not, that has made this cheap. I think more and more people in Norway are discovering that it is competition that makes it cheaper for them. I also believe that there are fewer and fewer people in this country who want the government direction, and I am very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e833	The President must be allowed to ask Thore Aksel Nistad if the President hears wrong when she hears every time he is in the Chair, a little Mr. before President.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e836	I'm old-fashioned, I'm old-fashioned!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e843	Yes, especially for that reason, one should at least think that it might be Mrs. or Ms., and not Mr.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e846	Honored President!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e853	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e856	One might say that post-war clocks are better than no prudence, but I think many will agree with the representative Oddvard Nilsen and others that the Labour Party's vision with the Gardermoen was increased air traffic. The responsibility for the training of air traffic controllers has remained with a government of the Workers' Party until just under two years ago, and this issue has been a problem for a long time. In fact, I think there may be a problem in the future too, and then the wisdom of those who want to motivate more movements is lacking. As far as the Progress Party is concerned, I am not surprised, because they are not so concerned about such consequences. Nor are they concerned that empty aircraft are bad environmental policies. But when I read in the position that was issued by the Finance Committee a short time ago, the reason is that in order to bring up competition, one has to make it cheaper to fly empty aircraft – it stands out right – for new companies don't get as good coating as others. And when you complain about the number of flight movements, I have to say that I do not see that there is any after-school clock either – and then there is little left! So that's the discussion we've had with the state councils about business economy and social economy. I deliberately tried not to use the concept of social economy – some concepts can be clarifying and others revealing. What I deliberately tried to say was that here there could be a conflict between the collective share and the corporate economy. I kind of think that's a more precise formulation. I see the dilemma for the company, and that it is very easy for us in this room to hide behind having more goals, and then we can criticize the company if the economy is not good enough, or if the collective share goes down. That's why I want us to be more precise in our expectations and our goals. Whatever happens, it might happen that the company gets the criticism in this room, and we're hiding behind different goals that can be claimed at different times. The same is true of what I was up to in the beginning, this with air travel, this with charging policy, that you're not consistent, criticizing that you don't have capacity, and then adding that there will be even more air travel. There is something here that doesn't vote for me, so I hope that the Labour Party in particular will think a little about now: have they been involved in a wise policy in the Financial Committee, or have they helped to raise the problems in the future? I don't have time to comment on what has been said by those who have condemned the airport north and down. I can also refer to positive things, but I can also refer to more negative things, which I have not yet jerked off.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e866	For me, life has consisted of a lot of flights, a lot of life I have spent at airports and in the air. That means that I feel reasonably qualified to compare both the conduct of flight operations, impatience and the use of words at airports when people are in line – some of these words I did not know existed until I had been in this type of queue! I also admit that in some queues it has not been popular to be Minister of Transport, so that I have either left first on the plane or last on the plane. But it's been a good development and a good improvement, and I encourage the representatives in the hall to watch Text-TV from time to time about the route from Gardermoen. It says a little about delays, regular services, etc. One will experience that some of the claims made here today – and they were correct for a period – are not adequate for the situation we have today. With regard to the question raised by the representative Myrvoll — on the social economy versus public transport and business economy — the word social economy has been deliberately chosen by me. In a year's time, I'll come back to Stortinget with an overall assessment, where the social economy will be at the bottom. But for the Gardermoban, which I'm now talking about, we can't forget the starting point. What did we add up to? What was said in this room when it came to investments, both in lines and in materials, and when it came to economic profitability? We have to bring this with us when we describe it as a situation for next year, where we take into account both losses and a high collective share, and perhaps a level of tickets that we need to look at. To the chairman of the committee, I would like to say that it is not the opinion of the Council of State – nor will any attempt be made on the part of the Council of State – to influence the Railway Authority and its approval. On the contrary, the Railway Safety Authority is the safety and safety body and must carry out the approval. What I tried to suggest was that the process should not be delayed in any way. We will ensure that the Railway Authority has a crew that is able to meet the challenges that are coming along. I don't want to go into the state fund to find money for this project, without having the Biggest's blessing with me. That means that next year's decision by the Storting will be decisive for where in the Gardermoban budget will be to be found in the future. I also tried to be very diplomatic and didn't say anything about the starting point of the Workers' Party when it was about the number of flight movements a few years ago. I have listened, both today and in the past, wondering how it has now been assessed in relation to the past.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e880	The government announced that he had learned many new words in line at airports. My experience from the state council's homelands is that it does not use to be a lack of ingenuity when it comes to using strong words, seas outside cows at airports. It is good that the Council of State has also noticed the use of language. So, to the committee leader's outreach in relation to what I said about the Railway Authority and the approval of the top speed on the Fly train. Unfortunately, the Council of State will not – and I am glad that he said so – intervene and override the professional body, the Railway Authority, but there must be a reason why the Railway Authority has not yet approved the Aerodrome for a maximum speed of 210 km per hour. It must then be the responsibility of the department to coordinate the work between the Railway Authority, the Railway Agency and the NSB Gardermobanen AS, so that the problems that lie there are cleared by the road and that the Railway Authority can subsequently approve the maximum speed of 210 km per hour. So over to the air traffic controller situation -- I'm glad that a lot of time has been spent on this today. It is highlighted by several of the airlines as the main challenge for scheduled air services. We're going to join the Workers' Party in taking our share of responsibility for the lack of air traffic controllers. But when one was in the situation that one knew – at least should know – that one had too little capacity in the air traffic controller service, one should also have reflected on it when an increased number of possible flight movements at the new main aerodrome. Let's be clear: from the Workers' Party's side, there has been no doubt that a new main aerodrome would lead to more flight movements. But there's no point in increasing the number of flight movements if there's no capacity to deal with it. The increase could have come a little bit more gradually, because as the Council of State explained, it may seem that we will eventually get more air traffic controllers in place. There's no point in increasing the number of flight movements if you can't handle it. It's kind of like putting several cash registers on Rimi, without putting cash registers behind the devices. We know what it means, there'll be queues and chaos in the store. It's the same in aviation, if you don't have people to deal with the increase in air traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e889	I feel that there is reason to take the floor after a lot of people have been up on this pulpit and rehearsed all the negative things at both the airport at the Gardermoen, the accommodation service and the sport of Rome. I think it would be absolutely incredible if there had not been any problems with the opening of such a large airport for Norway. It was an incredible lift, as we did in common. I believe that we now agree that the errors that have been made should be corrected. So it'll be up to us in common to go out with a positive review. Isn't it nice that we have more public travelers than expected? Isn't it great that things are going better now? I agree with the Council of State: can we not now see that the planes now go after the recipe? We're a surmising people, and we have to be able to take a joint responsibility to at least appreciate what's going well. Of course, we also agree that problems arise when air traffic controllers are missing and there is a lot of activity. The working party – and I would like to stress that to the committee leader – went in so that we could increase the number of flight movements. We fully agree on that. This might be a problem not for Stortinget, but for the airlines. They'll find out in time if there's too many movements. We are constantly hearing about airlines that have financial problems due to too frequent departures. So far, we have to praise the Gardermoban and the airport at the Gardermo because they have come so far, and then we have to take the promise together when new challenges arise.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e908	Let's go to voting. Case No. 1 introduces no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e928	During the debate, Mr Andersen presented a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government asks the Government to amend the Regulation of 30 September 1993 on recovery aid so as to cover expenditure on school books and material relating to approved resettlement schemes, even if they exceed the current annual rate of the State Loan Fund for Education.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-28.ana.ud2092e970	There is no record available.
