ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e15	The representative, Bjørn Hernæs, will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e18	On behalf of Mr Ansgar Gabrielsen and myself, I would like to propose amendments to the Act of 6 April 1984 No. 17 on remuneration in the event of ownership of immovable property.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e23	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e37	This is the fourth law that is now being finalized by the Social Committee in Odelstingen after we have completed the law on health professionals, the law on specialist health care and the law on mental health protection. A little pointedly, you could say that the first two laws I mentioned, the law on health professionals and the law on specialist health care, regulate the duties of health professionals, and that the law that is being treated now regulates patients' rights. And to the extent that health professionals are to obtain rights and not just duties, they need to acquire patient status. It would be unfortunate if it really was like that to perceive, and, as I said, it's pointed. In any case, I think that the Patient Rights Act has received a broad, real treatment in the Committee, where all the implicators have had the opportunity to influence the final result. And I would like to start by saying that I am quite surprised at the committee leader's presentation that it was almost a kind of prior agreement that was clearly concluded here between the Workers' Party and the government parties, so that the race would have been run that way. As far as I register by an superficial review, the law consists of 46 legal paragraphs. All eight of them have been amended by the work of the Committee. And they've changed, as far as I can see, by the fact that different parties and different fractions have come up with input. You've had real influence on the final result, and all the parties have been involved. And I think, as others have said, that the rapporteur deserves to be commended. There are important changes that have been made in the Committee. The concept of a patient has been changed in relation to the proposal of the Ministry in such a way as to ensure that more people will be entitled. Now it will also apply to those who address the health care system, and not only to those who receive treatment. The concept of ‘family’ has changed in such a way that it will be able to define its immediate relatives and have rights attached to it. The very concept of health has changed, not least the concept of ‘right to necessary health care’ and what it should include has changed in such a way as to extend patients’ rights. One has also incorporated a right to assessment within 30 days or rather, to the extent that the condition is so severe or life-threatening that it makes it necessary. The right to an individual plan has been guaranteed, particularly linked to those who suffer from severe, long-term suffering, for which there is a need for coordination. It has also clarified and strengthened the right to protection against the disclosure of information with a significant and longer-term comment submitted by SV, to which the Committee has joined, relating to the protection of insurance companies, that it is to be ensured that the information is in line with what the patient would consider to be useful and that it is not supplied with information that is either incorrect or that could give adverse results. Overall, I believe that the Patient Rights Act grants patients significant rights that they do not currently have. I note that both the Advance Party and the Right make a big point that part of the rights are so restricted that they do not give or guarantee the right. Right, as far as I've registered, have two suggestions on my own keel, but are mostly on most of the others. The Progress Party has a number of proposals, some of which, in my view, work – I am not sure whether it is a parliamentary expression – quite burlesque, and especially in relation to the 18-year-olds, and we are talking about minors, who in many cases will be both good adults and established with family and perhaps more children. And it's clear that that makes a lot of suggestions, but there's not going to be a good health policy out of it. I also record that the Progress Party has some reservations related to serious convictions – which were raised by the pay side – that are interesting. In the wording of the Progress Party, it states: ‘The patient does not have due to: serious convictions to refuse to receive blood or blood products or to refuse to interrupt an on-going hunger strike. ‘... So it would mean forcing patients who refuse to take food, or giving them blood by coercion. It opens up a series of interesting perspectives. And in addition, if the serious conviction is not present, then there is no law clause attached to it. Part of this bears the mark of being little thoughtful. But the total in relation to the law is good in terms of SV's view. I think you have to go in and see what kind of impact the capacitor will have, but if this is understood in the best sense, it means that, of course, a capacity needs to be built up in priority areas that are in line with the needs that arise.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e66	There is again a new, important health law that is for treatment in Odelstinget. It can then be natural for the Left in the beginning to express that we are joining the committee majority's legislative proposals. Furthermore, there may be reason to point out that the law in close proximity only contains new rules. A large part of the rules that are currently governed by the Patient Rights Act are rules that have been in other laws in the past, and perhaps also rules that will result from general legal principles, even if they have not been statutory. In the case of patient rights, it may be natural to take two perspectives. One is the individual rights, the right to be treated with respect, etc., the right to participation and consent to treatment. The second is rights vis-à-vis the public, in relation to public resources in terms of health care. The very concept of rights is a difficult one. And it's no wonder that the rights attached to the individual's relationship with the health care system, in terms of individual circumstances, are clearer and more precise than the right to treatment and thus to get a share of the common health resources. There might be reason to operate a distinction that can be characterised as the distinction between absolute rights on the one hand and more relative rights on the other. There is reason to stress that the political importance of increasing health resources is at least as important after the adoption of the Patient Rights Act as before. It will be the access to resources, not the issue of rights, which will be the most important in relation to the extent of health care that will be provided to the population. And I think that's actually something we should not initially regret. At the same time, it is clear that there is a development in these issues, which will mean that for me there will not be a change in position, but more a development in resource access, etc. if I will perhaps at some later stage go further in giving more precise rights to treatment than what we today will find right to go into. But that's a point that you have to be aware of. When you give rights, you make priorities at the same time. And I think that what Annelise Höegh had in mind was in a line-up with the undersigned in terms of the right to take money and travel to another place, for example. to the rest of the world — which is likely to be much easier for somatic patients and perhaps also for somatic patients with not too extensive disease diagnoses — could lead to resources for the category of patients at the expense of those who do not have the same ability to exercise the right elsewhere, thus contributing to the enhancement of an imbalance between somatic patients and psychiatric patients. So to the question of whether it has any meaning to introduce rights and legislation. On that question, I would like to answer a clear yes for my part. And, as far as I've been concerned in the reply to Annelise Höegh, the Hospital Journal of 1977 and the Fusa judgment of 1990 – which was first and foremost about social services – are both Supreme Court judges who have established an understanding of a legal situation that has clearly strengthened the patient's situation. And these legal decisions have also helped to clarify and better understand the legal issues that need to be addressed through legislation. I want to highlight a point in the law, and that is the deepening of the complaint rules in relation to what is happening today. In many ways, appeal procedures, complaint rules and review procedures will provide clarification and removal of the provision in Section 2-1 of the Patient Rights Act. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the patient representative. It's, I think, an advantage if the patient representatives are county councils. But what I would have liked in the law was actually a clearer emphasis on the fact that the patient representatives should be directly linked to the county council, and perhaps also better coordination with the control systems that are otherwise in the municipal law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e89	With Odelstingen’s treatment today, Norway receives its first comprehensive law on patients’ rights. Provisions on individual rights have previously been dispersed in different specific laws. The rights are now systematised and also supplemented with new rights in a single legal document, which will clearly improve both the position of patients in the healthcare system and the availability of rights for patients and relatives. A comprehensive presentation of patient rights will provide patients with a better understanding of their rights, and thus a better way to implement them. The new law has a long process behind it in the 1990s, from the Harlem Brundtland government taking up the idea in St.meld. No 50 for the 1993-94 and the 1993-94 consultation draft law of the Jagland Government on patients' rights, to the present government, which has formally submitted the draft law to the Odelstinget. The law on patients’ rights implies a continuation of the work of the former workers’ party governments to put the patient first in the Norwegian health system. Patients already have the right to community health care and immediate help. Patients have also had their position strengthened in the past, among others. by means of a 30-day assessment guarantee, a three-month treatment guarantee and free hospital choice within the health region. There are good and important rights for patients now: right to the necessary healthcare in the specialist health service right to review the right to the choice of hospital right to participation and information right to the consent of healthcare right to the right of access to the journal right to appeal to the county implementation of the patient ombudsman system in all county municipalities; The aim of the law is to ensure that patients receive necessary and sound health care through information and participation, care and respect. The working party was mainly satisfied with the noblest proposition made by the Bondevik administration, but we thought it was very important to ensure the right to necessary health care. No one has forgotten that the leader of the Christian People's Party, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, created very great expectations about the binding legal right to health care in the election campaign in 1997. But responsibility and government thus led to a not insignificant right of retreat. However, the Labour Party welcomes the fact that, through the treatment of the Social Committee, we have had the centre parties to ensure the right to the necessary health care in the specialist health service and thus help to ensure that no one can fall outside such a fundamental right. I would like to express our satisfaction with the constructive cooperation we have had with the government parties in the extensive legislative work we have had to deal with this spring. In the Workers' Party, it is important that the fundamentals of health policy can find their solution at the intersection of social democracy and the centre. This will, I believe, give the highest level of safety and equivalence for patients in our country. In my view, it is also necessary to give people both security and a realistic understanding that capacity does not always mean that everyone can get everything right away. Having said that, I would like to add that important elements in the policies of the Right and the Progressive Party over time have been useful corrective, and that in many questions there is a broad political basis behind the legal provisions. The law on the right to necessary health care has become very similar to an alternative that then Minister of Health Gudmund Hernes sent out to the hearing, and we believe that we avoid creating unnecessary legal food without financial control, which some have feared in the debate on the right to health care in the specialist healthcare service. Establishing rights strengthens patients’ right to treatment and contributes to national health policy objectives being pursued through the priorities and boundaries of the committee. The working party will point out that the element that is still missing after Odelsting’s treatment and that must be the next logical step is to introduce the right to a permanent doctor for the whole population. It is important to stress that the Patient Rights Act cannot alone ensure and provide health services in society. This is primarily done by the Local Health Service Act and the Special Health Service Act. The Patient Rights Act will provide patients with legal requirements and legal status in relation to municipal health and specialist healthcare, and will contribute to a better distribution of healthcare. The rules on the implementation of the rights and who are obliged to implement the rights are thus governed by the Staff and Services Act. The Patient Rights Act improves the patient’s ability to predict his legal position in relation to healthcare and reduces the risk of arbitrary and unjustified discrimination. However, the introduction of new patient rights and the implementation of a number of health reforms adopted in recent years may have combined and unintended consequences. I am thinking here in particular of the geographically equivalent availability of healthcare in the light of conditions such as the right to free hospital choice, input-driven funding and the discussion of the hospital’s form of association. The Workers' Party is therefore reassured that there appears to be a broad majority in the Stortinge which is critical of the transformation of hospitals into limited liability companies. At the same time, however, we must warn the civil parties against making new adjustments in the form of hospital funding before the scheme is evaluated and integrated in the context of the other health reforms undertaken. Legislation is an important instrument in health policy. Odelstinget adopts today the last of the four major health laws of spring. Overall, the four new laws constitute the largest legal reform in health care history. In the view of the Workers' Party, the four new laws provide a good foundation for effective and sound healthcare, which places legal certainty and the patient's needs at the centre.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e150	With today's bill, Norway will have its first patient rights law. The law strengthens the legal position of patients. At the same time, a number of provisions that were previously scattered in other laws are brought together, making it easier for the patient to have an overview of his rights. The law is one important element, together with the other new health laws, in the legal governance of the healthcare system. At the same time, the law must be seen in the context of the strong priority given to neglected areas of health services proposed and adopted by the Government in the Stortinget, in terms of both psychiatry, cancer and hospital equipment. The legislative proposal and setting up involve strengthening the legal position of the patient in a number of areas. This applies, inter alia, to: right of participation, in the case of right to information, in relation to the requirement of consent from the patient before examination or treatment can be initiated. I refer to the provisions of the bill on compliance requests and complaints, which allow the patient to have his rights tested and enforced. In Ot.prp. No 12 a comprehensive scheme consisting of a right to assess the state of health within 30 working days, a right to review and a right to choose a hospital was proposed. In addition, it was proposed that the waiting-time guarantee requirement be continued. The purpose of the right-to-assessment provision is to ensure that the patient is given an assessment of his health status within a relatively short period of time. The Social Committee supports the proposal for a right to be assessed in the vote. I have noticed that the Social Committee proposes some additions to the legal text. In some situations, there are no prerequisites for good cooperation between doctor and patient. In such cases, the patient may have a strong need to have his/her condition assessed by another doctor. Against this background, a right has been proposed for the patient to re-evaluate their health status. The Social Committee stresses that for chroniclers from time to time it may be necessary to practice a somewhat more open approach to re-examination. I agree. The free choice of hospitals includes: in order to resolve a strict division of the health service. Such a breakdown may have very unfortunate consequences for the patient and may prevent optimum use of resources. The majority of the social committee supports the proposal on the right to choose a hospital. I also take with me the views that the majority have on the matter of coverage of travel expenses. In addition, in consultation with the Government, the majority of the Social Committee has proposed the right to the necessary health care. The design of the proposal takes into account the need to strengthen the patient’s position and the feasibility of implementation within the available capacity. At the same time, there is no doubt that both the Government and a total increase are on guard against the escalation plans adopted to ensure better capacity in the priority areas. As regards the question of what health care is needed, the majority of the Social Committee is re-emphasizing the proposal for priority groups in the inquiry Priority. It is apparent from the majority’s proposal that the right to health care only applies if the patient may have expected benefits from health care. Furthermore, costs shall be proportionate to the impact of the measure. I have noted the comments of the majority, and in the further work on regulations, I will base my work on the principles of prioritisation between patient groups recommended in the position of the Wohnning Committee, which provided the basis for the design of the criteria for the treatment guarantee in the waiting period. The majority’s proposal for a provision limits the right to necessary health care to the publicly funded specialist health service and, where appropriate, other service providers with which the county council has agreed. In addition, the proposal is limited to specialist health services within the limits of access to finance, personnel and equipment. The debate has been elucidating on an important point. Both the majority and minorities recognise that today’s capacity is too small to fulfil an unconditional right to health care. That is why we need the escalation plans, as this government has proposed and has been adopted. Therefore, the minority believes that we need a break for increased health expenditure. The question that then remains is how we communicate this to most people. I believe it is then real to say that the law applies within this capacity limit, especially when it has actually committed itself to a significant escalation in the neglected areas. I must respectfully say that I do not see the representatives of the minority, who stand for an unconditional right, have given very good answers to what they mean, for example. to psychiatric patients, all of whom we know do not meet the necessary treatment capacity today, and for whom it is particularly not relevant to provide treatment abroad. These are questions that I think there might be reason to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e176	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e179	The government did not promote the right to treatment or health care in its legislative proposal. This has been the subject of the Committee's examination of the legislative proposal. As I have pointed out earlier in the debate, I believe that the text of the law, as it is now available for decision, is unclear and unprecise and stands in a direct contrast on some points to the premises made by the majority. My question to the Minister of Health will then be as follows: Does the Minister of Health see any practical problems in administering and implementing this law, even through the use of regulations? Are not these vague and unprecious legal texts a problem in itself when this law is to be practiced? And isn't the Minister of Health also anxious about what he used in the past as an argument not to legislate for treatment, namely legal food and a number of complaints and legal cases in the Norwegian judiciary? After all, as said by and re here, the consumer organisation also expressed great dissatisfaction with the legislative proposal available here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e188	In this debate on the one hand, the Progress Party has said that the changes made by the majority in consultation with the Government in the bill are what makes this law worthy of being called a patient rights law. On the other hand, the representatives of the Progress Party have also argued in the debate that the majority proposal on this point is almost worthless. I think there is a reason why the Advance Party should choose which leg to actually stand on at the end. The legal text is unclear and unclear, says the representative Alvheim, and he asks if the Minister of Health sees some problems in practicing the law. It is a new law that requires considerable regulatory work not only on this point but also on several other points, and it is to be implemented. Clearly, this is a challenge! It would be completely wrong to try to substantiate it. But there's a job that the ministry will do on the basis of the decision of the Stortinget, and the premises that have been drawn up in the position of the Social Committee. Then we have to design regulations, and we have to make a practical arrangement for this. Then there is a challenge that the Minister of Health and the Department takes, and contributes to this becoming a structure that can build on the best we have in the Norwegian health system, which can be based on the criteria for priority drawn up in the setting and which, in practical terms, will lead to the greatest possible avoidance of this field becoming an arena for legal conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e195	I think it is clear both in the health minister's words and attitude here today that he understands that this may not have been his best day. He doesn't get what he wants. He suffers defeat at an important point, namely the right to health care. It reminded me of Bjørnstar Bjørnson's poem: 'Raise your head, you quick boy! If a hope or two were broken, a new one flashes in your eye as soon as it shines out of the high! ‘... It actually goes on to say: 'Raise your head and look around! Something is there that shouts: come! – ‘ Yes, it's the patients, it, and the rest of us, who are asking you to do the best out of the proposal that, after all, is being adopted here today. But it is quite rare, especially and alarming that the Minister of Health as late as the day before the committee gave its opinion, publicly warned against adopting a right to health care, a right he knew that his party traps here in the Stortinget would just go in for the next day. It puts – frankly – the Christian People's Party's position on this important core issue in the law in a strange light. What does the Christian People's Party really mean? Are they for what they are against, or are they against what they are for? Yes, there is reason to ask: does the Minister of Health not see that there is a danger in the majority's proposal to Section 2-1 that, through its ambiguity and by leaving so many important questions to any clarification in regulations later, it will just lead to what he warns against, namely that there will be a race of lawsuits and complaints, that there is a danger of happening to the majority's proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e216	Mr Bjørnson or not, I have to say that the four health laws that the Government has put forward, and on which this is the final stone, have actually received the approval of the Storting on all the main points. On the issue of the right to health care, the government parties together with the Workers' Party have found a solution in consultation with the Government that I have given my consent, and that I have not been attacked in any context. What I have warned against – and I stand by it firmly – is going too far in the direction of letting the pussy take over the governance of health policy. It is my sincere belief that the proposal presented here today does not. That is why I can give it my approval, and that is why I want to implement it as best I can. The representative of Höegh has used a lot of strong words about the Christian People's Party in this debate that I honestly think we could have been spared. We have gone into this difficult matter with the aim of strengthening patients' legal position in Norwegian law. We have followed up point by point the play that the Christian People's Party went out with in the election campaign in 1997, except for the law fixing the waiting time guarantee. After all, all the other parties have left. That's why I think the debate had served one here had recognized that most of the parties have actually been looking for what is a good expression of the law of patients' rights. I am convinced that we have found a good balance in and with the position of the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e226	These are two issues I would like the Minister of Health to comment on. One is attached to Section 2-1. What you are concerned about here is whether there is a ambiguity in relation to the right to health care with the wording ‘within the limits set by the capacity’. I see that there are patient organisations involved in this formulation and what to put in it. It could be interesting to hear the Minister of Health deepening it again. Otherwise, I have to say in relation to the representative Annelise Höegh, who believes that there should be clarity with the option proposed here, namely ‘within an individually prescribed medically justified period’, which the individual doctor will set, that an obvious consequence of this would be that if the doctor in a hospital so that we have limited capacity here, only the deadline should be postponed in time. It's quite illusory to think that it provides a guarantee for a scheme that gives rights on a general basis. So I've registered that some people in retrospect, after the committee's treatment, have said in terms of the patient care system, which is a strength to get the right confirmation, that it may be a weakness in the system that it includes the specialist healthcare service, but not the psychiatry and primary health service. Does the Minister for Health have any views on the patient Ombudsman scheme when it is to develop over time, as to whether it would be natural to consider whether the scheme should also cover parts other than it currently does?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e235	As regards the question of the rules on which the majority proposal is based, they will have to clarify the criteria on which the medical/professional assessments are based. They should create predictability for the patient, increase the possibility of uniform practice and reduce the need to try out the content of the trial. The general criteria underpinning the prioritisation of patients in public health care are a political issue. The professional evaluation must consist in assessing whether each patient meets the criteria set for prioritisation. The majority then propose to build on the principles of priority for which the Wage Committee has been involved. With regard to the capacity limitation that lies there, I understand that it has to do with the limitations of personnel, equipment and available resources. But I see, like the majority, this in a clear context with the capacity escalation plans, on which the Storting has committed itself. In the case of the Patient Ombudsman scheme, the patient representatives, whom Ballo had in mind, shall include the specialist healthcare services both within the scope of psychiatry and somatic medicine. The bill assumes that all agents are able to also care for the interests of patients within the psychiatric community. I would like to say without delay that in the longer term it would be desirable for the scheme to include the municipal health service. However, there are a number of questions about responsibilities and funding, about availability, etc. as there is reason to consider further when we have gained more experience with the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e246	The Minister of Health is right that I have used strong words about the Christian People's Party here today. If I were to be more specific, I might have emphasised more strongly that there is, of course, a difference – there are different opinions also in the Christian People's Party, and it is really the Minister of Health I am most surprised at, and most annoyed at. For the Christian People's Party representatives in Stortinget, at least we have helped to get a legal right to treatment, which, as I also said in my post, is at least a small step in the right direction. What I'm responding to is that Christian People's Party representatives both in the Government and in the Stortinget by saying certain things, at the same time give the impression that they stand for something that and re does not. The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund said that the Christian People's Party is «realistic and honest». I guess you don't feel the need to say it if it's everybody -- then there's something to make them different than and re. The Health Minister has just said that the four health laws that the Government has put forward have largely been fully endorsed. Yeah, that's right. But it's not surprising, because it's the Storting that has taken the initiative in all of these laws, and we've had treatment for many years, through big shots and settings, that have formed the basis. It is true that the government has submitted the legislative proposals and joined them, but it is not the government that has invented this by itself. There has been a slow process in Stortinget where all parties have contributed to a greater or lesser degree. Then he says that the Christian People's Party has not broken any promise, at least nothing more than everyone else, because no one is going in today to legalize the three-month guarantee. No, that's also true. But at best that's only half a truth, for all of us have actually suggested a new and a better formulation. The Minister of Health did not do that, but now the Christian People's Party has helped to get it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e257	The accusation of half-truths is not daily food from Stortinget's pulpit, and I must say that I do not stop to be surprised at the characteristics of the representative Höegh in this matter. It is a fact that the Christian People's Party has followed up – both the Christian People's Party here in the Chamber and the Minister of Health – the right to judgment, the right to information, the right to participation, the right to permanent residence. That promise has tried to get us to break and go away from it, but we actually stand by it, and we have followed up the right to free hospital choice in line with what we have agreed with the Right Party and the Advance Party about here in the Chamber. However, as Minister of Health, I have not found it possible to go in for the Valgerd Svarstad Haugland in August 1997 on a legalisation of a three-month waiting period guarantee, because we have actually had some experience since August 1997 on how that scheme works. On the other hand, I have put forward a proposal for the Storting, an overall package, which collectively strengthens the patient's rights, and I have contributed to the changes in the Government's arrangements that get a majority in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e262	There is no reason for the Minister of Health to appear so politically hairy in relation to the replicant Annelise Höegh. The Health Minister accused me a moment ago and said that I now had to choose – and know – where I stand in health policy in connection with the Law of Rights. What I said in my first post was that I was happy that we now get a right law in the name, but it is not the way it should be. I think – I can't say it more strongly – that if it hadn't been for the sake of the Minister of Health and Government parties, the law we are adopting today would have been far better, and it was, I think, also, basically from the Labour Party. But the government parties and the Minister of Health have, in my opinion, helped us to get a legal text that can be interpreted in all directions and that is not satisfactory for the users. It has been expressed today by user organisations, and I think we should listen to them far more than to the ministry and politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e267	I noticed that the representative Alvheim and I have different perceptions of what is a good patient rights law. This concerns in particular the question of the right to necessary health care, and I respect that it is possible to see it in different ways. But I have to remind you that we actually agree on all the other important proposals in this law that help to strengthen the legal position of patients. We must not underestimate this either with regard to user organisations or with regard to the Norwegian people. It's actually the case that we're in on a rather historic decision today, and it's not like there's a dividing line through this hall between some who are in favour of patients' rights and some who are against. There are issues of a substantive disagreement about what is a enforceable patient rights law at the point of entitlement to health care, and I believe that when there is actually a capacity limitation e.g.. in the psychiatry triangle that makes it impossible for us to tell psychiatric patients with a serious diagnosis that you have a right to treatment tomorrow in any case, then it's really true to say that this right applies within the limits that capacity sets, but we commit ourselves to escalating that capacity so that justice becomes real.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e272	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e275	First, allow me to comment briefly on the last loophole and also on previous lines in this debate, where it has been claimed that the limitation of the majority proposal – ‘within the limits set by capacity’ – is an expression of special honesty or honesty. I think it would have been in favour of both the honesty and the cleanliness of the Christian People's Party instead of having just changed their position since 1997. What is crucial is not whether or not the guarantee or right is linked to a three-month period, the decisive difference is whether or not there should be a right that triggers legal effects if it is not honoured. That was what was unreservedly promised in the 1997 election campaign. And that promise has been abandoned today. It seems in the real world that you have to break promises, but I think it's in the best interests of cleanliness that you admit that that's what you do – to break a promise. What also surprised me a little bit in the Minister of Health's reply was that if I understood correctly, he justified the wording 'within the limits of capacity' and defended that this is a good wording with the reference to stepping up capacity. It's an amazing form of logic. To see that no decision had now been taken to escalate the capacity. Then probably the need for such a sanctuary would have been even greater. It cannot, of course, be allowed to escalate capacity, which makes it natural to legislate that rights exist only within the limits set by capacity at all times. When the so-called Wage II Committee in 1996 gave a partial position on the so-called ‘wait time guarantee’, we made a reasonably balanced balance between the strengths and weaknesses of the use of waiting time as an instrument in the priority. What was then fully agreed in the sample was that there is a fundamental problem related to the use of words such as ‘guarantee’ and ‘right’, and it is that most people perceive these words in a rather clear and unambiguous way. Politicians and lawyers, such as the representative Hove, can, of course, discriminate between relative rights and absolute rights. But in general, daily Norwegian, there is an unknown distinction. And what we pointed out from the sample is that the important thing about legislation is to avoid creating unwarranted expectations in people. If people believe that they are granted a right, they obviously believe that if that right is not fulfilled, it must have some effect. And if it's supposed to have no effect, you shouldn't use words like right or guarantee. Then you should communicate with people fairly straightforwardly and clearly, and say that there is no individual right here. I do not know Norwegian laws in and out, but I know that it is not common in legislation, neither in health matters nor in other areas, to choose to legislate a right at the same time as saying – in the form of the law – that it only applies as far as you can afford to enforce it at all times. I would probably think it would be more appropriate to use words other than right if that's the message you want to communicate. What, in my opinion, is the benefit of the minority's proposal for the wording of Section 2-1, is that it is actually based on what we have a long tradition of in the medical law, namely that all medical treatment given to patients in that country should be sound. In the safety criterion, there are at least two things: that treatment should maintain professional objectives in relation to those of current medicine and that treatment should be given at the time when it is expected to provide the best possible result for the patient. That's actually what the minority proposal takes the consequences of and tries to formulate. It does not help a patient to receive a good professional treatment if the treatment is given at such a late stage that it no longer has reasonable prospects to benefit the patient. The criterion of accountability is a much higher criterion than a mechanical deadline, whether six months or three months. On this point, I believe that the proposals of the minority are a major step forward.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e288	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e291	I will be allowed to correct a mistake in proposal No. 2 §4-9, as the representative of No Wage made us aware. The proposal shall be replaced by the following: ‘The patient is not entitled to refuse to receive blood or blood products or to refuse to interrupt an ongoing hunger strike. ‘... It goes towards the end of this debate, and I must say that I agree with the representatives from the Right that the Government and the Government parties have come out relatively badly in relation to this point about the right to treatment or the right to health care. It was not suggested in the proposition, but it has come after strong pressure from the Workers' Party, fortunately, and of course from us in the other major parties, although we have another bill. What I would like to repeat is that I have a distressing feeling that the legislative proposal we are about to adopt would have been much clearer and more precise if we had not been negotiating with the government parties and got the starting point as reduced professional and legal security as the case now is. Capacity and resources have only been included in the debate, and we wonder where the Progress Party is going to take the resources from to give a full right to treatment for seriously ill people. We have our principal funding, that's popular security, which is our health insurance company, and there should be an equally sunny right to get funds for treatment like it's getting sick money, pensions, unemployment benefits, etc. It was a paradox in the bill that one should have the right to review, the right to review, but one should not be entitled to treatment. This is actually not related, and it is more than I have said, and more people with significantly greater competence than I have in this field. So a little visit to the Christian People's Party. This is the case under emergency law and refusing to accept blood products and refusing to accept treatment in a hunger strike situation. I must say I am amazed that the Christian People's Party has taken the opposite position of what the Progress Party has done, namely that in such situations health care should be provided. Several have been involved, and I repeat it: it is a mystery to me when I now register what health policy you have, and what credibility this party has lost lately.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e313	The President took note of the corrections made by the representative of Alvheim.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e316	So much bitterness and despair on the part of the minority about not winning out, I guess you haven't heard in a while. We have good training in it in SV and are still in a good mood. I have to say that some of the strength of this law is just that no one has got it exactly as you would. This has not been exactly what the Ministry proposed, and it shows that the committee's consideration of the legislative proposal has been real. The government parties have probably not got it exactly as they would, nor the Workers' Party, no parties have it. But the sum of that is that a number of objections that have been raised have been taken into account – it is from patient organisations or from the various political parties. In this way, SV believes that this has actually become a better law than the proposal that initially existed. I would also like to believe that the Right Party and the Advance Party in certain fields have been heard for their thoughts. However, it is clear that if one were to lay flat here in some constellation, the government parties, the Right Party and the Advance Party, which has had a bad tendency in this Chamber in the course of budgetary proceedings, this would have gone completely wrong. An example of this is the proposal for transfusion and hunger strike. Here the Progress Party initially had a legislative proposal: ‘The patient does not have due to: serious convictions to refuse to receive blood or blood products or to refuse to interrupt an on-going hunger strike. ‘... It introduces a form of obligation involved in all rights, whereby having a serious conviction is to ensure that you are given blood transfusion by force, or that any hunger strike is to result in coercive feeding. Then comes the Progress Party with a new, processed proposal: ‘The patient is not entitled to refuse to receive blood or blood products or to refuse to interrupt an ongoing hunger strike. ‘... It is difficult to imagine that voters from the Advance Party or representatives in this Chamber from the Advance Party who were hospitalized and who really did not want to eat or did not want to have a blood product would find themselves in this kind of totalitarian, dictatorial approach to something called a Patient Rights Act. I would like to say that there is an extremely strong force, both in the social committee and in this Chamber, that we are not going to take in any proposals that might come from a minority, and then we are going to bow down to them. The next thing would be, in relation to the proposals of the Progress Party, that 17-year-olds should walk around this community and be treated as minors, both parents should be called in to the office of the doctor, or the doctor should call them home to tell them that they had now written out contraception or given advice regarding an operation. It's a kind of state that I think this society is a little bit serviced. Not least, the Progress Party would be very little served by the fact that this kind of proposal was made bare to the Norwegian people. It is therefore a strength that some of the proposals that come from the minority today are not adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e335	It was with relatively great amazement that I listened to the Minister of Health a little while ago, when he thought that the majority was in favour of it, was a right. As I have learned that word, it means that if anyone has a right, there is someone else who has an obligation to enforce that right if the circumstances of it exist. If that's not done, a right is something you can go to the courts to get enforced. I would like to ask the Minister of Health: Where can you go to enforce the right of government parties and the Workers' Party? Can you go to the courts, which can then solve something or give someone a charge with some kind of legal effect? I want to draw a comparison. For example, if an insurance company insurances: a car, and there is a real collision, today it is such that after taxiing a compensation sum is paid by its insurance company, and then you find out for yourself which car repair shop you want to use to repair the damage that you have received from the insurance company to pay for. What does the Minister of Health think the reaction would have been with a car owner if the insurance company said yes, of course, you are insured with us, we're going to make sure to repair your car, but we're going to do it in our own car repair shop, and unfortunately, with our car repair shop's capacity at the moment, it might take a six-eight-twelve months before your car reaches the workshop? That's the answer the Minister of Health gives to patients he claims to have a right. A car owner would say that this is fraud on the part of the insurance company. He would become very angry, far more angry than perhaps many patients who have been trained to stand in line, who stand and wait and be told to wait and wait, and they are patient. Had it been about the car, they would have yelled and said: end with this fraud! Give me the money so I can go to a car repair shop other than the insurance company's own car repair shop. That is the proposal that the Right and the Progressive Party have made. If it cannot be done in public health, money must be paid so that the patient can pay an operation elsewhere, either in this or in another country. It's a right that you could go to a court with and get paid money in a court order. I would like to ask the Minister of Health if he will have an understanding of the patients who feel that it is a sort of fraud when the Minister of Health refers to a non-existent right as a right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e346	To the representative of the payroll first, who is guilty of a manifest misunderstanding when he claims that I should have said that we have adopted an escalation plan, requires that we include in the law a limitation related to the capacity. I didn't say that. The whole point is that the escalation plans show that we need more capacity than we have today. That's what the whole Storting has joined in. This means that, in psychiatry and in the care of cancer, there is no capacity today to fulfil such an unconditional right as is proposed by the minority. Then I actually think that's the opposite of what Hagen calls it, to say that there's actually such a constraint today. I will not rule out that, once these plans are implemented, we should introduce a right that does not contain this restriction, but I cannot see that we can implement it today. To the representative, Mr Hagen, I would like to say that the duty lies with the county council. This is evident from the overall legal framework to which the Stortinget now subscribes. Of course, this right may be tried before the Court of Justice. What Hagen saw in addition is to set out his example of the car workshops, which have been promoted in the health debate for many years. The problem is that a psychiatric patient with a serious diagnosis has very little use for a check with money in his hand, because there is no capacity in any private hospital, and it is completely inappropriate to travel abroad for treatment. Then I think it must be right to say that our answer to that problem is to escalate the capacity through a binding escalation plan, and then acknowledge that the right you have actually has its limitation in the capacity that is in force today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e353	I have a certain understanding that the Minister of Health has problems getting down on his legs. The starting point here was a proposal from the Minister of Health himself, who actively and with clear reasons agreed not to introduce any right to health care. So through the committee treatment, you've maneuvered to something that looks like a right, and that's not a right anyway. Then it might not be that easy to explain the context. The legislative proposal that now exists on the part of the majority can well be described as something Nils Kjær did in his time when he spoke about the democratic compromise between almost nothing and absolutely nothing. What I think should be considered carefully by the majority, is whether this is not going to be a kind of double communication that the users of the legislation and of the health care system would rightly be able to respond to and say back that if you have not intended to give us a right that will at all trigger effects of a practical nature if it is not fulfilled, why in all the vastest world have you then inserted the legal text that we have a right? I don't think there are many patients who are so designed that they want to find the reason that "unfortunately, we don't have the capacity at the moment, so your right can still not be fulfilled", particularly convincing. If it is intended that it is available at all times in the public health system to control the rights of patients, it is clear to me that the concept of rights should be avoided and terms that do not invite such obvious misunderstandings among users should be used. What characterises a lot of Norwegian health policy today, and what we are striving for in the Norwegian health system, is that there are so many disappointed expectations going out and going. People who are faced with disappointed expectations are frustrated, of course they are, and in the next round that frustration will turn back on the professionals who are going to serve the system and who are doing the best they can. So you're inside the vicious circle. Patients are disappointed because they are given expectations that are not met, and professionals are frustrated because they are set to run a system that creates false expectations for users.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e363	Let me first say that for one time – almost – I agree with the representative of Inge Wohnning in the last time he said. And then I would like to say to the Minister of Health that yes, of course there may be some diseases that can be more problematic than others. But why should one say no to a system that would seem quite excellent for a wide range of medical problems, and in particular operations such as cataract operations and other eye operations, ear-nasal operations, hip operations, heart operations and and re surgical procedures? For there, the car repair shop comparison would be quite relevant. We also know that there are hospitals abroad that would very much like to receive, and have accepted, patients from Norway. The question has to be asked: why is capacity not sufficient? Maybe it's actually for a good part because of the way the entire production of treatment for sick people is organized. Perhaps you could organize the staff in another way, allow doctors much more time to treat sick people and get others to take care of the deskwork. I would actually say that within the current human resources it is fully possible to radically increase production. It is precisely competition that forces everyone to be effective and rational in their activities. To compare with my insurance company, which operated its own car repair shops: they have no pressure to expand the capacity when the customers, the policyholders, have no choice – when you are in a situation that you can tell the policyholders who have had the cars destroyed by the collision, that they have no choice but to wait. Then such a workshop activity can continue to have poor productivity, poor organisation and poor administration, because there is no reason to make any changes. It is the absence of the pressure that competition exerts in all other areas, which requires a reasonable use of resources. You have to use the staff for what they're going to do, and you can't afford to do the stupid things. There is no such pressure today. On the contrary, we know that, in reality, part of the private sector has much greater productivity. The celebration clinic has shown it. Others are also operating, for example. grey star, which has capacity in Norway today, and which makes things far better than public. It might be nice to ask again: Why is the Government and the Minister of Health really against the system that works in all areas where it is implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e380	The Minister of Health has now tried in several articles to make a number that, because not all patients — and especially not patients with psychiatric diagnosis — can enjoy a right to treatment immediately, we should not give this opportunity to anyone. I think Inge Wohnung in an excellent way showed that incorporating into the bill a claim that the right to treatment should only be granted within the limit set by the capacity at all times is a circular argument where you are actually at rest. Of course, this is the case, and not least psychiatric patients know that they will not get the help in full, as many of them need, the day after the law comes into force, neither with the majority's nor the minority's proposals for legislation. But I think it's worth noting – and I also think that the Christian People's Party and the Health Minister should be angry – that these patients are also asking for the minority's proposal for a law clause, and not for the majority. So you have to be a little careful about getting on your high horse and thinking that you're doing the right of the patient groups better than they think they can understand what such a right should look like in order for them to feel that their interests are being cared for. There is, in fact, a very important difference between the proposals of the minority and the majority, which are also important for patients with psychiatric diagnosis, because the minority has not applied the restriction of the majority, namely that, if you do not have the right of the service provider you have first visited, you should be able to go to another publicly funded service provider, as it is called in the majority's proposal. It's not in the minority's proposal, and it's with good advice. We limit it to authorized private institutions or service providers, precisely because we know that, not least in the psychiatric field, there are still quite a number who would like to make an extra effort in a private practice. It's not that it would solve all the problems, but at least it could help more people get treatment faster, even for their psychiatric disorders, than what it's put up for by the majority. We recognize, of course, that not all problems will be solved immediately, but we also regard the law as an active contribution to speeding up the escalating activity that we need to do. I think the patient organisations do too. That is why they have asked, and supported, the proposal put forward by the minority and, as the chairman of the committee said, is very dissatisfied with the majority proposal that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e389	Lack of capacity – yes, everyone sees that we have. However, despite this, it should be a human right in this country, in 1999, to have its disease treated of varying degrees of severity. Why do we lack capacity? Then I will address myself directly to the Minister of Health. The input-based funding has worked very well. In 1998, patients were treated far more than expected. What happens then is that the Minister of Health goes in and reduces the payment to outpatient clinics and to county councils because too many have been treated. And then you talk at the same time about having too little capacity. You don't want to approve private clinics either. Volvat has been denied several times in terms of application for bed places, and we have private psychiatrists who can accept psychiatric patients.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e396	I agree with the representative Wohning that clarification of expectations is central to health policy, and I am convinced that it is a clearer communication to say that the court has clear limitations than to give the impression that there are no such limitations, when the physical capacity in important areas of health care is actually too low. Then the representative asked Hagen why the capacity is not enough. Yes, it has to do with organization. The government has seized that. It has to do with years of neglect in priority areas such as psychiatry, cancer and equipment. The government, with the good support of the Progress Party and the majority of the Stortinget, has seized it. It has to do with funding. And we've actually received a funding arrangement that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Government have jointly given greater weight, and that leads to a pressure for increased capacity. An increase in capacity follows as a result of this scheme, so that there is actually a pressure in this field already. Then there are proposals in this law on free hospital choice across the country, which between public hospitals will introduce an important element of competition. So the representative Hagen should update itself in relation to the changes actually taking place in health policy, which contribute to a pressure to increase capacity and competition and provide strong incentives to help more people instead of the old system that gave incentives to have the longest possible waiting lists. That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e403	No salary has spoken twice and is given the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e406	I agree with the Minister of Health that it is possible to live with clear limitations. The problem with the majority of legal texts is that there is a very vague limitation. Yes, it is about as unclear as it is possible to get a criterion at all – it is said nothing about who it is that at any time determines what capacity is and what capacity is not. It is left to the discretion, and the patient will be completely helpless in relation to the discretion that takes place. On this point, the Minister of Health must also admit that the minority's proposal, although it disagrees with it in substance, is reasonably clear and does not invite an interpretation dispute, because it takes note that if the capacity of the Norwegian public health service is not present, then the patient must be able to have the offer elsewhere. For the patient, it'll probably be the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e412	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 720]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e426	This is a matter where there is a need for a limited debate. It's a very short and straightforward attitude, and the points of view are clear. I will carefully address the proposal of the Progress Party included in the vote and would also like to clarify that the Progress Party will vote against amendments to Section 12.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e433	Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 727]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e449	It's a unanimous committee that's behind this setting, and the setting is also consistent with the proposition we've got from the ministry. I would like to underline and clarify what the Committee writes in its remarks about opening up different educational and organisational trials, namely that the ministry must show liberality in the practice of the scheme. We see that the public institutions are exposed to increased competition in different areas, we see that private institutions are being established, and we also know that foreign universities and universities offer their services in the Norwegian market. It is therefore important that public universities and higher education institutions have the opportunity to meet this competition in a good way by providing good models for their activities, including through different trials. in this competition. In addition, I would like to stress that, in relation to the reform of competences, there is probably also a need for different attempts. What the Committee is concerned about is that the Ministry is liberal and positive to the extent that it sees this as necessary. I would like to stress one more thing, namely the fact that when various trials are carried out, it is important to take care of the students' rights and not weaken them. I think this is a good attitude, and that it is an important legislative change that is now to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e462	I'll be very brief. I'm glad that a group committee joins the proposals. I have chosen the Committee's comments, including: to practise the new rule liberally. I will promise to do so according to the intentions that were now carried out by the case spokesman, but of course according to the law. It should also apply to the student's rights, that they should be taken care of in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e469	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 728]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e483	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 10 minutes, Progress Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. This shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e492	I'm sorry I can't keep the post in sign language tonight, but it's due to lack of training. So the president has to carry over with my voice. The case of Odelstinget now deals with, among other things. sign language training in secondary school. It is a joint church, education and research committee that now proposes to legislate young people and adults' right to education in and in sign language at secondary school. In the spring of 1997, the government decided to ask the government for proposals for legislative changes, so that young people were given the legal right to choose sign language secondary education in a sign language environment or secondary education using interpreters in a Norwegian-speaking environment. This was followed up by the Government in its proposal in Ot.prp. No 78 for 1998-99. In the Committee's work, we have come to the conclusion that this right should also apply to adult students in high school, and the Committee also promotes a proposal in line with this. Youth today is entitled to secondary education. Among other things: A hearing-impaired youth must also have the right to choose to take secondary education in a sign-language environment or with an interpreter in a Norwegian-speaking environment. With today's Bill, young people with sign language as the first language are given an unconditional right to choose training in and in sign language in a sign language environment, or to choose to use interpreters in the ordinary secondary school. Young people who do not have sign language as first language but who, after expert judgement, need such training are given the same rights to choose. We also give adults who are admitted to higher education the same right. I believe this is important progress for disabled people and their rights. It offers better opportunities to take education and qualify for work, and it improves the quality of life. The Committee has shared the question of whether there should be an expert judgement before the county council takes decisions on training in sign language and on how to define a sign language environment. The Christian People's Party is part of the majority who want expert judgement and a definition of a sign language environment, which also includes secondary schools with node status for sign language training. The Christian People's Party believes that a right to secondary education in and in sign language should provide this group of students with the resources necessary to provide good training. The expert assessment can assess and take a position on the training needs of the sign language learner and thus ensure adapted training. These students shall also be entitled to special education if they do not, or cannot, benefit satisfactorily from the usual training provision, as provided by Section 5-1 of the Training Act. A critical factor in making the right to sign language training real is that we have qualified teachers and deaf interpreters. The Committee took note of the Ministry’s assessment of the adequacy of access. Training institutions have also launched measures to improve the search for training in sign language, but it is important that the Ministry closely monitor this situation in the future. The Committee has also found reasons to remind the Government of the decision taken in spring 1998 on the statutory right to be trained in punctuation, and we ask the Government to carry out an assessment of the organisation and the economy in the event of a retention of rights. When the Christian People's Party is involved in this decision, it is because it assesses all the possibilities and challenges associated with training in Braille for the blind and the feeble. However, the Christian People's Party wants to clarify that we will continue the integration of this group into Norwegian school, and we want to reserve something against drawing a parallel to training one for sign language students. However, these are questions we must be allowed to go into more thoroughly in the context of the assessment that the Government is now being asked for. Finally, today's amendment to the Training Act also includes a number of other points which essentially clarify the applicable rules, and I would like to refer again to the referral by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e513	It may seem that this committee is composed of representatives who are characterized by cold, and in this way it also applies to me. Now it's about a year since the Education Act was signed here in Odelstinget, and this is about following up on the Stortinget's previous decision in Innst. S. No 275 for 1996-97. It is a milestone for many that Odelstinget now deals with and adopts changes to the laws that permit a statutory right to further training in and in sign language. It is natural to see such a right in further training in conjunction with the base ball and not least in connection with the fact that the promise now also includes the adults who have been admitted to further training without being entitled to it under § 3-1. I noticed that there was a major lack of external interpreters. This is why it is positive that the Department is now working to improve its interpretation training and, at the same time, to improve its recruitment. I want to encourage the Council of State to provide this work. And then I'm going to hit a battle for an area where the action commanders didn't come in, that is, the camp balls. In many ways, the clay balls are still a stepchild in the Norwegian school system, despite the fact that most of the parties here in the hall think that the camp schools are important – we should have them. The goal of the big business is that all Norwegian elementary school students should have at least one clay schooling during the schooling period, because we believe that this is a good educational measure. And when we look at the activity, there's no doubt that it's a good measure: about 2,500 classes travel on clay schooling every year. It is now that the clay pottery was given its own regulations in 1993. It has been important to ensure and regulate this activity. The government's proposal to add the pedagogical staff to the municipality of the camp ball is positive. However, an unfortunate side effect may be that the excessive cost factor in the state bill causes the municipalities that have clay balls to actually be penalised financially and have to allow money over their own municipal budget as well as the state budget. This was a crossroads, but it is an important element in the work to ensure the skills of the camps and to ensure their recruitment. As the Ministry assesses that they have no authority in the laws to draw up regulations, I will ask the Council of State to follow these developments carefully and, if necessary, to obtain a legal basis. After 25 years of excessive security, the clay ball system should now have a foundation that provides lasting security.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e530	In Ot.prp. No 78 propose to the Ministry that young people with sign language who are given the legal right to choose secondary education in and in sign language in a sign language environment or with interpreters in ordinary secondary schools. All of this is done by cancellation and decision at the Innst. S. No 275 for 1996-97. This sounds provocative, the ministry had proposed the court uncircumcision. But it's too much! For practical and economic reasons, hearing-impaired apprentices are not covered by this right. What does such a delimitation mean? In practice, these disabled young people have to choose even narrower than those with disabilities in order to receive secondary education. The rights of persons with disabilities are subsequently not protected by, as it says, ‘practical and economic reasons’. Instead, there is a reference to the provision of supplementary grants for apprentices in need of organized education. In addition, grants may be applied for for specific expenditure, etc. In the opinion of the Progress Party, these formulas are only about economics and the fact that there is a lack of both sign language teachers and instructors, not to mention interpreters. Only now in 1999 will it be said that the organisation of school interpretation for deaf people be assessed in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. It's probably a little late when we know that we've had people with hearing impairment in this country for very many years. Don't these people have the same value as us seemingly functioning fresh? They shall be able to be offered in a sign-language environment in school departments of the special educational centres for hearing-impaired persons. It's not more than a year since we did anything about these centres of expertise, too, because there was an alarming need to increase staffing at PP offices. I don't have to say anything more about it. The right to take training at centres of excellence is again further limited to the courses offered by these schools. This also applies to node schools. Do not these students, with so many problems already, have the very least right and the ability to make an almost free choice? Or is it not so dangerous because there are not so many opportunities for work anyway? Then to the definition of the sign-language environment. The Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left found that this had to be defined somewhat more strongly because it could actually be anything, and we have put a very clear piece of legislation on this in the proposal that will be promoted. It's not just that. And so to the fact that the Storting in connection with the Training Act actually made a decision even when it was about the visually impaired and the blind, which it could have been natural to include in this context. It was not done, so the committee had to find out and raise as a new point in the draft decision. In the case of camp schools, the Progress Party will indicate that a free principle has been introduced for primary schools. However, camp schools are not free; they depend on the economy of individual parents, whether or not teachers are employed in the municipality. This means that children in Norway – regardless of their parents’ finances – do not have equal rights to schooling.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e547	Is the representative of Ursula Evje to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e550	I am addressing the proposal on which the Progress Party and the Socialist Left stand together.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e555	Ursula Evje has addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e558	In fact, it is so rare for the Progress Party and the SV to make joint proposals that it is understandable that the representative forgot to address the proposal. All in all, there is full agreement within the Committee on the main content of this matter. The Committee has asked the Government to come back with a proposal for a law, and the Government has carried out the mission, as far as I can see, in accordance with what was ordered by the Committee. Then there is a nuance difference as to how far you will go in the direction of detailing and clarifying the expression 'characteristic environment '. For my part, I do not see the very great need for that controversy at the moment, because I assume that if the wording proposed by the Government, to which the majority of the Committee subscribes, would create problems of an appreciable extent, it must be natural to come back to it at a later stage. So a small note to the representative Oppebøen Hansen’s heart attack – or “side jump”, he certainly called it – when it came to the camp school case. The representative Upbebøen Hansen is right that there are problems in this area because the municipalities have to bear a not insignificant part of the costs themselves. And it is also right, as the representative Oppebøen Hansen points out, that this can turn out unfortunate – if you choose the legislative formula proposed – for the municipalities that may be in the position that within their borders they have a camp school, possibly several, which is then charged with extra costs. But that problem could be solved very easily by the representative voting for the minority's proposals, because then the problem will not be there in that form. There is no disagreement between the majority and minorities that camp schools are important educational offers and good educational offers. The disagreement is whether it is appropriate to bind the staff to an employment relationship in the municipality where the camp school is located. In the opinion of the minority, it will create a rigidity in the system that is not for the good, either for the camp schools or for the municipalities responsible for them. So on this point, I would say that the reference in the attitude of the minority to the opinion of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is quite relevant. I quote: ‘We want the departments of trade to be restrictive in relation to proposing many and detailed requirements for the activities of the municipality. ‘... In my opinion, this proposal clearly falls within the category ‘too many and too detailed requirements for the operation of the municipality’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e576	That post we just heard was a typical post for Inge Wage. Here we treat an important legislative change, which includes a minority group, and then he uses one sentence on it and is a little funny because the Progress Party and SV stand together. For the rest of the time he uses to talk about camp school, which is a trivial matter in relation to the matter. That matter is to grant rights to a group as per. today do not have these. This amendment will give them the right to choose training courses. This applies to young people who have sign language as their first language and to young people who do not have sign language as their first language but who, after expert judgement, are also entitled to choose where to take the training. I am pleased with the clarification that the committee has made in the vote, a clarification that came after we had taken up another proposal, which did not get a majority, but which went something further. In addition, the Committee has clarified in this proposal that the scheme also applies to adults who have sign language as their first language or who will use sign language. I regret that we have not received a majority in favour of the proposal for the definition of sign-language environment – that was what Inge Wohnning thought it was funny that SV and the Progress Party were united. I am not sure that Inge Wohnung has discovered what the difference is. What the Progress Party and SV say is that with our definition of sign language environment, we expand students' choices in relation to today's system. That's what we're doing. The law governing the text of the right has defined sign-language environment as an environment in which they have organised offers. An ordinary secondary school with organised offerings is defined as a sign language environment. We want to define the sign-language environment to include traditional centres of expertise. And it has something to do with the view of education, it has something to do with the view of training. Training is not just a matter of a particular educational situation. It is the overall environment in which the students go and where they have to function, which will be the training environment of the students. And then it's important, in the environment they're going to, and the environment they're going to be in, that most of the people they're going to communicate with can communicate with them, that's. that they use sign language as language. We are not saying with this proposal that the rivers should go there, but we are saying that the students should have this choice, and it is somewhat surprising that the Right, who is concerned with choices, does not support this proposal. Because we actually have examples of students wanting to go to a competence center, but the county council has said that we have a node institution, that's what we have, and that's what you have to choose – even if the students want to go strongly to a competence center and live in this sign-language environment. It surprises me, as I said, that the Right does not want to participate in this proposal, in order to extend the students' choice. Ursula Evje has well taken up the joint proposal for the new and re term, so I won't do it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e599	Yeah, it's already done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e603	The main part of the legislative proposal that has been put forward, which is now to be discussed, relates to proposals for changes to the laws that will grant individual rights to deaf and severely underprivileged young people in the secondary school. The legislative proposal is a follow-up to decisions in Stortinget, cf. Inner. S. No 275 for 1996-97. I agree with those who have said that this is a historic and important day, with the passing on of dishes that have been in the foundation, which are now also coming to the secondary school. The proposal implies that young people who have sign languages as their first language will have the legal right to choose further training in and in sign languages in a sign language environment or further training using interpreters in ordinary secondary schools. Before deciding on such training, the county council shall carry out an expert assessment. In the case of the target group of the court, the legal proposal provides that the court shall apply to deaf and severely hearing-impaired young people who are entitled to further training under the Training Act § 3-1 and who have sign language as their principal language. It is the individual’s own perception of linguistic identity that is decisive to the court. If a seeker is in doubt about the language choice, the expert body will be able to assess this in consultation with the sea core. Any person who does not have sign languages as a first language but still needs sign language training will be able to receive such training under the regulations on special education in Chapter 5 of the Training Act. I note that the committee is already in favour of the legislative proposal to include adults. In St.meld. No 32 for 1998-99, Further training, the Ministry suggested that the adults admitted to further training should be granted the individual right to complete the training course under the same conditions as the current course. I initially saw it so that dishes for adults should be brought in for the treatment of St.meld. No 32, but of course I take note of the committee's proposals. Those who want to be trained in a sign-language environment will be able to do so in the school departments by centres of competence for hearing impairment and some county focal points. These are ordinary municipal secondary schools which have special competence and organized training provision for deaf and severely hard-headed elephants and for hearing impairments. Various measures have been taken in connection with the legislative proposal. This applies, inter alia, to: the development of curricula and teaching materials and the enhancement of the skills of teachers. In addition, efforts are being made to develop and coordinate the supply of foreign exchange and payment systems in connection with the right. The Ministry aims to ensure that the law can be implemented as from the 2000-2001 school year. So a little bit about bitmaps. The Committee refers to the decision of the Storting during the examination of the Innst. O. No 70 for 1997-98: ‘The decision asks the Government to bring an action on the statutory right to be trained in writing. ‘... The Committee requests that this Decision be followed up as soon as possible. The Ministry is in the initial phase to settle the issue of the statutory right to education in typesetting, with the aim of bringing forward legislative proposals on this spring 2000. In its opinion, the Committee proposed this Decision: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit a notification based on an assessment of the organisation and the economy associated with a rights-based access to training in Braille for the feeble and blind as an addition to ordinary education for the blind and partially sighted. The training shall take place either in the punctuation environment or integrated into the ordinary school at the student's own request. ‘... I have noticed this, and find it most natural to come back to these assessments in the bill on the right to be trained in bitmap writing. Such a bill would include assessments of the cost of such a bill, as well as a review of what kind of organization would be the most appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e637	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 729]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e645	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-4.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e651	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 2 and 5, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from Annelise Höegh on behalf of the Right Proposals Nos. 1 to 4 is included in the adjustment, while proposal No. 5 is distributed in the hall. Proposal No. 4, from the right, says: «The Council asks the Government in line with the recommendation of the NOU 1997:18, Re-priority, set up re-presentative disciplines to advise on priorities in its own field, and a coordinating, permanent prioritisation committee to advise on the priorities of patient groups. ‘... This proposal will be submitted to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e688	For the first sentence, two divergent proposals are made. That is proposal No. 2 by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on The proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘The provisions of the Patient Rights Act are replaced by the following: § 1-1, first sentence, the first sentence is replaced by the following:The purpose of the Act is to ensure the right of the population to health care and equal access to good quality health care from the municipal health service, including the care of the elderly and the specialist healthcare service. ‘The proposal from the Right reads: ‘The first sentence of Section 1-1 of the Patient Rights Act shall be replaced by the following:The purpose of the Act is to ensure the right of the public to health care and equal access to good quality healthcare from the local health service and the specialist healthcare service. ‘... The President will first vote on the proposal from the Progress Party, and then alternately between the vote and the proposal from the Right. The Progress Party has announced that they support the Right's proposals in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e728	It is then voted over the second sentence of Section 1-1.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e736	Further adjustment was made:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e772	The President will then vote on § 2-1 and § 2-3. Paragraphs 2 to 2 will be returned by the President.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e798	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Party of Advancement and the Right: ‘The provisions of the Patient Rights Act are replaced by the following: § 2-1 is replaced by the following:§ 2-1 Right to health careThe patient is entitled to immediate assistance.The patient is entitled to the necessary health care from the local health service.The patient is entitled to the necessary health care from the specialist healthcare service to be provided within an individually prescribed medically justified period. If the patient does not receive treatment from the specialist health service within the deadline, the patient has the same cost framework for treatment at another public or authorised private health institution in the state or abroad on public account. The proposition's proposals for § § § 2-1, 2-2 and 2-3 become § 2-2, § 2-3 and § 2-4 respectively. Paragraphs 2 to 3 are replaced by the following:Sections 2 to 3 Right to reviewThe patient has no reference to the general right to reconsider his health status of the specialist healthcare service. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e843	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: « § 2-4 is replaced by the following:§ 2-4 Right to choose a hospitalThe patient has the right to choose a treatment site covered by public health plans including private specialists with operating contracts. This does not apply to treatment in children’s and adolescents’ psychiatry. The patient cannot choose the level of treatment. Travel costs of free hospital selection are covered by the National Agency, the County Council and the patient with one third each. The patient's share is limited up to NOK 400, the other is divided equally between the Rikstrygdever ket and the county. ‘... The right-hand side has warned that they're going against the second term. It is therefore the first to vote on the proposal of the Progress Party, then on the position of the Committee on the first paragraph, and finally on the position of the Committee on the third paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e877	The President will then vote on § 2-2 and § 2-5.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e1044	There are two different proposals from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Proposal No. 5 replaces the proposal in the vote under proposal No. 2 in the case of § 4-9, first paragraph. Proposal No. 2 sounds: « § 3-4 is replaced by the following:§ 3-4 Information when the patient is a minorIf the patient is under 18 years of age, both the patient and the parents or others with parental responsibility should be informed. If the Child Protection Service has taken over the custody of children under 18 years of age under § 4-8 or § 4-12 of the Child Protection Act, the same shall apply to the child protection service. § 3-6, second paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:If health professionals provide information which is subject to a legal obligation to provide information, the information to which it relates shall be informed of the information provided and of the information to which it relates. Paragraph 4-1 of the first paragraph is replaced by the following: Health care can only be provided with the patient’s informed consent, unless there is a legal basis or other valid legal basis for providing health care without consent. In order for consent to be valid, it is necessary to demonstrate that the patient has received the necessary information on his health status and the content of the health care. The first paragraph of Section 4-3 is replaced by the following:The right to consent to health care has legal personality, unless otherwise provided for by specific legal provisions. § 4-4 first and second paragraphs are replaced by the following:The parents or others with parental responsibility are entitled to consent to health care for patients under 18 years of age.If the Child Welfare Service has taken over care of children under 18 years of age under the Child Protection Act § 4-8 or § 4-12, the Child Welfare Service has the right to consent to health care. ‘... Proposal No. 5 sounds: « § 4-9 first paragraph shall read as follows:The patient is not entitled to refuse to receive blood or blood products or to refuse to interrupt an ongoing hunger strike. ‘... The President shall first allow votes to be taken between the respective paragraphs and the terms of the vote and the proposals of the Advancement Party. In the case of § 3-6, alternative voting is made between the second and third paragraphs of the suspension and the second paragraph of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The third paragraph of Section 4-5 shall then be contested. The Progress Party has announced here that they will vote against it. Finally, the other paragraphs and paragraphs under Chapters 3 and 4 are added.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e1270	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: « § 7-1 is replaced by the following:§ 7-1 Right of appealDecision under § 2-1 may be appealed against by patients or by relatives when they have applied for health care on their own. care for patients. The patient who has received a refusal of assessment under Section 2-2 to the reassessment requirement under Section 2-3 or on the request to change the hospital under Section 2-4 may appeal against the decision.The patient or the family member who considers that the provision of the right to participation and the right to information, the right to transparency, correction and deletion of the record and the right to self-determination have not been complied with may complain of a breach of the health care professional's obligations under the law. §8-1 is replaced by the following:§8-1 PurposeThe Ombudsman shall work to ensure that patients are not subjected to injustice and that health professionals do not neglect their duties. In addition, the patient representative shall work to address the patient’s needs, interests and legal certainty regarding healthcare and to improve the quality of healthcare. The patient ombudsman shall carry out his/her activities independently and independently and has professional secrecy under the Health Care Professional Act. § 8-2 is replaced by the following:§ 8-2 The scope and responsibilities of the schemeThe Ombudsman shall be a State responsibility with representative in all counties of the country. The responsibilities and work of the healthcare professionals shall include the specialist health service, both somatic and psychiatric, and the primary health service. The sixth paragraph of Section 8-7 shall be replaced by the following:The Ombudsman shall be able to take individual decisions on matters governed by regulations. ‘... Alternatively, between the respective paragraphs and the sections of the suspension and the proposal of the Progress Party, and then above the other paragraphs and paragraphs of Chapters 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e1349	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e1356	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e1362	During the debate, Ms Knudsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the following proposal: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for legislative revision as soon as possible, where membership of student relations is voluntary. ‘... This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e1412	The party of progress has announced that they are moving towards it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e1435	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e1442	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e1506	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e1513	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e1519	During the debate, Mr Evje, on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, put forward the proposal, which was included on page 3 of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e1614	To the second paragraph there is a different proposal from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘ Paragraphs 3 to 9 of the second paragraph are replaced by the following: Symbolically speaking, the school is meant where sign language is the main language and where all provision is organized for hearing aids. ‘... The second paragraph of the voting shall be replaced by the present proposal, after which the Committee shall be nominated to the other paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e1650	The party of progress and the Right has announced that they are against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e1672	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e1680	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e1690	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud1165e1699	There is no record.
