ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e15	The requested alternate of the Rogaland County State, Ingrid Fiskaa, is requested to be exempted from the meeting of the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland’s leave from the evening meeting on Tuesday 15 June to 16 June, for reasons of well-being. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternate, Kari Oftedal Lima, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Kari Oftedal Lima is present and will take the seat. From the representative Svein Ludvigsen there is an application for leave from the evening meeting on Tuesday 15 June until Friday 18 June to attend the Nordic Council meeting in St. Petersburg. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Elisabeth Aspaker, is hereby invited to meet during the period of leave.3. Elisabeth Aspaker is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Svein Ludvigsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e50	Elisabeth Aspaker is present and will take the seat. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e64	Now we're dealing with operasaka for the fifth time in this hundred years. Four times before, we've been close to building a new opera house in this country. For those of us who have seen the current opera building from the inside or from the back, it is not hard to understand that it is now high time for a new building. The ratios for those behind the stage are the same as I experienced in my childhood in rural areas when we played amateur theaters. It's not a national opera worth! It should not lead to a presence where they still have to practice in corridors and cellars and change costumes among stage workers. Norway now needs a new opera, and it's natural to add it to Oslo. But it's a building for the whole country, and that's why we're all going to be involved in determining where and how this opera should be. This isn't just one Oslo case. The centre party goes primarily into the construction of an opera on the West Railway. On the West Railway, a new opera can be completed within a relatively short period of time, and we have waited long enough. It's also the safest and best option. The Opera can become a natural part of an established cultural and entertainment context. Opera and ballet have not had such strong traditions in Norway. The choice of location and design will therefore be important to enable the Opera to reach a wide audience and to grow younger and new groups. Everyone who has studied the subject with a cultural policy angle has also joined the West Railway. It has also been striking that the two previous cultural ministers, both of them from the Workers' Party, had the plans ready for the Western Railway. When a new Minister of Culture, from the Central Party this time, finally put forward a proposal on the West Railway, the Labour Party turns round and goes in for Bjørvika. It is also no less striking that former Minister of Culture Kleveland made a clear contribution to the Western Path. Now the same person is a candidate for the Oslo Labour Party. Then it's all of a sudden so much better cultural policy to add the Opera to Bjørvika. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get Now, at least it looks like we're getting a decision, which the Labour Party never did. When dealing with the issue of a new opera house last year, it was also clear that a broad political majority wanted a new opera house to be built in Norway, if there was not a multiple then for any of the localization options. If we prefer the Western runway, we still see that Bjørvika can be a subsidiary solution if other urban development is disconnected. Here we need to know if we're going to get it right now. If the construction of opera houses has been made dependent on the progress of the other urban development, it is not the town of Bjørvika. You cannot join the Center Party. The government has made this clear in the staging proposition. Since last year, the Ministry of Culture has carried out extensive distribution work, especially in Bjørvika. It is now possible to get a nice opera house in Bjørvika. The problems associated with an independent opera house in Bjørvika have been reduced to an acceptable level. The foundation appears to be manageable. An opera house offline an urban development solution will be ready in 2008 – something after the Western Railway. We see this as an acceptable solution in the event of a fall in the Western Railway Alternative. As a result, this has now been a good basis for the Stortinge to take decisions. The working conditions of the Opera make it mandatory to solve this construction case now. It is clear that the government has focused on quality assurance of the costs of a new opera house. Similarly, it is an assumption that the project is managed with a view to not increasing costs, calculated at a fixed price level. The Central Party believes that national opera, regional opera and district opera must be developed at the same time as the construction of a new opera house. In order to strengthen the circulation of operas in Norway and support them under the nationwide interest in operas, it is important to build on local operas and interest in this in the local environment. In this, professional forces must be the driving force. There must be an objective to stimulate production both in the regions and in the districts. This is now behind the proposal of the committee and is, apart from the opera building itself, one of the most important things in the vote. Otherwise, the Opera, both through its repertoire and the ticket policy, must try to reach new groups. There is a registered increased interest in opera in Norway now, not least after the debate in the later period. Therefore, it is also important that a new opera house be given in a new way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e83	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e86	In the nations today, several central party representatives express strong scepticism to Bjørvika, as their own government council has recommended subsidiaryly. The background seems to be hopeful that many new road millions will be available to District Norway if the Western Railway is chosen. No quail bay actually gives the impression that she may vote against the Bjørvika. It gives rise to two questions. Firstly, has the Central Party made new promises about road millions? And: Can Unn Aarrestad assure us that this evening the Central Party will provide a majority for the subsidiary solution that their Council of State wants? The latter may be good to know during the further debate. I must also ask the representative of Unn Aarrestad about the protection of cultural heritage. Members of the Christian People's Party, Right and Center Parties write in a note the following: ‘In the opinion of these members, there may hardly be any extension purposes other than an opera house to justify the demolition of the station master building and thereby trigger this economic gain. At the same time, this will also allow for better exposure of the opera house as a monumental building.» It is also assumed that the Ministry of Culture, by all means, will initiate a process to end the rescue of a part of the building mass on the western runway. It's the first time something like this happens, and it's mildly alarming. And the Minister of Culture must lead the way! It obliges private individuals across the whole country to take care of protected buildings without any state financial assistance. Often the owners are not even allowed to change a doormat, not to say windows in dwellings in which they have to live. When the state itself sees the possibility of saving a few million dollars on a billion investment, only a simple decision will cancel the rescue. Doesn't the representative of Unn Aarrestad and the Central Party see how wrong this is? And what precedent will this create in future matters, especially when basing upon the highness of the objective, which is essential for the repeal or non-recovery of a rescue decision?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e102	First of all, with the demolition of the station master building. We should be aware that in the previous staging proposition for a new opera house, this was a proposal from the Government, precisely to be able to build a monumental building with a view of the port and sea, and to make more of this. So there was no vision for this in the previous process, and so it's not in the last proposition. But I think this should be possible and appreciated – that is what I have said about this. Then it's quite clear that all central party representatives will vote subsidiaryly for Bjørvika, but our primary wish is the West Course, for very good reasons. Sometimes, when the Labour Party comes and talks about the districts, the road money and different things, I feel a little bit that it's a substitute motive. I'm thinking about the debate last year, and even the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen used his whole article on the Opera to talk about the road media. So we're starting to wonder what it's really about for the Workers' Party. And if it's that one wants to have activity in this area in Oslo, then I have to ask: Where was the Workers' Party then a supposed location of Telenor's new building with several thousand jobs, and chose Fornebu? Why didn't a Bjørvika choose, if that's what one had in mind - or was it just to spend government money in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e109	I understood the post of the representative Aarrestad there that half was concerned with a criticism of the Workers' Party that they have fallen on the Bjørvika option. And then there was a small sequence that the Center Party says that they also subsidiaryly want to go for the same option. I feel that this is not related, so I would like to think that the representative could clarify it a little. The representative, Aarrestad, also spent a lot of time using common sense in this matter. I want to challenge the representative: how far is the Central Party and the representative of Aarrestad willing to go in terms of using funds for opera? I also noticed that the representative was very concerned that the strengthening of regional operations and district operas would go parallel to the construction of a new opera house. I have shown in a previous post today that by a decision of the Bjørvika option today we will have annual costs of 550 million. kr for opera. We also know that last year, when the proposition was made, the estimate for the opera in Bjørvika was NOK 4 billion. So it's gone up to $1.8 billion. How far is the representative of Aarrestad willing to go before the Central Party takes advantage of the common sense in this matter? How far is the Central Party willing to go as we now get the large exceedances through the estimates of the Bjørvika option, if there is a decision on that? They're willing to spend 3,000 million. NOK, they're willing to spend 600 million. kr in annual costs of opera, or are they open to use common sense and wit, as Unn Aarrestad himself provided?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e116	I noticed that the representative Sandberg had a press release in Trønderavis yesterday, where he was afraid of the central party's troubling as a district party. At the same time, he's afraid, if we think about culture, that the alternative can be Bjørvika when we want something about the culture of the Center Party. So we know, if the Progress Party has not changed its mind since the last meeting was seen, that they will vote against it all. I think it's a pretty big paradox that the Progress Party is trying to do what they can to change the proposal for a decision, and then they're sitting on their backs, shutting down completely and don't want to be on anything. I want to see that day the party of progress, having voted against everything, voted against Bjørvika as the most expensive, voted against the West course, which could have been much cheaper, should explain this to people and talk about their taxpayers' money, having settled quietly and quietly and just let it become Bjørvika. Here the Progress Party could have gone in and really done something, be with and located the Opera to the cheapest and best place. This is what I'll call an inexhaustible game from the Progress Party. We're a district party, and we want an opera for the whole country. It's also clear from all the gallups that people want an opera. We think the best option is the Western Railway, but we vote subsidiaryly for Bjørvika because we will now have an opera. We also know that we've said a sum, and we're not going outside.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e125	We're all going to be there to decide where the Opera should be, says the representative Aarrestad. But not the Center Party, because they say at the same time, it's the same for us where the Opera is. So they don't want to be part of this. The representative, Aarrestad, has passed by that I made a note of the 375 million in my post. kr in so far estimated extra costs that will be incurred by travelling a building in Bjørvika in relation to an identical building on the West Railway? Three hundred and seventy-five million. kr represents more than 10 years of appropriations for local and regional cultural buildings. But this is what district parity is in favour of the centre party! Where are they going to get the money? Should it be from the districts? I really wonder. The center party is known for being excellent horse dealers, there's something that this batch can do. But I'm afraid that this horse will be a loss project, I have to say. But it's going to be in the case of the Center Party's headache. I have also noticed that the representative Aarrestad is very quick to say that the Progress Party is turning itself off. Let it be clear that neither the Centre Party nor the Advance Party can disengage the Advance Party in this matter. It is up to the Progress Party to control the Center Party, and that must be a real problem for the Center Party. Doesn't that seem like the Aarrestad representative?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e136	Let it be quite clear that the Center Party now wants a decision on an opera building in Norway located in Oslo as the natural place for such a building. At the same time, I also said in my speech that in parallel with this, the proposal for Decision II states that we will also have a framework for ballet, opera and opera development throughout the country. This is happening in parallel with building up the Opera in Oslo. I also said we need an opera in the country, we need a new building. It's not an opera worth having it the way they have it now. We've seen that by self-esteem quite a lot of us. Then, whether we're from Oslo or Rogaland, we're going to be involved in determining where the Opera should be, what it should look like and what it should cost. We are just going in to get something, contrary to Right, that could have been in favour and voted subsidiaryly for something other than the West Railway. Now it's much better than it was a year ago, and now the financial framework is fixed, and we're linking it entirely from other road and urban development in the Bjørvika area. It also had the Right's ability to support, but they only sit down when they don't get what they want. Even as safe as that was, they won't be there. Then they owe the Center Party for not taking responsibility! We're just doing it to get a building, unlike right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e143	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e146	Whether the opera batten in this round should deserve characteristics such as farces, soap operas or tragedy, may later be judged, but at least I hope this day does not end with the complete death of the last act, while the faithless joker stands victorious back in the scenes. Both for Norway as a cultural nation and for the credibility of the Stortinget, it is important that we get a clarification decision, and I expect that we do. This time too, the political game has been central to the debate, and I must say that it has been frustrating to witness that the government parties and the Right have sometimes allowed the anti-cultural Progress Party to take the lead. On the upstream side, these batches released new bait as bait. We must now make sure that cultural life and Opera do not become the losers in this game. I must give the Council of State and the Government the praise that the basis for decision is good this time. We in SV have every reason to rely on the information and calculations presented in the proposition, which is the basis for the Council of State to go for what, in her opinion, is the second best choice of places. What we're not satisfied with is that this time, too, there's no special debate about content and framework for the development of music drama and dance throughout the country. It is too pale for the Government and the majority to propose the development of a model of opera and ballet mediation within the completion of the new opera house. If we are to get the full count of the cultural promise that the construction of one of the most important national buildings of our century is, we must ensure that all the forces that will contribute to the development and renewal of music drama and ballet get good conditions and opportunities to flourish now. There is no need to wait, especially because the development of the creative infrastructure throughout the country – all the creative forces – is a prerequisite for a new opera house to lead to the cultural policy promise that the majority and cultural life will have, namely to convey high-quality opera and ballet to a wide audience, where new audiences can also be reached. To achieve this goal, opera and ballet will only have to evolve now. I have a feeling that many people think that just getting a house, everything will work out. Let's say that with today's highly unsatisfactory premises for the Norwegian Opera, an important prerequisite is missing for the Opera to play its full role as a national centre of competence and resources for culture throughout the country. None of us would have found us in the working conditions of the employees of the Norwegian Opera. The biscene is missing for narrower and experimental productions and for chamber opera productions. The house is important for cultural life throughout the country. But a new house does not automatically give a new content. Opera and ballet do not have long and rooted traditions here in the country. Right now there's a lot of interest and will among artists, creators and performers, professionals and amateurs, to participate in developing music dramas and dances. The operator's manifesto and thoughts of greater cooperation are an expression of exactly that. Much of the exciting is happening right now in environments outside the capital. I therefore feel that it is a pity that SV stands alone to ask the Government to develop a comprehensive plan for the development of opera and ballet art and for the production and dissemination of it throughout Norway, and to file a case for the Stortinget as soon as and later by 2002. In fact, establishing a framework for opera and ballet throughout Norway is more important than whether the opera house is built in Bjørvika or on the West Railway. The interest in opera and ballet is flourishing in several cities and in many places. Cooperation between professionals in theaters, orchestras and dance environments, and between professionals and good amateurs, has made people go women and men of houses to see music theaters and dances. Opera has been characterized by many as a narrow start. Yeah, well, it's an important part of a diverse cultural life. It's not just for the freak. In many places it has become popular culture. In the evening post on Sunday we could read about the taxi driver who sings in the opera choir in Kristiansund, which goes from day shift to opera exercises, and who has a close relationship with this art. He actually tells about how art and culture provide opportunities for quality of life, experiences, creativity and participation – for living communities. Renewal of opera and ballet takes place in the capital, but also in Bergen and Kristiansund, in Trondheim and in Mo in Rana. It happens and will continue to happen with the Norwegian Opera as an important engine in the development work. Among other things, a new house is important. But it is also important to support initiatives taken in environments outside Oslo. There must be a whole over this strategy. When SV wants a plan for development, production and dissemination, we aim for the districts to have a rapid investigation of both regional and district operas, and for performers across the country to have tasks and opportunities to develop. The aim must be to ensure that composers, librettists and dramatists in Oslo and beyond have a framework that allows for even greater innovation and innovation, contemporary music and contemporary dance, but also the renewal of old repertoire. So what does that mean? Among other things, to bet deliberately on giving Norwegian composers and librettists the task of writing new works, to work in working groups, such as: The operator, which is a collaboration between the Norwegian Opera, Composers' Association and the Opera Vest. Furthermore, the art of our time must be anchored in the Norwegian audience by meeting the best of foreign ensembles, and the performance of works from our values. The meeting with opera and ballet must already take place at school, where the kids are given the opportunity to create sails, not just to be communicated to. So to position. SV also enters this round for the opera in Bjørvika. We're concerned that we get a magnificent building with air and space around and with a sweeping great location that can tell the generations after us that we think that art and culture are important. The Opera House will have an effect both on the West Railway and in Bjørvika. On the West Railway there will be a hatch parking on a too narrow site, and the Opera will have to fight about the attention with other constructions. In Bjørvika, the Opera will mean the beginning of a development in a neglected area, as the location of the City Hall was in Pipervika 70 years ago. The Opera Building will shape a whole new city that links the history of Oslo in Old Oslo with the Quadrature. SV and the Workers' Party, which has the setting, that we want the location of opera houses in Bjørvika to be carried out independently of the further road and urban development in the area; we are going so far. But no one believes that the Opera is going to be on its own – at a construction site, at a crossroads or in a “lazy environment”, as someone has called it? No, this will mean the beginning of a new life, a living part of the city by the water. The Norwegian Architects' Association has objections to the fact that the location does not take place on the basis of a regulatory plan for the whole area. I actually understand the objections. And I expect Oslo, along with the state, to be speeding up the work on the regulation plan for the entire district. The municipality's in good shape. Obviously, it would have been best if the position had taken place on the basis of a larger plan. But I'm sure the planning of the rest of the area will take into account the Opera and its architecture. An architectural competition in 2000 will make important contributions to the planning of the entire area. It's been a game to bring the Progress Party to the West Railway. Last year, the centre parties rejected the plan to tear down the station master building. Now the central parties are proposing to repeal the rescue decision. Not to get more space for opera, but for more shops and hotels. The peace decision for the entire West Railway was made after a thorough treatment no more than five years ago. If the result of this game – which is a game to make the Opera look like a low-priced opera – is that the rescue decision will be lifted, it will be to put a bomb under the law on cultural memories. Other builders are signaled that peaceful cultural memories stand in the way of their interests – and they always do. We think this is scandalous, and we're pretty upset that it goes on. We have other visions for the Western Railway: think of a peace center. That is where we agree with the centre party. The artisans can still be in the Station Master's Building, and thus this group of artists can also gain the visibility they deserve. New main library can have one on parts of the site, and we have several visions: Think about creative forces can do something about the old train tunnel between East and West. Why not fish and vegetable halls, small restaurants, shops and workshops right there. It's then a pretty amazing vision that can be realized. I'll mention our suggestion in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e183	Ågot Valle has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e188	It's a party to listen to Ågot Valle when she describes the importance of Opera and Opera, the culture, the spread of the whole country, and how important this is. She's the best one to put words on it an entire committee thinks. I agree with the heart until we get to the location. Unfortunately, SV will go across all the councils and judge the Opera of a life in Bjørvika, a solution that will reduce the opera's ability to be exactly a resource and competence base for the district and regional operation that SV expects it to be and that we all want it to be. They're in favour of a solution that's so expensive that it's likely to lead to smaller appropriations for surgery across the country. Is it so that the SV in this matter of cultural policy puts the culture and the Opera itself in second order, and will still use the opera building as a breakstone for urban development in Bjørvika? Does SV not see that the costs of developing Bjørvika can become so large that there may only be housing complexes for millionaires who can be billable here? And what joy SV's voters will have from that private investment in homes by the sea with a price tag of 10 million. kr and upwards? I'm sure the millionaires will have a great time there. It could be a nice part of the city, but it probably wasn't the idea of the Workers' Party and the SV behind the whole urban development. And what would that mean for the Opera if this were to be the neighborhood? Should SV be involved and in a way earmark the Opera of the National High Castle? That's something that we're taking away from in the very strongest way. For the Opera must be located where all sorts of people naturally travel, and so they do on the West Course. That's where the cultural centre of gravity lies in Oslo, around the top Karl Johan, from the National Gallery and down towards the West Railway. Here we have a cultural center of gravity with institutions that have their fixed buildings, and they don't move to Bjørvika. Oslo is not big enough for two such centres of gravity.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e199	I am pleased that we agree that the focus on culture is important. So I also have in mind that SV will spend more money on culture, so that we can get a cultural development across the country. It's just 0.7 pst. the State budget goes to activities above the Ministry of Culture’s budget, and what we consider to be of little value to a cultural nation. I also appreciate the compliments. And I have to say that I was particularly happy last year when the representative Inger Stolt-Nielsen was the philanthropist for lack of cultural commitment. It was also a pleasure to listen. Then she says that all the board of experts is that the Opera is to be built on the West Railway. It is also the case in cultural life and among architects that there is disagreement as to where there is best counting. I can see that people don't see Bjørvika today as the ideal place for the Opera. But think for a few years to come – then the Opera is there, sweeping great, visible, so we say that art and culture are important. I'm pretty sure the next few generations will thank us for leaving the Opera right there – if that's the result. And I hope so! So the representative says Pride-Nielsen that we just have to put the Opera where people move. Now I believe and know that people travel right in the area around Bjørvika, and there's a lot of people there. It's also a natural transport point. But I'm pretty sure that when we first put the Opera there, the rest of the development will come of itself. And then we have instruments in politics if we want to, and we can make it possible for reasonable housing to be built so that ordinary people can live in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e210	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e213	Norway needs a new opera building — it is the heart of the matter, short and well. We in the Left want Norway as a cultural nation to take care of our civilization's cultural expression in music, theatre, dance and ballet, all of these art species that meet under the roof of the Opera. The left will give the artists an arena to evolve and their art continues. Opera is an amazing cultural form because it combines music, dance, drama and stage photography. Critical voices say that the opera is for the few. Look to Kristiansund – as the representative Valle also did – who has developed an opera offer in Festivity, making opera part of the popular culture. 5 pst. by Tustna’s population dances ballet – Tustna, the island community half an hour ferry trip north of Kristiansund with barely 1,000 inhabitants, with fishing and agriculture as the main routes of nutrition. It's a myth that opera is too fictitious – in that case, it's because ordinary people are too far away from places where opera art is practiced. The left wants the opera to be for the many. The left will bet on the opera because it engages. We want the opera to be important to many more than the opera opera of the day. We aim to create an enthusiasm around the Oslo Opera, like the one we experience in Kristiansund. The left supports proposals to develop a model for opera and ballet distribution in Norway in the completion of the new opera house. When we finally decide today to build a new opera, we hope that it will be possible to travel a monumental building. An opera building, a cultural building, we should have the same relationship as our ancestors had with the cathedrals they built. It's going to be in centuries, it's going to mirror our contemporary artistic and memorable forms of expression. In order for a building to become monumental, some requirements must be met: 1st@item: inlistbox There must be room around the building, it must be possible to shield the building from distance.2. The building must be an independent expression, even if it must take into account surrounding buildings.3. The building is going to stir up feelings, we're going to be proud and happy when we see the building. The castle in Oslo, the Court of Trondhjem, the Ice Sea Cathedral in Tromsø, arouses feelings and pride in the Norwegian people. We now have the opportunity to review what we did not get when we squeezed Oslo Konserthus into the anonymity in Vika. We don't have to travel further than to Gothenburg and Helsinki to experience monumental opera buildings. If we travel around the globe, we come to one of the world's perhaps most famous buildings, the Opera in Sydney, drawn by Jørn Utzon. The left will have an international competition for the opera building. We believe that a location of the Opera on the West Railway will give the Opera great opportunities to appear as a monumental magnificent building we can be proud of for many generations to come. Norway needs an opera, and it is Storting's responsibility to ensure that our nation acts as a cultural nation. Safe propulsion, faster completion and lower construction costs are the main reasons why the Western Railway is the most realistic option. The left will vote for a location of the Opera on the West Railway Area. However, the left is pleased that the Government will open up a location in Bjørvika if the Western Railway does not gather a majority. This time, unlike the last time we dealt with the matter, Bjørvika appears to be a realistic alternative. The left is skeptical to the location because of the traffic situation and uncertainties surrounding the plans for expansion in the area around it. The arrival of an opera in Bjørvika is not ideal. The location of the opera at the heart of Bjørvika is also not the luckiest, based on the desire to create a monumental building. In addition, the Bjørvika alternative is more expensive and the propulsion is associated with some uncertainty. We in the Left will nevertheless vote in favour of this solution. Let me end by complimenting the Council of State, which has driven the matter up to a final decision, and which has been so bewildered by the idea of building an opera that she has been great enough to cut through so that the cultural nation of Norway will finally get a worthy opera house. I congratulate the Council of State on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e254	The Labour Party wants a new opera house to be built in our country. We have National Theatre, National Gallery and National Museums, but we lack a national opera house. For 100 years, efforts have been made to achieve this in Norway, and now a broad majority agree that this should be achieved. Therefore, it is constructive for the Government that it has made a proposal to enable it to cut through the localisation dispute. The working party wants the Opera to be placed in Bjørvika. The reasons for this can be found in Proposition No by the Ministry of Culture. 48 to the great council, where they write of Bjørvika: ‘The void has a high potential for more overall exposure, since an opera building could appear as a stand-alone and independent monument as well as from the sea side as from the entrance from the north and south.... The empty area also provides the opportunity to relate to a greater landscape relationship between Akershu’s fortress in the west and the ruins of the Sørenga and Ekeberg slope in the east. The localisation option in Bjørvika is the only option that will have a significant impact on the experience of future urban structure and urban landscape at an overall level. An opera building in Bjørvika introduces new conditions for the further growth of the area... » Construction of opera houses shall not be made dependent on the progress of other urban development, but there is little doubt that an opera house in Bjørvika will have a significant impact on this part of the city and on the east of Oslo. Some people seem to believe that it is less worthy of cultural policy to place the construction of an opera house in a broader urban planning perspective. In this case, there is a collision course with cultural people in a wide range of countries. We should be glad that cities around the world have had people with visions who have managed to develop cities using monumental buildings. What's so culturally correct about putting the Opera on the Western Railway? Such a location requires the State to break a rescue decision by tearing down the State Master Building on the West Railway, the Opera will be trapped between Aker Brygge and Oslo City Hall, and the land of the State will be sold to accommodate even more businesses around, as part of the funding. The Oslo Christian People's Party does not agree with its own government. Christian People's Party Group Leader in Oslo City Board writes in today's Evening Post: ‘The west course is inviting and beautiful, and invites you to activities that suit the buildings. For a developing city, there is no problem in finding good alternatives for the area. But we don't need any more malls here?" Evolution is moving fast, and it would be sad if the afterlife were shaking at the head of the short-term thinking of time. The concert hall is hidden away. The Norwegian Theatre the same thing. Is the Opera to be squeezed in, too? It's strange to think that when society was poorer, you had power for greater vision. From Oslo City Hall, it's great to see beyond the harbor. It's beautiful to get in the seaway. Not many decades ago this was a very poor and worn-out area, but people with visions placed the town hall right there. The area has become one of the most beautiful areas in the city. It will also be Bjørvika. The capital gets opera, but also a beautiful and visible monumental building. A new urban space can be developed. This is cultural policy of best note. Europe has, in the hundred years that we have been behind us, been plagued by wars and atrocities. But when peace came, when communities and cities were to be repatriated, it was not only strictly necessary buildings such as homes and hospitals that had priority, it also had the cultural buildings; the theater, the opera, the galleries, because it is the culture that creates civilization and community. Spending money on culture is investing in a positive social development. It's building futures. Therefore, the Workers' Party does not share the view of the Advance Party that government money should not be spent on the opera. The Progress Party would prefer not to spend public money on any kind of culture. It's not a Norwegian tradition. Nor would it be to break a conservation decision that the construction of an opera on the West Railway would mean. This is why the Workers' Party is going in to place the Opera in Bjørvika.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e284	The construction of a new opera house in Oslo is undoubtedly important for the development of opera art in Norway. The Christian People's Party hopes that the Storting now takes a positive, guiding decision in the matter. We don't intend to end up with a zero decision like last year! The Proposition of the Ministry of Culture is marked by thoroughness and shows that a proper investigation and impact assessment has been carried out of the Bjørvika alternative and the Folketater quarter in addition to the Western Railway option. The operating debate is essentially about location. The cultural policy objective of a new opera house is to disseminate high-quality opera and ballet to a wide audience, where new audiences can also be reached. A new opera house will provide opportunities for several performances and more varied setups that can reach and engage a large and wide-ranging audience. We in Norway are in the lucky situation that we have the artistic skills and will that are needed to achieve the greatest cultural effort of our time, namely the construction of a new opera house in Oslo, the capital of Norway. But our excellent opera can no longer wait for an opera decision. It is therefore important that a decision be taken today. The employees of the Opera and the opera evenings have waited long enough. Many have tried to create a contrast between national and rural culture. I will refute this. In the long term, I am convinced that it is of great importance to have a national operation to stimulate further cultural activity around our long-term country. A national operation will also need regional inspiration, commitment and talent. It must never be the case that the national opera is touring and the districts are to be consumed only. Kristiansund has mentioned several times in the debate today. And their bet at ballet school is a good example that opera can now go far beyond the «fiche» in Oslo, as some people mention it. At the ballet school in Kristiansund ballet dancers are created in the elite class, and opera is folk culture. ‘For in Kristiansund, opera has been as natural and popular for business tops and fish barons as for fishermen and fishermen,’ writes Aftenposten on 13 June 1999. The Christian People's Party has worked for and hoped that the Storting would be in favour of locating on the West Railway. Our main reason is that this option clearly appears to be the most favourable and secure location for a new opera house. We also had this position in the previous operating debate. It does not seem so far in the debate as if we will have a majority in favour of this solution. One might wish that the Progress Party could have taken its voters more seriously, at least making the opericides as low as possible in relation to the resistance they have shown. It might also be interesting if the Progress Party had taken that challenge seriously, perhaps by having a vote where the Bjørvika and the West Railway are set up against each other. The Western Railway Area will have the most secure propulsion and the lowest investment and one-off costs. We also see the opportunity to succeed from the first day with location in the Western Railway Area. The Opera will be located there in a living urban environment in the centre of Oslo. The Bjørvika option poses a high risk of delays, with strongly negative consequences for the Norwegian Opera. We also see the risk of reduced own resources in the first years of operation in Bjørvika. Because the Christian People's Party is concerned that we now need a national opera, we are nevertheless willing to vote subsidiaryly for the Bjørvika option. But we have set as a clear premise that the opera project can be carried out as an independent construction project, if necessary disconnected from other urban development, and based on a separate regulatory plan for the operating environment. In the long-term programme 1998-2001 for the government of Jagland, it was written: ‘Norway lacks a time building for opera/music theatres. The Government will therefore take on the cultural policy promise of the construction of a new opera.’ The government of Jagland did not fulfill its promises. And in a line change with Grethe Fossum earlier today, where I stated that two of the former cultural ministers of the Workers' Party said that they wanted to have a new opera lying on the West Bank, Grethe Fossum said that it was allowed to have private opinions, but that the opera cause was not dealt with either in the central government, the big group or the government. And it really reveals the real interest that the Workers' Party has had for the Opera in the time they spent with the government power. The central government promised to provide a big message on the construction of a new opera during the landfill period. We have kept that, and for the second time we come back with the matter. And today it seems that we can finally get a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e321	It's been a year since the majority of the Storting said no to build a national opera in Oslo. Fortunately, the Minister of Culture chose to interpret signals from Stortinget other than the special voting. We are pleased that the Government, in cooperation with the Oslo City Council, has clarified more issues that the Council of State in its first operaproposition seemed difficult, among other things. that the Opera can be regulated and built as an independent project in parallel with or independent of the other urban development in Bjørvika. And we can see that the Government in its proposition places emphasis on the fact that the Norwegian Opera in Bjørvika will be able to both get good working conditions and provide good opportunities for exposure as a monumental building. One can engage in various reflections on the treatment of this matter, on the media debate and on the scares of some politicians and talk to the better. However, the debate has been positive in the sense that we have not had a discussion along the line for or against the opera. On the other hand, the debate has shown a broad welcome about the desire to build a national opera. Placing the Opera in Bjørvika will be to let words follow action. The Storting’s treatment of the metropolitan notification underlined that the state had a responsibility, through the location of state buildings, to contribute to positive urban development. The principles expressed by the Stortinget in the past are also in line with modern urban development trends worldwide. In the case of investments in key institutions, it is also necessary to assess the significance and ring-fence of such an investment for society. And that's what you've been thinking in modern societies, for example. when the Pompidou Centre in Paris was built. This is how one has thought when important cultural institutions have been located in Barcelona, Bilbao, Gothenburg and Amsterdam. To say that we're going to build an opera just for the sake of the Opera is to reduce the art and the importance of culture in society. What just makes art and culture live is that it needs to be on society, that it is transcendent in the way of usual performances. An opera building in Bjørvika will just be surpassing in the sense that it will be a creative element of a social development. A new opera in Bjørvika will not only stand there as a monumental building, but will also appear as a symbol of the importance of art and culture for social development. The opera we're going to build has to stand for centuries to come. Then we have to raise our eyes and see what development potential exists in the capital, and what opportunities we can provide for a new opera. And then we'll see that Bjørvika will be able to give Oslo the best plot. It could travel on the edge of the sea like a Sydney Opera. It will be able to find its place in a new city, a district that also accommodates the city's millennial history with the Clemens Church, with the Mary Church, with the royal seat and the bishop's seat. And while it accommodates the millennial history of the city, it will accommodate urban modernity by providing space for culture, recreation, nutrition and housing. With the setting available, the Opera and urban development in Bjørvika will be able to develop as two independent projects, two projects that we are convinced will be fruitful on each other and can be implemented in parallel.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e338	At this stage, I think I'm going to add some of the notes I had made, and try to take some of the balls that are thrown up in the air here, not least because I think the last post in many ways so much. Britt Hildeng did not assume what serves the Opera, but in how the Opera should be used as an instrument in other contexts. And I think that's pretty illustrative of the thinking that's around the Bjørvika option. It is for purposes other than opera that one is primarily interested. Now I'm a strong supporter of monumental buildings, that's what I'm saying. I think, among other things, that the most important criticism that can be addressed to the Norwegian Bank's building is not that it became so expensive, but that no one can see it, but I must say that when I hear this debate and see the enormous importance that many representatives attach to building a monumental building here, I get the impression that the Opera's foremost task is not to play opera and ballet, but to build construction. I would like to remind you that the construction is just an instrument for giving good and proper performances. And with all possible respect for the Sydney Opera: it's like a building and not like the opera company it's known. There are completely different assumptions that are needed than what the construction looks like, to get to a functioning and good company. I think everyone with insight in the industry is aware of that. Yes, even the split-out concert hall, which we all agree is squeezed in, had the tremendously good function that just because it became a new building, the Oslo Philharmonic Orchestra turned into one of the world's best orchestras. It tells us that one of the most important things is to get started, get a suitable building, get out of the unsatisfactory premises that the Norwegian Opera is now in, and at the same time put the Opera in a place where people are. Everyone who's been observing an opera building wants to know that people are mostly on their way in when they're going to the theater, and they're on their way home when they're going out of the theater. But if you're going to have other traffic generated around restaurants, around shops, around spontaneous ticket sales, it's no use putting it elsewhere than where people are in advance. Therefore, the option that is now adopted becomes more expensive than necessary, it becomes a worse option than necessary, it becomes more uncertain and it will even lie in an area that will not look particularly monumental in the first time – perhaps monumental, but then because of a turbulence of roads around. It also leads to another problem. I believe that if you now put so much emphasis on this option, because it requires some road investment no matter how you turn and turn it around, it will lead to more of a contrast between Oslo and the rest of the country than what was necessary – precisely because of this. I am therefore in no doubt that the Opera is the most sovereign service to be added to the Western Railway. There it will be part of an existing, living city, and more traffic there is not to the Opera but that it is needed for it to be good enough. Now I've heard that, among other things, Grethe Fossum has hung himself in that one of the premises for the West Railway is that you should be able to take down the so-called station master building. Until then, I want to say that it has always been my opinion, long before the question of combining the exploitation of the site came up, that the Opera should not be bound by this station master building. Actually, it is peaceful, but to say what it is, a station master building without trains is not what it was. That's why I think you should be free at that point, and so I've been thinking about that for a long time, precisely because here you have a large and open space in which there can be a lot of exciting architecture. Yes, I think it'll be more than monumental enough there to satisfy most of the needs of monumental construction. Otherwise, I have been involved in a discussion with the Progress Party today on cultural policy. There's not so many seconds left to go on, but to me it's pretty important, because here's one of the dividing lines between the Right and the Advance Party. When I'm going to be careful, it's because I allowed myself, as someone remembers, to refer to Per Sandberg as a point of light in the Advancement Party when it comes to cultural policy, but I understand that he will have asked himself, so I'm going to be careful to move on to it, but there might be some of the points in it. I just think that the lack of cultural policy by the Progress Party is one of the greatest weaknesses of this party – if it is not such that they now see that their practical behaviour in the hall in the real world actually leads to the worst and most expensive being chosen. And that's a responsibility they can never get out of.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e362	New opera house is one thing I've been working on from the first day as Minister of Culture. The reason for this is simply that this is an important matter for Norway as a cultural nation. At a time when changes in society are happening rapidly and the pressure from commercial forces is only increasing, it is essential to focus on culture. Art and culture give people identity and content. Let's stop for a moment at what's happened in Norwegian music in the last decades. We have built up a system of municipal music schools that gives many children across the country an opportunity to learn how to play an instrument and to school their singing voice. It has a self-value for everyone. And when some of these kids turn out to have talent beyond the usual, we're recruiting to a music life with a wide range of genres and a variety of expressions. Norway has reason to be proud of what we have built up, among other things. within the body movement. Norwegian musicians also make themselves strongly applicable internationally. There is increasing music interest all over Norway. One of the strongest impressions in recent times is the tour of Oslo-Filharmonien in North Norway. People have gone man of houses and not protecting travel distances to hear the orchestra. There is on this day reason to remind each other that Norwegian orchestras would never get the standard they have now, if we had not built concert halls where they could develop. Now it's opera and ballet art that's going on. I'm impressed by the high standard the Norwegian Opera has in its performances. Despite the fact that opera and ballet art does not have framework conditions in Norway as it does in all other European countries it is natural to compare us with, so the Norwegian Opera is capable and enthusiastic about performing at a high international level. I'm happy to see the growing interest in music dramas and music theatres that are growing across the country in collaboration between professionals and amateurs. Did anyone talk about this being a cultural form for the few? What we are now doing by deciding that a new national opera house should be built and, on that basis, developing a national plan for opera and ballet distribution across the country, will certainly increase the quality, commitment and interest in national music drama. This will make us richer as a nation. Norway can afford this – yes, we can't afford not to. In all discussions on location, roads, construction issues, etc., this must be confirmed as the most important thing in the case of the Stortinget case today: a decision is made to build a new opera house. It's a cultural policy issue of utmost importance. That is why this is a joyous day for Norwegian cultural life. In addition to the Norwegian Opera, the Opera and Ballet Environment in Norway consists of a variety of activities: national operas, regional operas, district operas, free groups, etc. The construction of a new national opera house gives us a natural starting point for further analysis of the situation of opera and ballet in its entirety. It is therefore proposed to develop a model for opera and ballet distribution in the completion of the new opera house. Here we have a lot of value to build on. The aim must be to improve cooperation relations and the exchange of expertise in opera and ballet in Norway. Both national and local cultural policies relate to both a professional arena and an arena for voluntary cultural activity. The professional arena focuses on high artistic quality and innovation, while the voluntary arena also sees the activity and community itself as a goal. In the first group, we can among other things: place the professional opera activity, in the second we find local singing choirs, amateur theatre groups, etc. Much of the business around the country is based on cooperation between professional and voluntary forces. The goal of building a new opera house and investing in opera and ballet throughout the country must therefore be to identify good cooperation models that could stimulate artistic new developments throughout the field. So to the localization issue, which has also dominated the opera house debate this year. This year, as last year, it is the Western Railway Plot and Bjørvika it stands between, but with the difference that this time it seems that it will be possible to gather a majority for one of the alternatives. For the Ministry of Culture, from 17 June 1998, it has in fact been an overall objective to be able to relaunch the operation of the Stortinget, so that we did not get a reprisal of what happened on 16 June 1998. It could only happen that someone was willing to reconsider their position. I find that the Workers' Party and SV maintain their position from last year, without having any subsidiary instructions on how to find a solution to the unsatisfactory existence of the Norwegian Opera. I note that the right is equivalent to its western runway position from last year. The progress party goes – not surprisingly – towards everything, and thus stands outside. Those who, on the other hand, show the will and the liberality to get out of this locked situation, and thus bring on this important cultural matter, are the government parties. In fact, the principle position on the Western runway is firm – and with good reason – but the government parties are therefore willing to vote subsidiaryly, so that a decision can be taken today. With regard to the individual location options, I am pleased to say that the majority of the Committee, all except the Advance Party, very clearly rejects the Folketater quarter as possible location options. This would be a poor solution at a disproportionate cost. In the case of Bjørvika, the proposition is careful to clarify the assumptions that the Government can substantiately recommend such a location. It's just a solution where the opera house is disconnected from urban development, which can be recommended. There are two main reasons for this. The disconnected solution does not link the progress of the construction of the opera house to urban development, which makes progress more predictable. Moreover, the opera house is not economically linked to urban development. As you know, there are several unresolved issues in financing urban development, which will, of course, be seen in the long term. I am pleased that a broad majority of the Committee not only endorses the proposition's premises in its position, but in fact strengthens the premises by assuming that the project is detached from the other urban development and based on a separate regulatory plan for the operating environment, and that state regulation is used, if necessary, to ensure a good solution with sufficient progress. This gives the Ministry of Culture a good tool in the further work on the construction business. In the case of the Western Railway Area, no new findings have been made during the last year that weaken this option. That's this option that the Norwegian Opera wants, and that cultural life itself expresses their desire. I'm still sure this will be the best cultural policy option. Thus, the investigations carried out since the last operaproposition have confirmed that the Western Railway Area will have the most secure progress and the lowest investment costs. The investigations have shown no new evidence to suggest that I should reconsider my recommendation of the Western Railway Area. However, the proposition has shown how to build an opera house in Bjørvika under given conditions without excessive risk of progress. I have therefore substantially recommended such a solution, and I am pleased that the draft decision, as indicated in the suspension, specifies that the project is being carried out independently of further road and urban development and on the basis of a separate regulatory plan. If the Storting decides today that the new opera should be placed in Bjørvika, and much indicates that this will be the result, it is my belief that it will be a very good solution in the long term. Whatever – the fact that the Storting will today decide to give the country a new opera house will mean a boost to culture for which future generations will thank us. This is a forward-looking decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e393	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e396	The government parties in Stortinget will tear down the station master building on the Vestbanen. They will do so in consultation with the Minister of Culture – perhaps also with her blessing. Right Jan Petersen thinks that the station master building without trains is not worth preserving. In this case, there will be a whole new principle in terms of conservation, because then it will only be what has a function, that is conservationable. I don't think this is the opera lover Jan Petersen worthy. The goal of peace must be to take care of what was once, not because it has a benefit today. I hope that the Minister of Culture will distance himself from what Jan Petersen said about the station master's home. In 1995, the station master building was saved. It was then taken into account that maybe an opera was to be built on this plot. It might have been pretty farsighted. We will have to look at the vote today. I have heard in lines from the centre parties that the Workers' Party should have a bad story about the abolition of peaceful – and I stress peace – buildings. Then I have to ask the Minister of Culture: what history does she have to point to when it comes to the abolition of the conservation of buildings – or will this be the first Minister of Culture in history to repeal a peace decision, and what consequences will it have for the cultural memory law in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e405	I don't want to spend my time here on the History of the Workers' Party. They probably have a pretty good story, I understood on the line, in the case of peaceful buildings. I've actually checked this out, because I've got this question once earlier from Grethe G. Fossum. It is such that there is one administratively peaced building that has had to give up, and it was the old military hospital that had to be demolished when the government quarter was built in the 1950s. But I don't know if it's so important to draw that kind of parallels. I've said that the station master building should be able to give up if it's to build a monumental opera building on the West Railway. It'll give such a building better space. It'll open to the sea side. It was actually one possibility when it was about architectural competition in the previous proposition I made. That time – last year – Stortinget went against it. I note that it is now the centre parties and the right that open up for this. So it's not a majority for that, as I read the position, but I've said that in a difficult balance in such a big and important cultural matter as a new opera house is for the nation, a building from 1917 must be considered to have to give up even if it's peaceful.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e412	There is no doubting the glowing commitment of the councillor of Lahnstein to art and culture and her good will, but as the councillor she is enrolled in a political and economic reality in which, sadly, she has had to say no to what she wants to say yes to, and cut down on what she wants to adjust. Unfortunately, this is the political reality and, as Minister of Culture, she is responsible for a comprehensive cultural policy. We see that even though the Central Party likes to say that they do not want to cooperate with Carl I. Hagen and the Advance Party, they are now very concerned to say that the Advance Party is signing out. It is not acceptable for anyone to sign out. We're all here and share responsibility. Nevertheless, in this most important cultural policy case in Norway, in recent times, we see that the Council of State is flat for Carl I. Hagen, and in reality leaves to him and his party to decide where the opera should be and how much it should cost, despite the fact that the Progress Party has clearly stated that they will vote so that an opera will cost as much as possible and get the worst possible location in relation to the current alternatives. Councillor Anne Enger Lahnstein binds the government parties to open up a «Lahnstein-schlug» in Bjørvika, which has as unpredictable costs as Rome’s sport had when it was adopted, and this at a time when we know that there are other national cultural institutions that have a screaming need for money for rehabilitation and upgrading – needs that cannot be postponed for decades. I mention the National Library, the National Gallery, the old university building and churches that are falling in the head of people. The right will be involved in granting what it costs to get a top building on the west runway. We love the Opera very much. Why in the world should we choose the most expensive and the second best? That doesn't make sense to the Right. Maybe the Council of State can explain it to me?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e421	I have registered with pleasure that the Right has supported the opera bag, and that they support a new opera house. But the railing that I now heard from the Right does not match the impression that I have of a serious party trying to support the opera cause. There are many unsolved tasks — it's the National Gallery, it's the National Library, it's the Tullin Library and it's the Medieval Museum. But we've been prioritizing the Opera, because we've been working on it for a hundred years in this country, and it's time we built it in place. It's now that we have an opportunity to make a decision. As Unn Aarrestad said before, this is not the first time you've dealt with the opera question here in the hall. It has happened over and over again, and never has this big stuff been able to gather around somewhere. And what does the Right Today do? Well, they're talking nice about the opera bag, and then they're choosing to vote for what's finally going to be the result. I think that's a little disappointing commitment to the opera cause. I noticed that Stolt-Nielsen thought that maybe there shouldn't have been any new opera proposition, that we should have waited until the next big period, maybe next again. There has never been a very strong demand for people to build a new opera, but responsible cultural politicians and fiscal politicians have to take responsibility for this when we sit here, and perhaps also take some burdens. But this country deserves it. That will thank us next generations for doing. We come today in a situation where the Right will vote against building a new opera – where it will be.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e432	I want to commend the Minister of Culture for taking the ball last year and working properly on the matter, so it was possible to make a proposition that makes it possible to make a decision today. She's definitely supposed to have that rose. I have a question. When the representative from the Right introduces the word «Lahnstein-schlug» and manufactures it as if an opera in Bjørvika would become a shut-down project, I will challenge the Council of State on this: is it not that an opera in Bjørvika or on the West Railway represents under 1 pst. of the State investment during that period? So to what goes on the content and the plan that the Council of State referred to. The government has submitted a proposition containing a plan for the dissemination of the opera. I'm a little worried about what the Council of State really means. Is the omission of the words ‘production’ and ‘development’ a glitch? I assume that what is created outside Oslo will be made available to other parts of the country as well. But don't the Council of State agree that the creation and innovation of music, drama and dance outside Oslo must be developed now, and that the creative infrastructure for this to be a real boost needs to be developed now? I also want to challenge the Council of State on her view of regional operas. After all, no regional operas have been established yet. Should the establishment of regional operas wait until the opera house is finished? At all: why wait with the completion of the work with a complete plan until the completion of the opera house? Isn't that a more sensible proposal that SV has?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e443	I think that Ågot Valle and I agree on where we want to go, but that the representative from SV is somewhat more impatient. I think we're going to need the time we've spent, that this work should be clear when the opera house is finished. Each year, in the context of the budget, we have this in place as part of the budget proposal and the appropriations. We're also constantly getting to know the pressure in Stortinget to get it clearer, and to work every year on the propositions. But the connection I have got from the majority in Stortinget to the progress of the big plan that we have described in the opera house proposition, I am pleased with. With regard to the total share of public construction investments in the opera house, I think it is about. 0.6 pst. Those who put all frustrations and all unresolved tasks on an opera building have a grateful task, cf. what I said instead that there is no popular requirement. But I think this is something we can afford. We can't afford not to. It was mentioned here instead how important culture, art and cultural buildings are to a nation. In Riga, the first thing they did when they got their freedom, to build up the opera, for quite a lot of money. In the case of ‘Lahnstein-schlust’, I registered that term. I would never have recommended a subsidiary vote at Bjørvika if I didn't think it would be a good solution. I believe that there is uncertainty about that, it is also described. But I think this can be a magnificent building, of course, and I think that the premises that are now fixed also by the majority here today are premises that will hold.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e454	In my previous line, I asked the Council of State how, in view of the future, the law of cultural memory would be used when it came to other owners who were subject to strict restrictions in relation to conservation decisions, and who did not receive any compensation from the state for it. How will their applications be dealt with when they ask for rescue decisions because they will profit more from possible demolition of buildings? Won't it be a big problem for the Minister of Culture when you go to the head to do something like that yourself? Another thing is that Carl I. Hagen today at Dagsrevyen has said that he has met with sponsors who can help halve the expenses on the West Railway. It has always been known that Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party have tried to get access to sponsors who will be involved in a private financing of the opera. Would the Minister of Culture, on such a loose basis as this, be able to enter and accept private financing of the opera directly over the table in the manner suggested here? And will she trust and trust that the work the Progress Party may have done in relation to private sponsors can have an impact on the public construction of opera?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e461	I'm so pleased with the last half of Grethe Fossum's line, because I think it's almost over the top to take up the station master's building and the conservation decision when we deal with such a big and important cultural policy issue as the construction of a new opera house. I can also see the concerns and objections about the state being given the opportunity to amend a rescue decision. But I think it's manageable. So to what's been on the Day Revy today. I haven't seen the Day Revy today, so I can't really relate to that. I must say that the game we have seen from the Progress Party in this matter serves them in small honor. To the extent that one would appear to be a serious party that wants to contribute to constructive solutions, this is not an appropriate form of work, as I see it. I think that no matter how you try to push prices down on an opera building, the opera building must be state-funded, and that's a state-run opera we're talking about. No one will be able to make money, I think, at the opera house itself. Otherwise, as I said, I haven't seen the last play on this front, but I have to say that after following this debate and also seeing to me that it will be Bjørvika that is being adopted today, I think, as said, it can be a good solution in the long term. In any case, it is good that the majority who produce such a result is a majority who are genuinely committed to a national opera building and who in this way will contribute to the success of its follow-up. That's what I think is important to be told here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e470	Several have not asked for the word for a line, and the string change is thus terminated.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e473	I just have to admit that I have not been among the strongest drivers of new opera house. On the contrary, I argued at a certain time that other investments were more important. I would therefore like to stress strongly that my priority at the time did not have a background in a negative attitude towards the arts opera and ballet. When we look around in our capital, it is not difficult to see the need for public intervention in other areas. This is especially true of those who grow up in this city. But that discussion is now closed. I also have no particular sense of the attempts to make this matter a struggle between the city and the country. Today, there are flourishing opera environments across the whole country. Also, I want to start by giving the Minister of Culture credit because she so early in the process this time signaled that she would put all the prestige in terms of land selection on the shelf. It was grown-up. Especially from the Progress Party, it has been made a number that opera is not a Norwegian only start. The representative Per Sandberg has, among other things: pointed out that he found no trace of opera in Norwegian cultural heritage. It's quite possible he's right. But personally, I am sincerely pleased that we do not see traces of the cultural views of the Advancement Party in our cultural heritage. Had it been prominent, I'm afraid we hadn't had so much to enjoy today. Then we had the malls' sterile sales boxes with foreign CDs at nice price, and maybe some singing choirs in the biggest cities with 'Between hills and mountains' and some other Norwegian songs on the program, to make up a little bit. The fact that we do not have an opera tradition in Norway is the least argument against new buildings. You can also discuss when a tradition begins. I dare not think of what it would look like here on the mountain if those who walked in front of us had just concentrated on the Urnorc. I would therefore like to take a great deal of distance from the cultural egoism represented by the Progress Party. Had it only been bet on what was 100 pst. Norwegian laundromats, and what was economically profitable, would be a single large desert in large parts of Norwegian cultural life. Also in the future, we have to dry up on impulses from the outside, which can enrich our entire lives, both in everyday life and in celebration. With regard to the location, there have been large and strong words from some teams about the position of the Workers' Party. But what has the Workers' Party actually done? Well, we've chosen one of the other options the government investigated. And today we see that the government parties will also vote for our alternative, albeit subsidiary. Some of the criticisms against the Workers' Party have been that we see the construction of the opera house in conjunction with the possibilities of developing a part of the city that absolutely needs it. According to some people, this is going to be wrong. But when the big community goes to the step of investing nearly $2 billion in our capital, it would just be missing that we're not trying to see things in context. An opera house in Bjørvika can become the triggering factor this area so badly needs to move on. This large public investment will attract private investment, and then it can all be going on. It's called future-optimism. It has always been good social-democratic policy to see things in context and to take the political steps to make the whole thing what we want it to be. Failure to take account of the overall situation and not to look at the possibilities of such a large investment would be extremely small and very short-sighted. I feel convinced that the future will give the Workers' Party the right. It's about facilitating the development of our capital in a way that we as a rich cultural nation can be acquainted with, overall. Another aspect that some, strangely also the Government, seem to be de minimis is the demolition of a part of the peaceful building mass at the West Railway Station. Rightly, both the Byantikvaren and the Premature Memory Association have reacted strongly. And frankly, that's not how the state can go forward. The state, which requires individuals to take care of its old buildings – often owners don't change as much as a doormat – cannot act at their own discretion so that the big community might save money. It may not be at all the high value of the new purpose which shall determine the duration of a protection decision. Then we're really going to run. Many would rightly claim that there are many equally high - ranking purposes that operate both in Oslo and elsewhere. Everyone who believes that cultural protection is important should be afraid of the precedent of a demolition decision in this context. There will undoubtedly be a bomb under cultural memory protection, as the Byantikvaret has said. Finally, I personally agree with Jan Petersen in describing a new opera house, that functionality and content are most important – the monumental must be subordinate. It's just that the right in the committee repeatedly stresses the importance of the building becoming a monumental building and has put it in as an important premise.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e493	Well, I think it's possible to combine the functional and the monumental. You've done that before. You might want to trust architects that way. My reason for being a strong supporter of the West Railway as a location is that I think it's liberating for once to be able to adopt a cultural project for reasons. I think it's good to have more thoughts in my head at the same time, but I'm sorry that we do something every time we do something, at the same time we're going to do something else. Couldn't we even build an aerodrome for the sake of air passengers and an opera for the sake of those who are going to use it, and not justify the aerodrome that it should be located in a place where nothing else lies, because then, since the area you leave is so central, to develop a growth center there? It's a parallel right over here. I think Bjørvika can once become a part of the city I want to thrive in. I was born and raised myself in Old Town. It's not exactly Bjørvika, but I know it's possible to rehabilitate old town areas and create new ones in Oslo. But I also know that it takes time. It takes much more time than all planners have ever thought. And it takes more time than all the big politicians have ever believed. It's historically proven. Efforts have been made to develop, among others: The Kristiania quarter – 20 years since it began – into a living urban environment, among others. by locating cultural institutions there. There's a piece left, there's a good piece left. I react to using the Opera as something to create a part of the city – and then it won't be so dangerous if it stays there alone for 20 years, or if people are going to use it or if it's going to be a desert island. Then they say that there are many property investors who are interested in building large office buildings there. But, dear... excuse me, President, I suppose you can't use expressions like ‘Dear Friend’ from a pulpit, but I was just saying it. It is clear that any city has to expand – unless it's pure stagnation, and you don't want to – and get a lot of people to invest in office buildings. It's the smallest art of the world. But creating a urban environment or -- I'm going to use another expression -- creating a cultural topography is something else. Cultural institutions fertilise each other and depend on each other. They are often in clusters – cinemas, private and public galleries, theatres, opera houses and concert halls. In all cities they do. And Oslo is a very small city in this context. The opera is perhaps the institution that most of all needs to be fertilized by a living urban environment and a living cultural environment where you can 'by-by-by-by' a little bit, and where not only subscribers find out through narrow loopholes and times. The subscribers always find out. With all due respect for the opera lovers – even I am a normal user and not an opera master or fanatic, even if it is a positive concept – you have to reach a wider audience. Therefore, localisation is also important. Finally, I am dismayed at the Advancement Party. Not that they don't have any cultural policies, I've been used to them, but that sometimes they have some kind of policy in this area – especially when the representative of the Progress Party, on questions from Jan Petersen about how he would define the self-value of culture, said that culture is not something politicians can adopt. But kept, it's not that we're going to adopt the opera tonight. Opera culture exists no matter what we do here – fortunately. I also find it strange that a party like the Progress Party, which also calls itself nationally and internationally orientated at times, believes that Norway should be the only country in Western culture that does not prioritize building its own opera house. Looking at nations that are much younger than ours, former communist states, for example, one of the first things they do is to build their own cultural institutions. And that happens with the support of very nationally oriented parties. It's strange that the Progress Party doesn't get along with any of this. Cultural hostility is not necessarily a special feature of right-wing parties, if you look around Europe. But then you have to look around a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e510	Hopefully we will have an opera decision today, if not the representative of the Christian People's Party Lånke has another joke in his sleeve. He has now gone all round with the Advance Party and given it invitations by proposing more commercialisation and converting a peace decision. In contrast to what Per-Kristian Foss said about the Progress Party, I feel that it is actually the Christian People's Party and the representative Loans who have had a multilateral agenda in this matter. And as we could also hear in his main post earlier today, he has not yet given up the hope that Carl. I. Hagen's party turns. I assume that Loans with great interest have looked at the Dagsrevyen. At the same time, the representative Lånke also gave the best view of how bad the Bjørvika alternative is, which is contrary to what appears among a majority of the elected people, including the Christian People's Party, in Oslo. It is also contrary to the evidence provided by the Minister of Culture, who has now done an affordable job with the different options – which was not done last time, unfortunately. What was presented at the previous opera debate as a little culturally friendly and as tactic by the Workers' Party is quite fine with the Christian People's Party representative Lånke. At that time, they were the ones who meant to know that Carl. I. Hagen’s party would fall on Bjørvika, and then it was not good with any support from that party. But then, as now, the Progress Party actually stood at its point of view, so right there I won't criticize them. However, I hope that the debate that has taken place since then has fully demonstrated that the Workers' Party is taking both opera and cultural policy seriously. We choose to go in for what we think is right. We hope that all the good forces that want an opera will work together to realize an opera and ballet house that will accommodate art and inspiring employment for employees, but that can also be an inspiration for those who work with district operas. Only those who do not want an opera are now served that the matter is sent out on a new desert hike. The working party has always held on to Bjørvika, despite incredibly great resistance. An opera must serve its art start, its artists, its cultural workers and its audience, but not in a vacuum. The localisation will have consequences for more wherever it is located. We politicians must also take that into account, and therefore also take other considerations into account in the assessments. Opera is not a matter for itself. It is up to all those involved in the realization of the Opera architecturally and structurally, and not least in terms of content, to ensure that the Opera becomes both innovative and experimental. With a view to the sea and a lot of light – yes. We know that the evening sun disappears last in Bjørvika, and the light we are actually very dependent on here in the north – can Bjørvika give Norway a grand cultural building and without tearing a peaceful building, provide a complete solution. It's at the same time cultural planning, because the Concert Hall and the Norwegian Theatre are trapped and have no room. The rest of Europe can point to more examples where we think of it as much as we do with the Bjørvika option. In the past, there was also a lot of trouble about the Sydney opera, but it's muted now. I have not yet understood what is wrong with the fact that Norway is also thinking so much. Of course, there will be developments in the area around, but a possible opera decision here tonight is of course on an independent basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e525	Let me start by giving commendation to the Minister of Culture, commendation for being generous and for having put the prestige aside, praise for having a genuine willingness to get an opera decision and to get a forward-looking opera. You can't say that in return about the Progress Party, and I want to go so far as to say that the position taken by the Progress Party in the opera act is an insult to the Norwegian people. Culture is an important part of our well-being, and a time-real opera is part of our cultural offer. For what is an opera? What kind of offers are we talking about? Well, we're talking about ballet, dance, operas, classic opera performances and rock operas, about an offer to young talents, to composers, musicians, dancers, actors to have a center where they can develop their art. We're talking about an opera environment that's also going to be a cultural agent out to the whole country. The Progress Party has yet to master the issue of care for the elderly, as if it were a contrast to working with cultural policy. Does the Advancement Party believe that older people only need a bed and daily bread? Our very healthy pensioners are increasingly streaming to cultural services, exhibitions and other leisure activities. But you can't wait any more of politicians who want to make the National Theatre a bingo hall, and who consistently go against government grants to music schools, corps and jazz festivals? But let me repeat the question I asked last year in the corresponding debate to Siv Jensen. Has the Progress Party never seen the zeal of the small roles that start at the municipal music school? Have they never seen the little customs that tie ballet shoes when they start ballet school? Or kids singing in choirs, playing in music orp's May 17th? What about the kids in the music nursery? Is this top class? Nevertheless, the Right has the strangest argument. The argument against adding the opera to Bjørvika is that it will be isolated from other cultural offerings in the capital. It at best testifies to ignorance, as in Trond Helleland, or is a substitute argument, as in Per-Christian Foss. In the Bjørvika and Sørenga area lies the Nordic's largest continuous, preserved medieval cultural memories, ruins with exciting and visible remains of the power struggle between state and church, the two centres of power of the Middle Ages. Here lies the patron saint St. Hallvard, the lord of Lier who was killed when he protected a refugee pregnant woman from her persecutors. Here's the Church of Clement and the Church of Mary, and the beginning of the Medieval Museum is not just a museum of excavated objects. The entire district will eventually become a historical exhibition of centuries of craftsmanship, urban development, living conditions and culture, an illustration of Oslo's identity and a great deal of Norway's history. In Bjørvika stood the cradle of culture. We're going to build an opera for generations to come. Gradually, it will be followed by an enlarged Oslo Medieval Museum, the Oldsak Collection and other university museums planning to move here. Private stakeholders are ready to build an aquarium. Let's create a broad cultural policy enthusiasm for an opera house in the Middle Ages of Oslo and Norway, a multipurpose house that can accommodate several forms of culture and music, which can be an offer to those who started in singing choirs, in corps, in music schools or dance ballets. Let's also create a center of opera and opera communication to the whole country. Bjørvika is already Norway's main port today. Here comes the Fly train, and here comes the tourists the sea route. A great monumental opera building out to the sea side will be one of the eye-catchers we need, and will be significantly better cultural policy than hugging an opera behind the insurance buildings at Aker Brygge. The fact that the opera will also be one measure among several to open the eastern edge towards the sea strengthens Bjørvika as a choice. Our social-democratic society has a long tradition of taking more account of the establishment of large institutions. Using investments of around NOK 2 billion to help urban or district development is not the only thing that does. It's just taking a look around the world.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e546	It's never nice to be accused of ignorance. When it comes from the representative Nybakk, who claimed that the country's cultural cradle was in Bjørvika, I have to pull a little bit on the smileband. I've been in that area many times. I've actually grown up on the east edge of Oslo, so I know the area pretty well. I have a great sense of plans for a medieval museum, to say that, but when we're talking about a cultural institution like the Opera, we're talking about an institution that needs accessibility, with opportunities for the audience to visit it, and with a favorable location in relation to, for example, National Theatre, Concert Hall and other cultural institutions. That's the main reason why the Right actually chooses to go in for the West Railway option. Unlike many others, we have not wavered in this matter. We have stood firm on the same alternative all the way, unlike the Workers' Party, how random cultural ministers who have obviously only had a personal opinion, who have never been treated in the party. It says a little about the Workers' Party's handling of this matter that both Kleveland and Birkeland's clear position on the West Railway was never raised to debate internally in the Workers' Party, as Grethe G. Fossum confirmed earlier today. Then I want to take a little hold of the Minister of Culture, who is attacking the Right so that the Right today does not vote for the Bjørvika. The reason why it's really pretty easy to find. If you look at page 30 of the vote and the majority remarks that all parties, except the Advancement Party, agree to, I think that there is a good explanation. It says: ‘The majority notes that the total cost of the road conversion in Bjørvika following the solution recommended by the Statens Vegvesen and other urban development measures together are estimated at 2,300 million. kroner, but with a cost range of 2 to 100 million. $2,800 million. krones. The cost of the opera house itself is set at 1,800 million. The majority further indicates that urban development in Bjørvika will be a very demanding process that will lead to considerable uncertainty both in terms of progress, costs and funding. This is linked to the size of the area, to the specific basic conditions, to the necessary conversion of comprehensive traffic systems, and not least to the fact that many and different interests are involved. The rate of expansion will also largely depend on the demand for the property market.» I think it's a pretty strong comment – not too right to write, but this is a comment that the government parties, the Workers' Party and SV are joining. We're actually serious when we say that a cultural institution like the Opera needs to get off to a good start, and there's little evidence that this cultural institution is getting off to a good start with the scheme that's now outlined. I feel that the Minister of Culture's attack on the Right is also an attack on his own government partners. They or we – I would say – have worked evenly and hard and purposefully to achieve the primary objectives of the Minister of Culture, namely an opera on the Western Railway. That's where the energy has been used, that's where the job has been done, but unfortunately it doesn't succeed, and at least it shouldn't be right to blame. A little less than a year ago, in this Chamber, we held a debate on opera — Act 1. Now we've reached Act 2. Then we'll see if this is the final, or if new afts have to be added before carpeting and applause. We have argued for an opera on the West Railway. The fourth year's debate went into nothing, and now it's Bjørvika that seems to be adopted. It's not any Bjørvika variant we're going to adopt today. It is a Bjørvika light opera, an opera located in a traffic machine, which is to be converted gradually into a construction site when urban development is started in the area. On the right, this option is so uncertain in terms of cost and progress that we cannot vote in favour of the option. It must be a cross-thinking that last year, those who justified the Bjørvika opera with large-scale urban development, this year, thank you for a solution without urban development. I personally believe that the fight for road millions – not to say road billions – and large government investments will start as soon as the matter is decided tonight. The Western Path option is more reasonable, safer and obviously the alternative cultural life, District Norway and the public want. It is therefore almost incredible that Bjørvika can be adopted. I have a feeling that today we are making a decision for which there is in no way a majority in this Chamber. But it is a decision dictated by the vote to the Workers' Party last year, which the Minister of Culture and the Government has now met by saying already when they presented the proposition that they would vote in favour of subsidiary. It has locked this case, and the solution will not be happy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e572	I must admit that the involvement of some of the representatives of the centre parties in this matter has fascinated me. I thought for a long time that it had its origins in a real emotional commitment to strengthening cultural life. But after the central parties have revealed the cultural vandalism they are willing to engage in to get through their vision, I have concluded that here there must be other motives on which I have not been able to get hold of. When, in addition, the Centre, in order to free itself from the Advance Party, chooses to deviate from all previous principles of the opera building, it seems even more strange. In addition, it is a relatively simple calculation to show that it is more profitable for the country to involve private stakeholders in Bjørvika than to use the Western Railway option. Over the course of a year, government parties have gone from following the Cultural Memory Act to breaking it. When the reason is that a new, nice building is to be built, I know about many other landowners in this country who could use the same reason. In agriculture, for example: many people experience that there are strong restrictions on operation and new construction because we have seen the value of taking care of the cultural heritage and made it difficult for us to make a law in this area. That's why, no matter what kind of decision we end up with today, there's a dangerous signal center sending out. Unfortunately, I also registered that the Council of State was dangerously close by giving the exact same signal. If the purpose is only good enough, the Cultural Memory Act can be broken. When we know that the idea is to get space for more business buildings, that rationale can be used absolutely everywhere. The fact that the Minister for the Environment continues to keep his mouth shut in this matter is absolutely incredible. It will be the first time that the Stortinge will review a rescue decision. There are different classifications that provide the basis for our relationship with valuable buildings, and conservation is the strongest of them. This is the first time that peace can be lifted, based on commercial interests and economic considerations, and at the initiative of the centre parties. That the Right Leader uses as an argument to over-test the rescue decision that trains no longer go there, I guess only underscores my point. There are very many peaceful poultry around the country that cannot be used for cows. Only start tearing must be the attitude, if it is not that the Right has found that the State is to be treated differently from private owners. In this matter, both from the Progress Party and some of the party leaders of the Center Party and some right-wing representatives, we have tried to set up today's edifice building against the interests of the districts. I think it is first and foremost revealing to them their own attitude towards cultural life, because the alternative to today's decision is actually not to spend more money on culture in the districts, the alternative is not to spend money on culture. That there is a connection between today's decisions and the ability to develop this art form in the rest of the country, is obvious to most, perhaps primarily those who work with this in the districts and in the other big cities. This presupposes a start to a bet on regional and local opera and music theatre environments around the country. There was a discussion we largely took last year, also the debate on making the Opera more accessible, more open, and I do not need to repeat my disappointment from last year about the particular attitude of the centre parties in this context. But I expect that we will have the opportunity to discuss this further when the process of building has come further. We are today invited to take a building decision. Therefore, it is also a little strange when some call for a broader debate. The working party tried to invite this last year without getting any response at the time from those who today are asking for it. But for those who still miss this, I can recommend my post from last year – of course unscathed. The right-hand leader, Jan Petersen, tried to make a point that some would have built the opera out of completely different reasons than that we need an opera building. Yes, it can be that way when you only participate in a small part of the debate. There are actually some of us who are able to have multiple thoughts in their heads at the same time, although it's obviously a little difficult for the Right Leader.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e596	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e599	I take the floor this evening simply because I want to say that I am happy that we are probably getting a positive decision on the construction of an opera tonight, because Norway needs an opera. I am of those who have been saddened that the operating bat has drowned in urban development and road solutions. It's clear we're going to have a magnificent building, but I think the opera batten should have been more concerned with the contents of the building. Norwegian music life needs to bet on opera through an opera and ballet house, simply because it will make the art more visible in Norway. It helps local singers get something to go after. They can dream of a professional career, or at least of singing in the opera building. A strong opera environment in Oslo will also strengthen the opera and song environments throughout the country. We know that it is an inspiration for many local festivals to pick up vocal forces from the Opera. Several claim that opera is just a start for snobber – and even receives subsidies – and therefore we do not need to build an opera house. The Party of Advancement expresses such an attitude. I experience such an argument as the expression of cultural noggregation that borders on that arrogance. It's an attempt to set art up against each other and ignore the fact that the arts complement each other. Norwegian cultural life needs an opera essay, which a new building will be. I just have one small concern: building in Bjørvika is, in my opinion, a risk project. I'm afraid we're going to spend extra money in Bjørvika that could have benefited Norwegian cultural life better. I am convinced that the Western Railway is a better alternative. Now, however, the Progress Party must no longer be allowed to set the agenda. Now we have to unite in our work to strengthen the opera environment through a modern building in Oslo. That's what the whole of Culture Norway is going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e610	At the same time, the Storting subsidizes the opera ticket and covers their luxury needs at over DKK 1 000 per year. Ticket, hearing-impaired persons must pay a proportion for hearing aids. So crazy are the priorities of the bulk of the population – always for the benefit of the resource-powerful, who shout and scream the highest. And now we're going to build a new prestige building in Oslo for almost $2 billion. 'Norway needs an opera,' said the previous speaker. Yes, but keep us well, Oslo already has an opera – there is a party there tonight, I saw it myself on TV – an opera that could have been rusted up for a much lower amount. Of course, 2 billion kroner could be used for new police outing cars and helped make Norway a safer country to live in for all of us, and we could buy quite a lot of equipment for our hospitals. But the majority have spoken. For the majority, it is more important to meet the luxury needs of a minority of the population in Oslo and its surroundings. For the voters in my own constituency, it's almost as cheap to take a cheap trip to London to look at an opera performance as traveling on a trip-return Oslo. They don't need any prestige building in Oslo. I am also convinced that the vast majority of Oslo residents would prefer surgical equipment to an opera building. Of course, the progress party will vote against a new opera building, regardless of where the Oslo building is to be located. I have seen that there has been a strange argument in some newspapers, and from the case rapporteur, who claims that the Progress Party is responsible for the fact that a large majority, which we are not in, will vote for an opera where it becomes the most expensive. That's a completely unreasonable argument. Yes, it has been many years since I have heard a more frequent accusation against the Advancement Party than the one I heard today from the case rapporteur. There is no one who forces any party to vote for an opera in Bjørvika if it is not decided to build an opera on the West Railway Site. If the Christian People's Party and the Center Party choose to do so, then the Christian People's Party and the Center Party must also take responsibility for their own voting. And if Lånke believes that this location of the opera in Bjørvika has as many disadvantages as he expressed in his post, he gets a vote against. Of course, the Progress Party has no responsibility for decisions against which the Progress Party is voting. Responsibility for the construction of an opera building on a dock area in Oslo, surrounded by Norway's largest traffic machine, must be borne by the parties to vote for the opera building to be located right there. They must, of course, also take responsibility for the fact that, in practice, it will generate large costs associated with the demolition of a well-functioning road machinery and the construction of completely new road systems. The party of progress is acting as a clean party today: we are voting against what we are against, and for what we are in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e627	The title of today's main theme might as well have been a new opera house: What should the child's name be? Because that's what it's all about: the West Railway or the Bjørvika. NOK 1.6 billion against SEK 1.8 billion, one year of construction from or to, someone who gets satisfied, others less satisfied. Or could the title be something else? Could it be that we politicians say to the population that now we have approx. 2 000 million. kr, – for that figure is probably closer to the final sum, in the opinion of the Progress Party, than to the original ones – for which we do not know what to use? The answers we would have received from all the municipalities in the country would probably be somewhat different. But everyone would have yelled for money to the nursing home, homes, schools, school equipment, roads, transportation in general, safe jobs, money to strengthen the police, soldiers and customs, strengthen District Norway, money for local cultural events, such as school music, Speederen, amathørvyer etc. etc., or the organisation of new jobs, mostly in the districts. This list would be endless, not because Norway is an impossible country to live in, but it is lacking in many sectors. Is it right to spend so much money on a project that only a small part of Norway's population spends in their lives? We're going to have a new opera regardless of location, says the Minister of Culture. The most important thing is to get a new opera, says the followers of this use of taxpayers' money. A cultural nation that Norway needs to have a new opera is said. Does Norway really have traditions on opera, so we have to have it? - Doubtful. And here the Progress Party is criticized for being culturally hostile. Nor does the Party wish to measure the cultural or cultural interest or quality of a party or person on how much money the individual has or can afford to spend. The party of progress has never said that we are opposed to opera or opera construction. On the other hand, the Progress Party has said that we are opposed to the construction of new opera, where the funding comes from the public, that is. the taxpayers. An opera built for private funds is absolutely okay. What people spend their money and their time for, politicians shouldn't rule as long as it doesn't go out on others. Everyone should pay for their hobbies or interests as much as possible of his own pocket. It is also this Progress Party has been working on this matter for a long time. The Progress Party has been positive in getting private investors on the track to reduce public costs to NOK 0. And the Progress Party has been far on the way to contributing to a sharp reduction in the price of the Western Path option, and with even more effort and goodwill from the other parties in the future, it might come down to an acceptable level. The same applies to the Bjørvika option. Or maybe we should bet on something as exciting as an opera ship or a reverse pyramid out in the Oslo Earth? The last thing would then certainly be a building that would attract attention both in Norway and elsewhere in the world, and it would have fulfilled the wish for a building that would attract attention for at least a hundred years. Otherwise, I have noticed that the Minister of Culture has confirmed several times today that a new opera building is not a strong requirement for people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e650	I'm pretty impressed with what the Progress Party can do using 0.6 pst. of the State investment for the entire period to come. If you don't build an opera for government money, then there's no limit to what kind of tasks you can solve. I record the heroic and populist struggle of the Progress Party against the opera project. And then Jan Simonsen says that the proportion of hearing aids has increased, while we're subsidizing those who go to the Opera. What did the Progress Party do last year when they really had their hands on the wheel and could manage the budget? The result was that the excess was increased. Then we can talk about priorities. I would like to discuss the use of 12 billion Community crowns for frigates. I would like to agree to discuss IT Fornebu, which after the model of the Progress Party costs four opera houses. The Progress Party has a rather amazing cultural vision, if they have anything at all. The argument is that the Opera is for the fift. But if you look at the flourishing interest, this argument gets swept aside. In my post I referred to the evening post on Sunday, where we could read about the taxi driver who participated with life and lust in the opera. Opera is for ordinary people. The party of progress is opposed to the subsidisation of art. It means that it doesn't become available to ordinary people with general incomes. Why should general employees be deprived of the possibility of going to the opera? I would like an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e664	What is quite clear is that the availability of the new opera in Bjørvika is at least not for the most people. - Then I've been told. What really made me take the floor was my associate Arne Lyngstad, who had an post where he made it clear that he was quite happy now that there was going to be an opera in Bjørvika. And on the same occasion, he performs to say that the Progress Party acts arrogantly in relation to subsidies. I will strike back. It is an arrogance without equal by the representative Lyngstad to overlook all the subsidies that adults receive in this country. To think about the specifics of the opera, we know that there are the rich people in their 45 - 66 years of age who go. They have the highest education and the highest income. Those who go into the new opera, if any, if it becomes a decision for Bjørvika, will be subsidized their cultural interest by NOK 1500 each time they enter that opera, and it has the representative Arne Lyngstad from the Christian People's Party good conscience for it. There we see how far we have come. On the other hand, we can talk about youth and their interests, which have to save and spin for months to get an experience within pop, rock or the like. I even had my son and several comrades from Trøndelag visiting here in Oslo three weeks ago. They paid the entire experience themselves, while adults, up-and-coming people with high incomes, should be subsidized at this level. A cinema ticket today costs 50 kroner. If it had been subsidized as much as an opera ticket is today, it would have cost $8. With the new opera it would have cost $4 with the same subsidies. Today, a ticket to a pop concert costs an estimated NOK 230. If it had received the same subsidies as an opera ticket, it would have cost 37 kroner. I could have continued on this rule all over the place and whether it concerns the general people, whom the representative Valle was occupied with instead, which we're going to reach. But they have to pay all their cultural experiences of their own savings and hard-earned money. It's arrogant of the Norwegian big thing that we're not somehow trying to realize that adults can pay for their own experiences. When we also know that there might be an estimated 200,000 visitors in the Opera and the average visit might be 3.5 per. person, it's clear evidence that we're talking about a narrow cultural group here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e677	I thought most things were said now, but it was before the Progress Party started to knock out the hair – I had almost said. I'm a raw populist, said Jan Simonsen as he entered the cultural committee. He has continued to be a raw populist, and he has behaved his successors in the cultural committee in line with that. But I, as a hearing aid user, would have strongly asked me to be dragged in as an argument for the populism of the Advance Party. The proportion of a hearing aid is below the price of an opera ticket. I think there are many hearing aids users who are very happy that the hearing aids give them a slightly better opportunity to enjoy the experience of being in an opera. Since we're first going to talk about hearing impaired people, I can tell the representative Simonsen that for a hearing impairment, it's being in the Opera – and taking in the music, the dance, the colors, the movement, the whole mood – a brilliant, great experience that can't be replaced by TV, CDs or anything else. If there's someone who needs to be able to visit the Opera, and if the Opera's tickets are at a cost level that makes an opera experience available to normal people with normal income, it's hearing-impaired. So do not use hearing impaired in your populist profiling against cultural bets in Norway! I think you'll get the entire Norway hearing-impaired group against you.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e688	The President has some doubts as to whether the characteristics of another representative in this case were correct, but since reference is made to the representative's own characteristics, it may pass.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e691	I am pleased that we finally arrived at the time when a decision was to be made on the construction of an opera. That's why I think it's a bit rude of the Right to claim that the Workers' Party has waved back and forth in this matter, and then I think of the Workers' Party as a party. It's actually the way that we, on the same line as the Right, we've decided, but for Bjørvika. They've decided on the West Railway, and we've stuck to our decision. When it comes to winging, I've experienced the right from a slightly different side. Last year there was no mention of the suspension of peace. The station building had to be protected for what it was worth, both by the Right and the Center parties. But when the parliamentary leader of the Right goes out today and says that peace of the station building on the West Railway would only happen if trains had gone there, that it was functional, I take it as a shift of the Right in the field of cultural memory protection. The right has also thought that they can predict and see into the brain, heart and kidneys of the representatives. They've all talked us up and found out that really there's a majority in this room for the West Course. That will probably resolve a vote, and I hope the representative of the Right is wrong. I think it's good to know that we have a Minister of Culture who is obviously distanced from the use of private funds to the opera itself. I want to quote what she answered me in a reply: ‘I must say that the game we have seen from the Progress Party in this matter serves them in small honor. To the extent that one would appear to be a serious party that wants to contribute to constructive solutions, this is not an appropriate form of work, as I see it. I think that no matter how you try to push prices down on an opera building, the opera building must be state-funded, and that's a state-run opera we're talking about. There is no one who will be able to make money, I believe, in the opera house itself." I think it is good to hear that a Minister of Culture is so far away from the idea of privatization with which the Progress Party operates. There have also been rumors that the Progress Party wants to change the voting order so that they will vote on the vote first, and on the proposal on the West Railway afterwards. I can assure you that the Labour Party cannot vote subsidiaryly for the Western Railway. If such a voting order were to come up as part of the vote here in Stortinget, I would like to say that it must come from the fact that the Progress Party will change its position on this matter and vote for the West Railway, and I think there must be clear assurances from the government parties to accept such a voting order.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e711	I think it is natural at the end of this debate to thank for what has at least been a cultural debate for periods of time. It should be. We've probably witnessed an unworthy game from a party that doesn't want to vote for anything here, and has said absolutely crystal clear that they won't spend public money on the opera, but we'll have to put that aside. The vast majority in this Chamber are in favour of building a new opera house, and we are also pleased that we have finally reached the point where we can reach a decision. Then there's discussion about the choice of places, and that's not so weird. I have not concealed that I believe that the Western Railway will provide the best result, it is safest both in terms of progress and economics, and also in terms of cultural policy. But it seems that the majority is moving towards taking decisions for Bjørvika, and when I recommended it subsidiaryly, it was because I think it could be a very good solution in the long term. But it's a demanding project. I therefore think it is also important to stress the importance of the fact that those who are behind a possible decision on Bjørvika, all of which are linked to lots that want an opera building, also follow this up in a way that allows us to lift in flocks. Taking responsibility for the follow-up of this should at least be done by the Ministry of Culture. We're going to launch a progress plan immediately so that we can show that when the Stortinget makes a decision on a locational choice for this important cultural project, we're going to follow it up. Actually, this is a happy day for Norwegian cultural life. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Norwegian Opera, which at last appears to be getting better working conditions, and which can contribute to this art form – opera, song, music and dance – being lifted not only in the Oslo area in the form of a national new opera effort, but throughout the country. That's what I think is good for the cultural nation of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e720	It's a broad majority to build the opera. When a total increase – except for the Progress Party – says yes, it is because we want to find a solution for actors and for the audience. That's why we built the opera. But it's not forbidden to have two thoughts in your head at once, yes, three thoughts too, if there's room. The opera is primarily about what's going to happen inside the walls, but an opera house can also be like a building, like an architectural monument, something we'll notice, and we haven't had any trouble with it in this city. Next week, I'm going down to Strasbourg to meet the Council of Europe. Then I – with no reservation – come to take an outdoor pill at Place de la Cathédrale. And above the dewy fur glass, I'm going to admire the cathedral, which I've done before during my stay in Strasbourg. I'm not a permanent visitor to church houses, but that cathedral is a fantastic building. And such constructions shall have rooms; they shall have air. The cathedral in Strasbourg should have had more air than it has. The Opera is a construction that, in addition to becoming a good workplace and a good place for the audience, must have air and space. It shall be visible and shall not lie between high houses in the Vika. Now, tonight's decisions are not to be linked to urban development in Bjørvika, but it goes without saying that we who want the Opera there initially are positive to prioritize urban development in Bjørvika. That the Right is so imaginative that they see no alternatives other than a cave where the Opera can lie, or alternatively millionaire homes, I think I'm a little visionary. What is sad is the majority's inability to give priority. There is a strong response to centralisation and investment in this country, with good reason. But it's not the Opera that's the problem, nor the urban development. IT-Fornebu with 20 000 – 30 000 jobs and huge road and rail investments that go well beyond Bjørvika is a much larger problem. And those jobs can be located anywhere, but the Norwegian Opera should be located in Oslo. And then I have to move a little northward towards the end of the post. It's about opera being for the small segment of interested people. In my hometown, the ironworks town of Mo in Rana, there is an opera arrangement every two years. It's always approx. 2,000 people watching these performances. Then there are soloists from the Norwegian Opera, and then they've worked locally with choirs and orchestras. People jump from the exercises to go to night shifts, and put on their helmets and protective boots. I would refuse to believe that a few years ago, but that's actually the way it is. It's an experience that captures the entire community. It's a culture not just for the fig, because we don't have that much fig in Rana.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e735	First to the representative Stolt-Nielsen – I am also impressed that she has managed to hide a newspaper interview with those who signed it in 1989, and would like to ask for a copy of it, because I think I have lost it. The representative, Stolt-Nielsen, suggested that people with severe hearing impairment would rather have an opera ticket than a hearing aid. I was present during a debate in the Norwegian Federation of Deaf as late as Saturday and presented this very argument, and I can assure Proud-Nielsen that I was far from being peeped out. So in the case of hearing aids, the Progress Party, together with the Socialist Left Party, proposed to define these as technical aids for disabled people who are excluded from the phenomenon. So we voted against prob lems on hearing aids, but we did not get other parties with us – and that's not so strange, as they spend the money. The problem with subsidising opera tickets is that subsidies go to everyone – not only students or pensioners or other cash-laundering agents, but also to people with normal incomes, and to resource-intensive people with millions of income. And what's subsidized is our hobbies and our entertainment offerings. Figuratively, it works so that Minister of Culture Enger Lahnstein stands outside the Opera, dressed as the Christmas event with beards, and with a large bag of money. And when Director Smoke or other directors come by with their wives, the Minister of Culture bends deeply and says be so good, ma'am, here you have your thousand-pocket for tonight's performance. But there's no minister of culture who stands disguised as the Christmas event outside of Oslo Spectrum when the youth goes to rock concert, and says be so good, here you have the thousand-pocket, or five hundred-pocket, to the Hyperstate performance today. This is a subsidisation of the entertainment services of ordinary people, for which I think people have to pay for themselves – and they can afford it if they receive less taxes and taxes, which they will of course get through the policy of the Progress Party. The representative, Ågot Valle, was impressed by the amount of $2 billion spent. Yeah, it's actually like $2 billion is a lot of money and can solve a lot of problems. I myself, as a spokesman for the Judicial Affairs of the Advance Party, to receive a little extra funding of 50 million. NOK to solve an emergency problem for the police, who could not move out after 8 p.m. 4 in the afternoon because there was a crisis in the operating budgets. It was impossible to do. It was completely impossible, because there was no money. But now there is money for a giant performance building in Oslo, which will trigger significant means in the future, not to talk about significant means of operation and substantial subsidisation of healthy people’s entertainment services.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e750	As for the representative Simonsen and his claim that there are no state subsidies to the coat, I think he's going to get involved in the next case on the map, which is just about state subsidies to rock. The operating debate is going to end this time. I do not intend to undertake the task of characterising this debate, but I agree with the Council of State that there has been a cultural debate. The main emphasis has been on the choice of location – which is natural and to which it has been put – but there have also been many other important aspects of the development of opera and ballet art. And there is no doubt that the construction of a new national opera will mean a new gift and open up completely new opportunities for expanding the opera and ballet service in the rest of the country. The majority of the Committee also agreed with the Government that a model for opera and ballet distribution across the country should be developed in parallel with the construction of a new opera house. Then the Workers' Party's Grethe Fossum and several of the Workers' Party's representatives have dedicated their contributions to the comments of the Centre Parties and the Right to reconsider the Peace Decision with regard to the Station Master's Building on the West Railway. It is claimed that the only reason for this is to free the area of private investment. But this is wrong. That's not the only reason, that's one reason. Also in the setting, this is underlined, and I quote: ‘In the opinion of these members, there may hardly be any extension purposes other than an opera house to justify the demolition of the station master building and thereby trigger this economic gain. At the same time, this will also allow for better exposure of the opera house as a monumental building.» And if you read our comments further, you'll see that the Centre Parties and the Right have been deeply concerned with the monumentality of the opera building and its function as a signal building, not least related to a Peace Prize Centre. When the government last year, in the first opera proposition, opened for the demolition of the station master building, it was just to open the façade more, in order to better mark a monumental expression. I can't see it any other way than that the noise level Grethe Fossum and other representatives of the Workers' Party are contributing here, is an expression of nothing but a subduing cause to weaken the Western Railway option and to pave the way for Bjørvika. And then finally to the representative Grete Knudsen, who claims that it is a signed and Christian People's Party, and not the Progress Party, who has a double agenda in this matter. To this I would just say that the Christian People's Party, together with the other two central parties, has tried to have a realistic approach to this problem of locating by facilitating the possibilities of getting the Opera to the Western Railway, and at the same time taking the consequence that this is not adopted, by going substitutively for the second option, Bjørvika. We are therefore also involved in ensuring that an opera house is built. That's what's important. And again, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Norwegian Opera on the fact that a decision is being taken today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e768	The next speaker is Per Sandberg. Per Sandberg has had the word twice, and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e771	One minute is too little to sum up, but there are two things I would like to say at the end of the debate. It was primarily for the Council of State that claimed that the Progress Party has played an ‘incalculable game’ in this matter. I'd say that's a blatant claim. In that case, the Council of State could not have followed the process. The progressing party came to an end when the proposition was presented, and the government parties contacted us. Yes, we got a result, but still there were 1.2 billion kroner in government subsidies. And that's what the big group said to the Progress Party. To the Workers' Party: It may not just be rumors that Grethe Fossum provided about the voting order. But what Fossum says indirectly, just confirms that the efforts of the Labour Party, which they have put so much emphasis on in this debate in relation to obtaining an opera decision, are not real. It's only a matter of locating in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e780	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e784	President!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e791	The President must ask the representatives to speak in time, so that the President can register them before he clubs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e794	I'm sorry if I was a little late. The Minister of Culture called today a day of joy and congratulated the Norwegian Opera with opera building. I and the Progress Party certainly do not believe that this is a joyous day for the entire population of Norway. First of all, there is a very small proportion of Norway's population who use or want to use the Opera in Oslo, and I don't think the number will increase after today's decision. Neither do I think there are so many people who care so much. But people care about their local environment and what it can offer them, so that they can still live there together with their family. And here it is, among other things. on culture and culture. But it's about very small amounts. This is about small arrangements, where funds are largely transferred from the efforts of parents and others, for example. in the case of soldering or cake bazaars. Think of 2,000 million. kr could have done in this area! Then it would not be necessary to drop school corps, sports teams, revisions, etc. So to the cultural concept and lack of this at the Progress Party. I want to claim that my cultural concept for me is just as good as for the others here in the hall, although I and the Progress Party want to use it about. 2 000 million in a completely different way. Let the concept of culture be diverse. It has to be the way we get a diverse and exciting society to live in, without too much interference from a large majority here on the Biggest.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e805	It goes clearly towards the end of the debate. The part of the opera proposition that has come entirely in the shadow of today's debate is all the chapters dealing with the Opera itself and the contents of the Opera, the art to be disseminated, and the culture to be spread to the people, and not just to a few kingdoms, as some in the Progress Party like to present it. I just want to underline it, because the Right is going to vote against a location in Bjørvika. But we've gone along with a majority, a majority of all parties except the Progress Party, what's called the objective and function, what's called cost uncertainty and governance, what's called the organisation of the building owner's responsibility, what's called the architectural competition, the operation of a new opera house and the opera and ballet distribution in Norway. At all of these points, there is a total accumulation, minus the ‘Gutta’ in the Progress Party, clearly saying yes to getting a new opera house in Norway, and we agree on the organization of the Opera to which it is added by the Department. I want to emphasize it, because we're probably in the situation that we're voting against the Bjørvika option, because it's at the point that we're separating layers. We believe that it is not right to accept the alternative for which the Minister of Culture and the Government parties will subsidize, but we will therefore support the content and communication that the Opera is going to pursue. We also want to wish the Opera luck in those maybe a little too many years that will go by now, before they can move into a new house.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e816	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3945]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e830	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working party 10 minutes, other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e839	Here it swings quickly from opera to rock, i.e. it is not called rock in the official terminology called rhythmic music. The background to today's case is the joint comment of the Labour Party and the Progress Party in the budget for 1999. Through this proposition, the Ministry has proposed how this should be followed up. After intensive work in the Committee, the majority – all except the Advance Party – have come up with joint comments. The core of the conflict has been the disposal and distribution of the funds allocated to rock, or rhythmic music, as it is called in departmental languages. The majority believe that there has to be a goal to get a coordinated and concerted effort to get the most out of the appropriations that become the rhythmic music. The majority are not satisfied with the fragmentation that has arisen in relation to these appropriations, and are asking for solutions to benefit organisers, venues, musicians and the public in the years to come. An important part of the consensus that has now been reached is based on the Ministry of Culture returning to the issue of the organisation of tour, festival and transport support in the budget for 2000. The majority ask the Ministry to review the need for operating grants to the Norwegian network while establishing principles for the allocation of funds related to the scheme. The Ministry is asked to return to this in the budget for the year 2000. For the distribution of the 2.1 million. kr to the organisations, the majority proposes a division of one quarter to the Norwegian Rock Federation, and that the remainder be shared equally between the two member organisations in the Total Norsk Rock, Active Women Culture Centres – AKKS – and Gramophonists Association – GramArt. As regards the funds related to the Norway network project, the majority requests that these funds be allocated as a temporary scheme for 1999 by the Rikskonzerts in consultation with the SNR, the Norway Net Organisation and the Norwegian Rock Association. We assume that the appropriations will be made available in full. If this is not done, the funds shall be transferred to the organisations after the proposed allocation key. For its part, the right would point out that we did not support the joint comments of the Labour Party and the Progress Party that were made during the last year's budgetary procedure. Now we'll get these matters clarified by next year's budget. For our part, it is important to stress that today’s tour, festival and transport support is administered by the Rikskonzerts. This arrangement deals with all kinds of music, and it would be bureaucratic to take out the coat and give it its own arrangement with its own administration. Very familiar, there has not been much dissatisfaction with the way the TFT support has been managed. There are also no serious reasons for making changes. Following the Committee's presentation of its position, the AKKS has launched dramatic announcements of the closure of its activities as a result of the Storting treatment. The size has only set of 2.1 million. kr for the purpose of organisational support. The distribution of these funds is now distorted in the AKKS' favour as a result of the majority's comments. It may seem that someone has believed that Stortinget has had the opportunity to grant new, fresh funds in this case. We haven't had that opportunity. This must also be a question in relation to the next year's budget. On that basis, the AKKS misplaced playback, and the next year's budgetary procedure will be the right time. As far as the other issues relating to the matter are concerned, I assume that other members of the Committee will deal with this, and that we will also be given a closer look at this when we arrive at the budget next year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e867	It was significant that when we went from opera to rock, most of the press basket and also the interest in the hall disappeared. That's not how the world is outside this house. I do not know exactly where to start in this case. It is a matter that has frustrated me, not in relation to the content of the matter, but in relation to the lack of will and ability that has obviously been on the part of the department. But there's one thing I've learned. That's the last time I trust that it expresses a majority in a comment, will be followed up. Therefore, the use of decisions is likely to be much more frequent in order to ensure that the wishes of the majority are followed up. The Ministry has revealed little willingness to follow up what was decided by the majority. They include: by reply to the Committee, a lack of knowledge of rock and rhythmic music has been revealed. What may be even worse, when we know that knowledge can be acquired, is that we too – at least I – have experienced a lack of will and ability to do so. It is also reassuring that the department has no better contact with the actors than has been revealed in this case. Now I have worked so long with rock and rhythmic music that I know what the tradition in the department has been like. There has never been any will or driving role in developing this field. It has always happened largely on the initiative of Stortinget, and I suspect that it will happen further as well. The majority took note and restructured the funds for rock and rhythmic music before Christmas. It was a complete restructuring in which one could not begin to break up, as the department has done in St.prp. No 60, in smaller parts, and then prove it's not related. If the majority had been followed, the total Norwegian Rock would have totaled approx. 10.8 million. kr for distribution between organisations and the Norway network. After operating aid to SNR’s organisations, it would have been EUR 5.8 million. to the Norway network, which is a significant increase in the Norway network. However, when the Government chooses not to transfer the appropriations to the TFT scheme through the Rikskonserts to the Norway network that had been possible, this would result in a significant loss of revenue to the Norwegian network. This is contrary to the wishes of the majority and therefore the remaining restructuring and aid schemes cannot be implemented either. But I expect that we will have the opportunity to come back to this from next year. I also note that the Government is proposing to reorganise the Norway network without carrying out an evaluation of the current system, or having clarified significant issues in this regard. Nor was the progress of the Norwegian network clarified at the end of the project period this year. On this basis, it appears strange that the Ministry proposes to reorganise the project once six months of the total five-year project period remain. That's why we wanted to go against this arrangement. In addition, it is emphasised from our side that the initial objective of continuing to expand the number of sites connected to the Norway network remains constant. The original objective of non-commercial driving and exercise facilities is another indication made in the budget before Christmas, which will continue to stand firm. The opening of operating grants to sites connected to the Norwegian network which at least entered before Christmas will also be able to come back to the budget next time. With regard to the tour, festival and transport support scheme, no one seems to think that there is a bad scheme or that it has worked badly. That is why we have no problem maintaining that system if the government believes it is valuable to add the extra money that is needed to maintain it. But our attitude to the system has not changed. The Ministry has argued in its proposal that the majority comment did not impose a legal requirement on the organisations concerned. No, but they have at least incurred significant losses in operating grants when the majority’s observations are not followed up. And we have been aware for quite a while that the AKKS has announced that they have had to stop operating in two departments. Furthermore, it should be noted that the Ministry has not taken into account the fact that two of the SNR organisations have merged into one, and among others. Whereas, in the light of the Committee's question, there is little evidence that the Department has considered the matter thoroughly enough to have knowledge of it; On the other hand, we have now been made clear that the funds earmarked for the Norwegian Rock Federation from the pot that used to go to Samlatt Norsk Rock are now to be allocated through Norwegian Musikkräd. Norwegian Musikkräad is an organisation that grants money according to criteria, and I assume that the funds that Norsk Rockförbund has previously received through the SNR go to Norsk Rockförbund hereafter as well. In this respect, I would like to point out what was in the State Consultant's review and evaluation of State grants to rock: ‘The risk of close links between the ministry and voluntary organisations in the field of rock is that they may become ‘professional’, i.e. spending too much time managing/administrating/reporting so that the country is satisfied, rather than engaging in creative innovation activities in the field of rock.’» It's a development that I think we're going to be very aware of, and fence about the creative environments within the rock environment and try to set them up in the best possible way. Now I'm not going to go into what was the rapporteur's list, among other things. in relation to the prioritisation of the AKKS. It has not been such that funds have gone directly to the organisations, they have gone to the SNR, and then SNR has distributed them further, so how those funds have been distributed to the organisations is not something the Storting has had an influence on before. I think it is quite appropriate that the AKKS, who receives operating grants from the state as the only grant, gets it over the SNR system and gets priority. There are other organisations that get from more. The end of the visa, in order to obtain a decision at all that could help organisations in a situation where there is a drought of money because of the lack of a proper decision on operating grants, was that the Committee has largely agreed on a kind of compromise. The Labour Party could also seek to address the proposals of the Progress Party. The difference between the proposal of the Progress Party and the position of the Labour Party is that it is not explicitly provided, as the Labour Party has done from the outset, that the project of the Norway network should be maintained. On the other hand, there is one thing I want to underline. The majority have stated in their position that the funds for the Norway network are allocated by the Rikskonzerts after consultation with the SNR, the Norway Net Organisation and the Norwegian Rock Federation, as a temporary scheme for 1999. I expect that it is a decision that will be taken very seriously, and I can assure the Council of State that the Storting will follow closely the developments in this area. The assumption is, of course, that the funds are made available in full. If not, the remaining funds shall be transferred to the organisations after the proposed allocation key. So here's an opportunity for the AKKS to maintain its departments and the activity they've had in recent years. What happens with the AKKS now is in line with the majority that expected before Christmas, and thus cleaned up. That is why the Minister of Culture has a personal responsibility for what is now happening. I would also like to conclude that I assume, in the light of the evaluation of the tour, festival and transport support scheme, that there is neither a call nor an award before returning to Stortinget with this in budgetary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e906	There will usually be debate when financial resources, or how they are to be distributed, are to be discussed, as well as in this matter of chapter. 323 Musical purposes item 78 Miscellaneous fixed measures. The Progress Party refers to the treatment of budget revenue. S. No 2 for 1998-99 chapters. 323 item 78, which contained a complete restructuring of the funds for rhythmic music. When the Department of St.prp. No 60 for 1998-99 does not deal with the majority’s appropriations and premises in their entirety, but chooses to postpone parts of the cast to deal with them in the context of the next year’s government budget, this will cause problems for more organisations, for example. AKKS, who will have to shut down their business. St. pp. No 1 for 1998-99 stated: ‘The Ministry proposes that all these grants from 1999 be given on a freer basis as a pool of grants and that organisations be given extended responsibilities.’ In line with this and the Statskonsult report, the majority will grant the grant as direct support to the organisations. Thus, the desired effects would have been achieved. By implementing the majority’s remark on representation in councils and selections of organisations, the Ministry would contribute to further strengthening in this area by ensuring that the TFT scheme’s intentions had been met through existing adjusted mechanisms. In this way, a strong strengthening of rhythmic music would be carried out in the current year. The Progress Party will indicate that the Norway network was established on the basis of a need for non-commercial delivery and practice facilities organised as a tour route around the country. The Party notes that the network has evolved on the basis of assumptions. The Norwegian network currently has 18 active venues. The operational performance reports show that these sites are functioning according to their intention. The scheme is operated on the basis of the singer's own assumptions and expertise, a solution The Progress Party believes it is important to build on. Several professional teams have pointed out that the Norwegian network will depend on some operating support to operate and further develop its structure in line with the underlying objectives. The Progress Party also notes that the Government proposes to reorganise the Norway network without carrying out an evaluation of the current system or clarifying significant issues in this respect. In addition, it has also recorded that Norwegian record sales fell sharply in 1998, while a downward trend in the total market. Reference is made to the observations made by the majority in connection with the budget entry. S. No 2 for 1998-99. The majority indicate that digital copying has recently seen a sharp increase. The Ministry is asked to investigate and assess the establishment of remuneration and fund schemes to compensate for the significant loss of income that Norwegian operators and composers are now exposed to due to new technological possibilities. This must also be seen in the light of the considerable competition with Norwegian music from foreign music. The Progress Party believes that it is important for the nation to facilitate the situation so that it is possible to survive as a musician, and will show that there are opportunities for Norwegian artists to establish themselves in the commercial market domestically and abroad, which we have recently seen examples of. One premise is to facilitate the provision of opportunities for Norwegian artists. Therefore, the Progress Party is of the opinion that funding for rock should be distributed to the lowest possible level in order to maximise the use of resources. The Progress Party is of the opinion that these funds should be allocated to a central link, which then allocates the funds to the respective organisations, following decisions taken by democratic processes. We have noticed that Total Norsk Rock is an organisation that can play such a role as a central link, and is therefore in favour of all the funds allocated to rock in the future being allocated to this organisation. The Progress Party believes that such a solution will inspire cooperation between rocking organisations, so that the best interests of rocklings are taken care of, and encourages proposals to do so. The proposal reads as follows: «The budget agrees to the 1999 budget allocation, cap. 323 Musical purposes Item 78 Miscellaneous fixed actions, a total grant of SEK 7 283 000 to organisations in the field of rock. The entire appropriation is allocated to Total Norwegian Rock for the operation of their membership organisations and for their projects.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e934	Per Roar Bredvold has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e937	When we go from opera and so on to rhythmic music, it shows tension in music life. It is also the diversity to which we should contribute through an active cultural policy. Nor can rhythmic music be left to the market. The progressing party realizes that there can't be rhythmic music, but they will leave the rest of the music life to the market. It's a paradox! Through Community solutions, we must ensure that everyone, regardless of sex and size of the wallet, has the opportunity to participate in the rock environment. I point out to the sex, because the appropriations for the Active Women's Culture Centre, the AKKS, have become something more problematic than at least I was aware of when we went into this matter. SV was at the joint remark in the budget setting because we wanted to help secure the frames around the rhythmic music. And I'm pretty convinced that much of what we agreed on then was right. But then we saw that the result was disturbing in the rock environment, and that's not the first time. It shows that this is an exciting environment, but something unwieldy, to say it mildly, for someone who doesn't know the history of previous rockings. It also shows that all parties must be included on advice in the further process. I am pleased that the department will continue to work on the important issues raised in the majority opinion in the budget position before Christmas. I am also pleased that we will come to the matter at the budgetary procedure for the autumn. We should then go into the treatment without prejudice. What the majority do in this matter is to cut through and ensure that organisations have money to run, and to ensure that arrangements are maintained in the way that it is possible to do so. The majority say that it is a goal to get a coordinated and concerted effort to get the most out of the funds allocated to the rhythmic music. Then the organizations will find out what they want Total Norsk Rock to be. One of the problems with the proposals of the Progress Party today is that the organisations have not come up with what the Total Norsk Rock should be. It is also important that the Norway network continues to be what it was supposed to be, namely a network of venues where artists in the starting pit will be released. SV has been told that practitioners must be represented in the governance of the Norwegian network. Some of the dissatisfaction has been that there has not been enough effort to get practice rooms. We therefore support the requirement that both practitioners and organisers should be involved in and manage what is managed by public funds. So to what became difficult, the AKKS appropriations. The result of the majority decision is more money for the AKKS than the department went in for, but less than the AKKS was proposed after the treatment before Christmas. I think it's out of the question, to put it mildly, that the result of the treatment today may be that the central section and the Oslo department are shut down. In Oslo, that means that 30 bands lose the practice rooms, and that course and concerts may have to be cancelled. I would therefore challenge the Minister of Culture to look specifically at the appropriations for the AKKS, to see if there are any opportunities this year, so that women in the rock world are not hit. I think these are some challenges for us as committee members and for the ministry that we need to get more involved in the special thing that the AKKS represents – and for the girls in the AKKS not to trust that the guys who run lobbying in the Stortinget automatically take care of the girls' interests. That's why there was a nice marking the girls had in front of the Storting yesterday. AKKS is an ideal music organisation with the aim of increasing girls' opportunities and participation in rhythmic music. AKKS recruits, follows up and visualizes girls at all stages of the music industry. I am impressed when I read about their activities, and I realize that these are quite unique offers that have to be taken care of. Then, too, is the history of the AKKS history of girls who want and can, and who have made a formidable effort through hard work, but who also get in trouble once the KAJA funds and later the civil labor system are removed. It shows something about the scarcity of cultural life, and it's a challenge that affects more. But in this round, it's about saving the girl's offer in the AKKS.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e958	I would just like to make a very brief reference to the simple review which the rapporteur-in-Office of the House, Mr Helleland, had. He was also aware of the background to the whole case, namely the joint comment on the 1999 budget, which made it necessary to present a new case here in the Grand Duchy. I have registered that someone believes that there is little willingness to follow up remarks in the department. That's not true. We have tried at best to understand and get this done. And I note that despite the frustration expressed here, it is a broad majority – apart from the Progress Party – that essentially ends up with what was our proposal. We have promised that in the 2000 budget we will return to this matter. I think it is also imperative to say to Stortinget that we have to get this done, so that we release the kind of extra round that we have had here today. It's unfortunate for Stortinget, it's very unfortunate and laborious for the department, and of course it's also unfortunate for those organizations that have been suggested here, something that it wasn't the basis for. With these words, I'm going to promise to bring back the signals that have come here, back to the ministry, and express the hope that, in the context of the next year's budgetary procedure, we can reach an agreement that allows us to get clarity on these things, based on a proposal from our side in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e969	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3946]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e983	The Government proposes the approval of the draft terms of merger between the Norwegian Bank and the Postbank. All members of the Committee support the Government's proposal, with the exception of the member of the SV. I want to restrict myself here to stating two main reasons why there is such a broad consensus on this. First, the Postbank needs a partner because of its special borrowing situation, and DnB is a good partner with this in mind. The second thing I want to say is that Norway needs strong financial institutions, and the risk of foreign purchases through mergers is significant. In Sweden and Denmark, financial institutions are awarded twice the price of Norwegian financial institutions, and that means that merging Norwegian banks, by share issues, which means printing money, can be carried out at half the price in Norway via Swedishs and Danishs. It is therefore important to maintain strong national financial institutions with head offices in Norway. On this basis, I would like to promote the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e996	The Labour Party joins the Government's proposal for consent to a merger between Postbanken and DnB. We in the Workers' Party initially had a different view of who the Postbank should join, but when the Center Party and the Christian People's Party wanted something else and turned to the Right and the Advance Party in order to get through their views on the matter, we think the battle is lost, and then we'll make the best of the situation. The Postbank needs to merge with something, and DnB is probably the best one right now. But I have also taken the floor to point out some aspects of this merger case. First of all, we think that the government should be very careful in dealing with matters where the state is both the owner and the concession authority. In this case, the Stortinget first received a proposal on the form of a limited liability company from the Postbank, without concluding that this was a provision for the merger. Thereafter, the proposal for consent to a merger was submitted before the proposed form of a limited liability company was completed in Stortinget. The procedure meant that the Stortinget was made aware of substantial information about the matter in an inexhaustible way, and we believe that this is a critical procedure. That being said, we support the proposal, but it would be much better if we had had a holistic review of what the plan was, when we got the first case for the Storting. In a letter from the Ministry of 7 June this year, it was shown that the Post was required to enter into an agreement with a financial institution, when it is granted a single right and was required to provide basic banking services throughout the Post’s network of despatch. The Labour Party believes that such basic banking services across the country are very important, and it must be possible to assume that a merger between Postbanken and DnB should not lead to a long-term poorer offer through Posten's despatch network. I expect that the Ministry’s reply will mean that basic banking and payment services will be continued after their business agreement expires on 1 May 2002, and that the Council of State can confirm this. We have also noticed that the Government of the Proposition says that it will consider using part of the funds released by the merger to maintain the structure of parts of the postal network. Yeah, it's going to be exciting to see if it's going to be the reality of the budget for the fall and the coming years. But at least one has the purpose to do so, and we'll record that. The Government proposes that those added to the Postbank at the time of the merger may continue under current conditions as members of the State Pension Fund until further notice, as it is called. In St. prp. No 38 for 1993-94 in connection with the merger between Postgiro and Norway's Postbank.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «On the part of employees, safe and secure transition will be particularly related to safe working conditions and overall non-impairment of pay and working conditions. The statement of intent focuses, in particular, on employee participation in migration processes, the need to ensure both efficiency and security, the use of instruments to ensure positive migration processes and the attempt to avoid any deterioration of the situation in today’s labour market. The Ministry of Transport assumes that this is also taken into account in the merger between Postgiro and Postbanken.» In the Labour Party, we believe that migration under security should be a guide to the impact of human resources on this merger as well. Therefore, it is important that employee organisations are involved in the design of the working conditions that should apply after the merger, perhaps I would like to point out in particular that this also applies to pension conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1016	Let me first say to the case rapporteur that there are many strange arguments you should hear for a merger. Here it is used as an argument to have strong Norwegian financial environment. Of course, I agree with your heart, but here we're talking about a merger between two banks that are both initially owned by the state. One, the Post Bank, is 100 pst. State owned and recently authorised to be converted into a limited liability company. The other one is also a state bank, which the state had to take over because it itself was unable to order its own home. When using ‘strong Norwegian financial environment’ as an argument for this particular merger, it is at best a very subservient argument. This is a matter which is a direct follow-up to previous decisions in Odelstinget that the Postbank can be converted into a limited liability company. The representative of Frøiland was involved in the strange proceedings ahead of this. In this case, it is first up to a limited liability company, without saying directly that this is a prerequisite for a merger, which is then proposed before the case is settled in Stortinget. Leave it! SV is in today's position against the proposed merger, and there is hardly any surprise for anyone. It would have been rather a surprise if there was not a majority for the merger in Stortinget, than say the hope of surprise in the other matter that the Norwegian people are now concerned about, the Opera case that was dealt with just before this. There are in particular two reasons why SV is opposed. One is that the Postbank disappears as an independent bank. In our opinion, such a merger will not bring any economic or socio-economic benefits. The Postbank has had an important function for many ordinary banking customers. It has filled the need for a mortgage and a regular personal account that most of us have. There is no reason to believe that the usual banking service for ordinary postal banking users will be better or cheaper after such a merger. All experience shows the opposite. Merger banks are larger units, which calculate larger margins, and there's probably also every reason to believe that those who will get the best out of this are the shareholders and not the bank users. The second reason why SV is opposed is that this will not serve consumers. It will be exciting to see how this is going to be dealt with by competition authorities, whether it is actually possible for the merging bank to take over the exclusive rights of Posten’s services with a monopolist bank. This may be contrary to the EEA Agreement. I usually don't use the EEA Agreement as an argument, but here DnB is given exclusive rights to the Posten's network for the sale of banking services. It will be exciting to see how this is going to be dealt with by competition authorities, whether it is actually possible for this merging bank to take over the exclusive rights of Posten’s services with a monopolist bank. This may be contrary to the EEA Agreement. I usually don't use the EEA Agreement as an argument, but here DnB is given exclusive rights to the Posten's network for the sale of banking services. It will be exciting to see how that case goes. Let me also stress that this merger will, of course, lead to a significant loss of jobs. There is likely to be less competition in the banking market in many regions of Norway where overlapping networks exist. It will in turn mean opportunities for greater monopolistic formation of some places, which in turn will drive prices in the weather. There are many cuttings in the sea before this merger actually becomes a reality. The Competition Authority is going to look at it, the Credit Authority is going to look at it, and I guess ESA will look at it. A contract entered into for the purchase of banking services in the postal network is thus doubtful. That means that I don't really think it's unlikely that the merger that the majority of the population will adopt today will not necessarily look just like that when you get the final result. SV is opposed to the proposed merger for the reasons set out above. We don't think this would benefit either the consumer or the Norwegian community. I think it is discouraging to see that even the central government, which initially agreed with SV on these kinds of structural and financial issues, now one-sidedly emphasizes completely different arguments, as there were previously completely different parties that weighted. Let me also say for the Postbank's part that we agree that the Postbank needs alliance partners, and that their one-sided combined loan portfolio can be a problem. We would have wished, like the Workers' Party, that the Postbank could have found alliance partners within the State banking network, for example. The house bank, the municipal bank, the Fiskarbank or other state banks. The government of Jagland promoted the proposal that some of the last time it did, the government of Bondevik drew it, and since then the proposal has not been re-proposed. I think it's a shame. I would have liked to go further along that track, to see if it was possible to create a large state bank that could fill social functions, as the Postbank and other state banks do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1037	The Progress Party takes note that the Postbank and DnB consider that a merger between them would be beneficial to both parties and, to the extent that no comments are made on it until the opinions of the Banking Authority and the Competition Authority are available. But there's a couple of things we think it's important to get established already. Firstly, it is important that the special feature of the Postbank’s ability to provide banking services through the mail’s despatch network is not automatically passed on to the merged bank at the end of the current agreement on 1 May 2002 but that the financial institutions are then placed in a level playing field with Post Norway BA. Such an agreement must then be based on purely commercial criteria. The second important point of the Progress Party is to reduce the country’s ownership of the merged bank. The government proposes to reduce this ownership interest to 33.4 pst. For us, this is just a little step in the right direction towards what we think is the only right thing, namely that the state sells all of its shares in the DnB/Postbank.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1044	What is on the table today is, as far as I can see, a proposal for a sensible merger between two Norwegian actors. The reason why it makes sense for the Postbank to find a merger partner is structural considerations which suggest that they should have closer contact, or merger with a bank with a slightly larger lending facility. The Postbank is a very attractive deposit bank, but has some problems with having enough loans. As a result, something has also gone beyond the bank's performance. I noticed that the representative, Mr. Djupedal, felt that the arguments of the rapporteur here on a Norwegian option were not relevant, that there are no strong arguments in favour of such a merger, and that it would go beyond competition. Firstly, we have recently seen that there has been a rather strong interest in buying-in among foreign actors in Norwegian financial institutions. Focus Bank has now come into the hands of one of the major Scandinavian banks, the Danish Bank, which I believe will contribute to further strong competition in the Norwegian market. It is also the case that the Svenska Handelsbanken has a concession request regarding the acquisition of Bergensbanken, so that we see a tougher competitive climate. As far as I am concerned, I am surprised that neither SV sees its own value in the fact that the Norwegian Bank is able to build a robust alternative around the environment. Now that you have opened up a merger between Gebensiderige and Sparebanken NOR, you also have another strong Norwegian player that I think you should be happy about on the track. Of course, from the Right, we are positive that the state will now sell itself into the Postbank, which has been 100 pst. State owned, that now you're going to gradually get into a share of 33 1/3. It's a progress. At the same time, we wish that this had gone a little faster, and that it had also been subsequently signaled that one was willing to liquidate the state ownership of the banks. The same was recorded by the Progress Party v/Monsen, as well as in the setting. With regard to the Post Bank's agreement with the Post Office, it is important to stress that when it expires in 2002, this agreement must be tendered. I also want confirmation from the Council of State. Now, of course, DnB and Postbanken want to put themselves in such a competitive position, because they have good cooperation, and they also have a lot of knowledge and insight into the technology used today. But I am quite convinced that in relation to the EEA, as SV was suddenly so very concerned about now, the main problem for this merger is not there. Here, I think Djupedal needs to become a little more specific about what would raise competition problems in relation to the EEA. However, what could potentially be a problem is that when this agreement expires, the authorities do not open up real competition for the postal network distribution apparatus in 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1057	I see a merger between the Postbank and DnB in line with the draft terms of merger negotiated between the two banks, as a good solution for the Postbank. At the same time, the merged financial group will provide a competitive national alternative. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Finance Committee, all except for the Committee's member of the Socialist Left Party, subscribe to the Government's proposal to approve the draft terms of merger between Norwegian Bank ASA and Postbanken AS. The Postbank and DnB complement and complement each other regionally, nationally and internationally. The banks complement each other significantly in terms of services, customer groups and product areas. A merged group will be able to offer, through a common technical product platform and efficient production, a wide and competitive range of financial products and services. Common product platform combined with a unique distribution gap could improve the availability of the services of the merged group and increase choice for both household and business customers. A merger could strengthen the provision of financial services to customers in both banks. The Postbank and DnB also have well-balance sheet structures that provide a better balance sheet structure and reduce the interest rate and liquidity risk of the merged group. The Government's proposal for a merger between DnB and Postbanken was made subject to the agreement of the Stortingen to the Government's proposal for the conversion of Postbanken BA into a limited liability company. This has been made clear initially in the submitted landfill proposal. Decision of the Trustee on 1 June of this year in connection with the examination of St.prp. No 61 cf. Inner. S. No 194 for 1998-99 and Ot.prp. No 53 cf. Inner. O. No 75 for 1998-99, this assumption is met. In the light of the decision of the Storting on transformation and in line with the terms of the merger, Postbanken AS will be formed before extraordinary general meetings of DnB and Postbanken, respectively. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party consider it critical that the Stortinget was first presented to the Postbank with proposals for limited liability companies, without demonstrating that this is a precondition for the merger, and that proposals for consent to merger are subsequently promoted before the proposed form of a limited liability company has been completed. In the opinion of these members, this implies that ‘the size was made known with material information on matters in an undisputed manner’. This was also addressed by SV now during the debate. In this context, I think it is worth stressing that the Government's proposal to transform the Postbank into a limited liability company was promoted on an independent basis, regardless of whether or not there will be any of the proposed merger between Postbanken and DnB. I pointed out that this was also underlined in my post in connection with the wholesale treatment of the AS case. I would also like to mention here that when the proposals in the AS case were promoted, it was not yet clear whether the authorities of the Postbank and DnB would agree to a merger. Furthermore, I would like to recall that it is a central condition of the draft terms of merger that extraordinary general meetings of the respective companies for the approval of the draft terms of merger are to be held by 30 June at the latest. The respective Boards of Directors were in favour of the merger on 27 and 28 April respectively and the merger project was approved by the Boards of Directors on 11 May only. Should it be possible to obtain the consent of the Storting for the approval of the draft terms of merger in the spring session, the propositions in the merger case had to be advanced to the Stortinget as soon as possible in May, and then necessarily before the issue of the conversion of the Postbank into a limited liability company had been settled in the Stortinget. A merger between Postbanken and DnB is expected, on the basis of the assumptions laid down in the draft terms of merger and the project, to increase the value of the owners through the withdrawal of synergistic gains in different parts of the business. It is assumed that the increase in value is the result of, inter alia, cost savings of approx. 460 million. kr per. years in connection with the common product platform, operation, production and IT platform, joint head office and coordination of the branch network. In addition, there are estimated revenue synergies of between 150 and 200 million. kr on an annual basis from 2005. The parties to the merger argue that the majority of synergies can be realised by the end of 2001 and that synergies can be fully realised by the end of 2004. The postal bank agreement with the Post on the use of the postal network for the distribution of basic banking services and ancillary services will be continued with the merged bank. The postal network is considered by the parties to be an attractive and cost-effective distribution channel for simple banking services and the aim of the merger is to contribute to strengthening the use of the postal network. The purpose of the Post Bank is to contribute to the promotion of saving and efficient credit provision and efficient postal giro services and other payment services in society. The basis for the Bank's operations is to ensure a real banking option for individuals and small and medium-sized enterprises throughout the country. The connection to the postal network has been a central element in ensuring access to the relevant services throughout the country since the establishment of Postgiro and Postsparebank. However, the market for banking and payment services has changed significantly since the establishment of the Postbank. Market actors are increasing and the supply to customers is increasingly tailored to their needs. Electronic services have largely been taken over by traditional banking services. According to the banking coordination some years ago, transmission and other payment services can be efficiently performed independently of the customer's connection to a special bank. Through the agreement with the Post, the merged group will contribute to ensuring that customers across the country can continue to use postal and postal services to perform manual banking services if they so wish. According to the new provision of the Postal Company Act, adopted in connection with the transformation of Postbanken BA into a limited liability company, cf. Ot. pp. No 53 for 1998-99, the Post is obliged to enter into an agreement with a financial institution in which it is granted exclusive rights and is required to provide basic banking services throughout the Post. The agreement with the merged bank will ensure its fulfilment. The duration of the agreement is until 1 May 2002, as previously affected by several speakers. If, after the end of the contractual period, the parties do not consider it appropriate to continue the contract, the Post will have to seek to find another contractual partner. As demonstrated by the write-off, the Government assumes that the Post will enter into negotiations with the relevant contracting partners in good time before the end of the contract period, so that the provision of basic banking services through the postal network can be ensured even after 1 May 2002. The use of the postal network by the merged bank could increase the traffic in the postal offices, thus providing the Post with a few more legs in relation to the demanding developments the company is facing in terms of traffic development in the despatch network. However, the extent of possible increased traffic is unclear. Regardless of the merger, the Post will have to assess at any time the composition of the despatch network and adapt it to market needs, the requirements for the provision of services imposed on society and sound profitability. As demonstrated by the landfill proposal, which was previously affected by the debate, the Government will consider using part of the funds released in the event of a merger between the Postbank and DnB to maintain the structure of parts of the postal network. The Government will return to this in its annual budget proposals. At the end, I would like to stress that it is as important now as before securing customers and businesses throughout the country a good offer of banking and payment services. However, the government no longer considers the ownership of the Postbank as a necessary instrument to ensure this. If allowed, let me, as the responsible state council, express satisfaction that during the interview this spring, the Storting has been willing to deal, on short notice and with a tight agenda, with major and comprehensive issues such as the merger of Telenor and Telia, the transformation of the Postbank into a limited liability company, and here today the approval of the merger between Postbanken and DnB. The last few months and weeks have been challenging for both a government council and a government agency that not only has to ensure that they control the entire area but which is equally dependent on recommendations and valuations from the companies concerned, from the boards and from business meetings. For this reason, the timeliness shown by the committees concerned, on the part of the rapporteurs of the case and on the part of the Stortinge, has been crucial for achieving objectives. After all, in these matters we have talked about the largest Nordic industrial association ever, and tonight we are talking about an important banking merger at national level, which the majority believe will be of benefit to both the Postbank, the DnB and the postal network.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1089	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1092	In its submission, the Council of State concerned the distribution agreement between Postbanken and Posten, and he said that if the Postbank, i.e. the merged DnB, does not consider it appropriate to continue the agreement after 2002, it is necessary to engage in dialogue with other actors. I asked the Council of State about financial institutions to be asked the same in the competition for such an agreement with Posten Norge AB based on purely commercial criteria after May 2002. After the Council of State's intervention, it's unclear what the Government thinks. If the merged DnB/Postbank wishes to continue the agreement and considers it appropriate, is it that the Council of State does not consider it to be subject to a tender or, in any event, is it required to submit a tender? If the Council of State concludes that it cannot guarantee that it will submit a tender, how does it reconcile with the EEA requirements to which Norway is subject?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1099	The Council of State can confirm that there will be an open and real competition – if I want to use the words ‘to be equal’, I am a little uncertain about it. It is true that, on the part of the DnB/Postbank, a part of the postal network itself has to be assessed, but it is clear that there will be an open and real competition we are talking about, from 1 May 2002. In addition, it has been suggested that the process of having an access point on the financial group side must start so early from the Post Office that it can be in place on 1 May 2002. In other words, it is the responsibility of the Post Office to ensure that they have such an agreement in place when the date is there. It has previously been the Postbank's responsibility to offer the service in the network under the Postbank Act.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1104	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1108	Some things were said that deserve a comment. The Council of State stressed how busy it was to get the matter through in Stortingen before the end of the spring session, and that it was also such that it wanted a transformation to AS completely independent of the fact that there was a merger request. I understand that the Council of State is in a hurry. But the main thing you've been doing is jumping from your own point of view. And that's so far nothing new for the sitting government, you keep jumping from your own positions, I notice, for example. in view of state ownership in such an important sector as this, and in view of the structures of the banking industry. In the previous period, the central government put in all such questions and agreed not only with SV, but often went beyond SV and joined with Folkvord from RV in the type of structural issues in the banking industry. Now we have seen a merger rate in the Norwegian banking industry, and not only in the Norwegian banking industry, but also in the international banking industry, in recent years. I have not even heard that this should not be of benefit to the consumer, to society, to shareholders and to companies. There have been a number of merger plans that have not been resolved during the winter, simply because they have not been implemented. Once again, one uses the exact same arguments. Often a trick – almost whatever banks you want to merge, you can use identical arguments. And in this merger we're talking about here, which is the result of another merger called the "Postbox" not going in order this winter, you get up around to see if you could find any new bed partners. Then a new bed partner came up, and then you use the exact same arguments that you've used for that merger that didn't work out. In truth, you can wonder about the substance of the argument about how you want the banking industry. The Postbank has performed a function in the Norwegian banking network with which many ordinary consumers have been satisfied and which has been important to them. What's going to happen now, we don't know -- we just don't know that. What we know is that competition in many parts of the market will be weakened. It's quite obvious. State councils themselves talked about synergies, and synergies are very sound. In common language, this means rationalisation and job losses, closure of post offices, closure of banking branches. It is the synergy effect in ordinary, understandable Norwegian. That means that competition will be less. It should therefore be interesting to see what the competition authorities are saying about this merger. This will be the deciduous largest bank in Norway, with such a dominant market position in so many regions that for me it is completely incomprehensible how it can be said that this is beneficial for the consumer, without even having heard the opinion of the Competition Authority. So until the Børge Burnde was busy in a reply to me about the EEA agreement. What has been the situation is that the Post Office's network is the state's. Then you also have the Postbank, which has entered into a commercial agreement with the Post Office on how to use the Post Office's network to sell banking services. The Postbank then merges with the Norwegian Bank, without competition from other financial corporations. In reality, a complete network is being taken over, which the Post currently offers without other financial institutions being given the opportunity to access the same network. So you get a monopoly of banking services on the Posten network. I don't know what the EEA Agreement is like at that point, but I've heard the story of, from many people, that it can be called into question here whether it is in line with the general competition rules of the EEA Agreement. It is well possible that it is allowed, but in any case I would say that it is objectionable. It is a concern that only the kind of contracts that the usual consumer will lose and that the shareholders will probably be the only ones that serve. I don't think this is the last merger we get in the Stortinget, nor the last case we get where a state company is converted into AS. I regret this development, because in an increasingly liberalized world, state ownership is one of the few governance instruments we have left. And that means that state ownership in banking is particularly important. Therefore, it is particularly discouraging to see that the central government, which in these structural, important issues has agreed with SV, is now the first to jump out and argue so far from what has been the ideological position of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1127	There were two things I wanted to comment on after the Council of State said. The Council of State said that the conversion of the Postbank into an AS was independent of the merger. And it's probably possible, but it's not surprising that we're surprised when, before we're done in the finance committee, we're giving up the vote on this case of an AS, the government says on television that we're now in the process of a merger. In the landfill proposal that we are discussing today, it is clear that it is an arrangement for the completion of the merger that the transformation of the Postbank into a limited liability company has been carried out. When you have all these things on the table at the same time, we actually thought from the Workers' Party's side that it would be much more tidy – and also when the Council itself has pointed out how busy it is in the Department and in the Government – if we had got an overview of how one has thought about all these matters. Because it's very good for the Storting to also know how the plans are. But here it's clear that an AS was necessary to carry out a merger. I don't have to ask for any additional comments. I just want to point out that this is the case. We've held on to the fact that it's an inexorable and critical way to do it. So I noticed – at the end of the day – that even if the Council of State had a long post, he didn't want to say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1140	To the last one: Well, the employees we've been and we're very concerned about. That is why we have also mentioned it in the proposition itself and also commented on it in reply to the letters from, among other things. The Working Party and others as to how the interests of its employees are to be safeguarded. So it's mostly with. As regards the issue of conversion to AS, it was the notice of this Council of State that it should be designed in such a way that no pressure was put on the Stortinget to carry out the AS transformation if the Stortinget did not in principle agree. In other words, the AS case had come so far in terms of proposition that the Easter had come a little earlier, maybe the proposition had also been promoted earlier. Merger negotiations between the Postbanken and DnB boards started very quickly and accelerated. It is not to be concealed that it was the end date of the Stortinget – the third Friday in June – that was the governing body for those who wanted to promote the merger in order to obtain it, to be dealt with and to be given the necessary powers. The government does not jump from its previous promises, from its previous positions. If I didn't think that the merger we are now recommending was for the benefit of the postal network, was for the benefit of the customers, helped strengthen the postal network and prevented the great decline we have experienced in recent years, I wouldn't have been there to recommend it. It is my belief that this is precisely a part of securing the postal network against the strong decline we have experienced in recent years. So we didn't need to get new bed partners, we did it with the bed partners we had. We have the same starting point in the recommendation, and I think clearly that the solution that is on the table is the best solution at national level that it was possible to achieve. As far as I can see, the option of merger would be a cross-border merger.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1153	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1156	Today, the Postbank benefits from the arrangement that all tax payments etc. are made. shall be made to the Postbank as part of the joint collection. The merged Norwegian Bank, where the State will initially sell down to 33 1/3 p.m., should not be in the same special position. That is why I have the following questions to the Council of State: When will he announce the offer of the country's accounting service for separate tax collection? And if he has no answer to this now, or cannot promise that this will be published in tender, has he checked that in that case it is in line with the EEA Agreement to refrain from tendering for such a comprehensive service?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1161	The question raised by the representative Mr Børge Brende is one of the issues raised in the proposal itself and also in the Ministry of Finance's reply to the Committee's questions submitted. This is now under assessment in the Ministry of Finance. I share Mr. Børge Brende's views on the content of the question. This should be amended accordingly. What I have problems saying today is when. And as soon as the merger progresses, it will also depend on the time at which this can actually be carried out, but I share the goal with Børge Burnde.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1166	The council said it was his belief that this merger was the best. Yes, then I remember former Prime Minister Krag in Denmark, who said that you have a conviction until you take another one. In that case, it is very typical of this government. So you have a conviction all the time, but it's very temporary, so it has a deadline. What was interesting in the state council now said was that he had been told that this would be rushed through the department and the Stortinget before the summer. But who told him? Does not the Government have a self-reliance to present matters which are considered to be thoroughly dealt with? The Council of State began its contribution by saying that he had been informed that this had to be done quickly through the Stortinget and the Ministry. No one can tell the department or the Stortinget about anything, whether it is the Postbank, DnB or anyone who whispers in his ear that this is important to get through quickly. This whole procedure in the department shows how delicately this has been dealt with. So you've essentially decided to get rid of the Postbank. Then there comes a freeman, you find many good arguments for it – which is not necessarily so good, when you look after them – and then you say that this has to be done quickly to get the merger in place within a time limit that the government of the banks obviously dictated to the ministry. It could have been interesting, since he started his post that he has been informed, to know who. Is it the Prime Minister who has notified him? I'll hear from the Council of State who's given him a message. So to the second question. It is: How can this be done with equal competition from 2002? Of course, it will not be possible to imagine a level playing field from 2002, regardless of whether you have an open competition or not. From 2000, and long before that, of course, DnB and Posten have become a symbiosis, which means that the Norwegian Bank will have miles of advantage in any tendering process. It is now when the merger is established that it would have been possible for other banks to say that they want to enter the Post Office's network and sell their banking services. Once this has been established over a long period of time, it is completely impossible to imagine that other banks will have the same opportunity to enter. Then, of course, people would have been sitting in the back room and talking to each other to figure out how best to deal with these questions, so that competition would not be too premature.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1175	I wish that was how the representative Djupedal explained that you are in line here to get into the system and become part of the postal network distribution for banking services. I am very happy about the year before 2002, when the negotiations begin, to see if this is going to happen. And I hope that Djupedal is right. The council must confess that he is a little more anxious that this is not the case than the representative Djupedal. If I used the word ‘message’ at the beginning of my post, it might seem that there are people who have given notice. No, the message comes from Storting's own regulations, which say that the Storting's negotiations will end on Friday 3rd in June. That's where the message is. And that message I must convey to those who want matters dealt with for the Storting in the ordinary way. No others have placed leadership in this process. With regard to the issue of transformation into AS, which the Storting has already dealt with, this process had come a long way before there was a change of state council in the Ministry of Transport, and so that case could have been presented at an earlier date if the Easter had not come between. My conclusion is still that I had seen, and I see, solutions other than this merger to secure the future of the postal network, I had made other recommendations. I don't see it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1189	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3947]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1207	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3947]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1221	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3947]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1235	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3947]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1249	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3947]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1263	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3948]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1277	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3948]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1291	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3948]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1305	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1311	During the debate, Mr Hagen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. Carl I. Hagen – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1316	In the debate, the rapporteur spoke on the following points: ‘In the context of the proposal of the Progress Party, set out on page 10, I note that the majority of the Committee – the Labour Party, the Christian People’s Party and the Right – agree on the content.’ Later, the Left and the Center have also declared themselves in agreement with the Christian People's Party. Thus, only SV do not agree with the content of the proposal, and then no voting is necessary. I therefore allow myself to withdraw the proposal as everyone, except SV, agrees with the content and has marked it through vote and debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1326	Mr Hagen's proposal is then withdrawn, and the proposal is not a voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1343	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ola T. Loan on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Right and Central Party proposal No. 2, by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on proposal No. 3, from Ågot Valle on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The proposal of the Socialist Left Party, then of the proposal of the Progressive Party, then of the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Center Party, and finally of the vote. Carl I. Hagen – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1360	This is not an explanation of vote, but an alternative proposal for the organisation of voting. I have no problem with voting first on the proposal from SV, then on the proposal from the Progress Party, but after listening to the debate and following up on the events that have taken place, I and the Progress Party find it much more sensible that we vote on the vote on the I and then on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox I therefore allow myself to make suggestions that you vote first on the SV's proposal. If it falls, the proposal of the Progress Party will be voted on, and if – against assumption – it falls, above the I of the position, and if it falls, finally over proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1369	I want the representatives of the centre parties to vote against the proposed change in the order of voting. I did not register any justification from Carl I. Hagen for the proposal he made, and the Progress Party has given no assurance that they will vote subsidiaryly for the West Railway. On the other hand, the Labour Party has made it quite clear that they do not want to vote subsidiaryly for the Western Railway. As a result, we will not have an opera decision today, and with that reason, I would urge our representatives to vote against Mr Hagen's proposal and the President's motion for a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1374	There are then two motions for voting order: it is the President's proposal that we start by voting on the Socialist Left's proposal, then on the proposal from the Progress Party, then on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Center Party, and finally above the position. And that's the proposal of Carl I. Hagen that we start by voting on the proposal of the Socialist Left Party, then on the proposal of the Progress Party, then on the vote I, then on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Center Party, and finally over the second of the position. Alternatively, these proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1387	There is then a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to develop a comprehensive plan for the development of opera and ballet art and for the production and dissemination of opera and ballet in Norway. The plan shall be submitted to the Storting in an appropriate manner as soon as possible and by 2002 at the latest.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1399	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to scrape all plans for state-funded opera house.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1413	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «A new opera house is built with location at the West Railway Station. A combined development model is introduced to maximise economic synergies by releasing private investment on the part of the area not used for opera. The possibility of further strengthening the symbolic value of the building by combining the construction of an opera with a peace-price centre is assessed in this context.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1438	Honored President! I ask that it be voted separately on I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1445	That's what the president's going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1466	During the debate, Mr Bredvold has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The budget agrees to the 1999 budget allocation, cap. 323 Musical purposes Item 78 Miscellaneous fixed actions, a total grant of SEK 7 283 000 to organisations in the field of rock. The entire appropriation is allocated to Total Norwegian Rock for the operation of their membership organisations and for their projects.’;» An alternative is to vote between the vote and the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1516	There is a vote on the proposal by the representative Ane Sofie Tmärås, on behalf of the Workers' Party, submitted from the meeting of the Odel Stingen on 8 June 1999: ‘The decision asks the Government to return quickly to the Storting with proposals to give the borrower the right of pre-emption when the claim is transferred.’ Kristin Krohn Devold – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1524	With the President's permission, I would like to make an explanation of vote on all the matters that remain on the map, since everyone is sorting under the Justice Committee. In the case of case No. 5, I would recommend Right to support the proposal, because our primary proposal fell in Odelstinget, and this is a good next best solution in the same direction. In the case of cases No. 6 and 7 both deal with the mortgage and bankruptcy law. There it's natural to switch the order. If the proposals of the Progress Party and the Right fall under case No. 7, it would be natural for the Right subsidiary to vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox In the case of case No. 8, it had the right-hand connection also in the Odelstinget. In the case of cases No. 9, 10 and 11, this is the proposal of the Central Party during the Schengen debate, and I would urge the Right Group to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1537	The right supports the proposal. Is it true that the Progress Party also supports the proposal? - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1545	The President will follow the request to take the vote on case No. 7 in front of case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1551	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Jørn L. Stang on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, transmitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 8 June 1999: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess the amount of advance payments made to ensure the cost of accommodation [[Republic responsibility]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1567	Ane Sofie Tmärås, on behalf of the Workers' Party, submitted to the Odelstinget meeting on 8 June: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that there are sufficient values in bankruptcies to enable it to operate properly’. The right has announced that they will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1583	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 8 June 1999: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the Mortgage Act §3-4, with a view to allowing pledges in operating accessories to be legally protected by registration in the Lösøreregister.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1597	A vote shall be taken on the proposal made by Mr Tor Nymo, on behalf of the Central Party, from the meeting of the Odelstinget on 8 June 1999: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out an evaluation of the application of the concept of ‘public order’, as set out in paragraph 1. Section 27(j) of the Foreign Affairs Act after two years.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1614	A vote shall be taken on the proposal made by Mr Tor Nymo, on behalf of the Central Party, from the meeting of the Odelstinget on 8 June 1999: ‘The Government is asking the Government to develop guidelines to ensure that Norway can reserve itself, as far as possible, against foreign police being armed during observation on Norwegian territory. Article 40(3)(d) of the Schengen Convention.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1630	A vote shall be taken on the proposal made by Mr Tor Nymo, on behalf of the Central Party, from the meeting of the Odelstinget on 8 June 1999: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with an evaluation of the amendment of the law to allow foreign police to be armed during persecution and observation in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-15-2.ana.ud870e1649	There is no record.
