ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e26	The European Declaration provides a good overview of the diversity of challenges we now need to address quickly, continuously and offensively whether we are going to be able to respond to our fundamental national interests in a good way. We cannot wait for the announced Europe message until that happens, and I am also sure that it is not the intention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs either. The British-French initiative on enhanced security and defence policy cooperation in the EU and integration between the EU and the Western Union can come much faster than was previously foreseen, and can put Norway on the sideline of security policy, well to note that we do not meet and formulate our aspirations and requirements. It was promising for Norway, not least in the light of the outcome of the referendum, that NATO’s foreign ministers – a majority of them as well known to EU foreign ministers – decided in 1996 that the development of the European security and defence policy identity should take place within the framework of NATO cooperation. But it goes without saying that about the Western Union, where Norway as an associated member now has a stronger position than for example. Denmark, Sweden and Finland, who are observers, should enter the EU, make little sense to talk about Norwegian freedom of action – unless it is believed that the more cooperation between the EU and the more people who cooperate on it, the more important it is that Norway is not involved. That form of freedom of action can easily become a coercion. I am therefore pleased that the parliamentary leader of the Central Party, Johan J. Jacobsen, does not exclude any solutions that can ensure what we, as associated members of the Western Union, have actually been granted, the right to meet in the ministerial meetings and voting rights where the WEU wants to draw on NATO's resources. But we have to ask for such solutions, that's not something we get. Then we'll see if any new «house flaps» may be necessary. So a few words about Norwegian freedom of action in foreign policy and the relationship between it and the common foreign and security policy in the EU. There's a lot of confusion here. The EU’s common foreign policy covers only what can be agreed on, with unanimity. So you just agree on the most obvious thing. Trade policy is an exception because it is subject to Pillar I and the Commission. In other words, in foreign policy, it is in the EU that the person who wants the least decides the most. Where it does not agree, EU countries are pursuing their own foreign policy. And we also see a lot of examples of that. Through various summit initiatives, most recently at the Amsterdam meeting, a person seeks to make this cooperation more effective, without saying that one has reached a particularly long time. From Norway’s position as a non-member, this can be seen in at least two ways. The distance to the EU is not particularly great — and we can be pleased — when the EU’s foreign policy programme looks like an average Norwegian party programme, in other words, not particularly controversial. Close cooperation on the least common multiple, the EU's foreign policy, is of course also in our interest. The fact that last year the Norwegian Government joined some and seventy EU foreign policy initiatives and opinions, as opened up by the EEA Agreement, illustrates this. In fact, this is close to doubling compared to 1997, as the Government of the Workers' Party could possibly be suspected of having other intentions. First of all, this illustrates the fact that the countries of Europe have a common foreign policy agenda, where the distinctions are not particularly large. The question is, of course, whether this is enough, also from a Norwegian point of view, from an outsidership. The situation in the Balkans is a dramatic illustration of the fact that European countries should also be able to take on foreign, security and defence responsibilities in their own part of the world, without always relying on the United States to present itself in all its contexts. Here, national freedom of action is more a source of problems than a guideline for solving the problems. In the future, foreign and security policy must also, according to judgment, make a common commitment to solve the problems that countries cannot solve separately. We should see that, even outside the EU, as the opposite of a threat. It is an opportunity for Europe to strengthen its role in solving Europe's problems. It will be a step towards a safer Europe. And what has been called the renationalisation of foreign and security policy, with increased emphasis on the freedom of action of nations, can easily become a development that points back to the Europe of the past, and it was known as a less secure Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e41	The Foreign Minister’s presentation on 19 January drew a picture of a committed Norway in a dynamic Europe. A large part of our European agenda is necessarily linked to the relationship with the EU and its role in our continent. But with Norway's total involvement in the many European channels, we have more strings to play on, so that we have a real opportunity to define our role in Europe's development into the next millennium. For the Christian People's Party it is important to consider the whole. Norway has a unique freedom of action vis-à-vis the rest of Europe, which the Government exploits in many ways and gives us a position when the European agenda is set. The people’s no-membership shall be respected in the spirit of democracy, and the Government shall protect and promote Norway’s interests through the framework provided by the EEA Agreement. This is not a contrast ratio. It is also worth noting that our veto right is a possible tool to protect Norwegian interests. Entering into the process at an early stage and developing the EEA Agreement as a framework is a challenge. Norway is actively working with its EU relations, including in the process of enlargement of the Union, which will directly affect EEA partners. Europe is changing, it's said, and that's enough to mention the Balkans. We in the Foreign Affairs Committee have closely watched Norway take an active part in international cooperation in the Balkans. We're so far from being isolated, as someone told us we should be outside the EU. Norway is helping to secure peace and human rights through our presence in the OSCE, NATO and the UN. And through the Presidency of the OSCE, Norway's Minister for Foreign Affairs puts his mark on the current political agenda, which reaps recognition far beyond the European continent. It makes sense when one day you sit in Belgrade and talk to Serbian prisoners of war from Norway during the war, and the next day you sit in Kosovo with Albanians and see the news about the massacres in Racak. Yes, politics is about people. And the biggest challenge per. Today is the very creation of peace. Networking is important at different levels between people, between parties, different organisations and institutions — in a wide variety. I am pleased with the Foreign Minister's emphasis on this in his presentation and on the Government's willingness to give priority to supporting such activities within the available framework. It's important for us to be in dialogue. Positions are taken, positions are taken on Europe also elsewhere than in Brussels. In bilateral contacts and cooperation also in the individual EU Member States, I believe that this is an untapped potential. Strengthening networking and raising awareness of the possibilities in this area are important tools here. In networking I also include the possibility for young people to exchange knowledge and experience through exchange programmes and studies. In this context, we should look at the arrangements and agreements we have for our young people today to be able to participate in exchanges or to find places to study in European countries, as well as on the similar opportunities for young Europeans in Norway. In the construction of skills and the exchange of skills, we need to facilitate young people to move, for example: through grant schemes. The State budget for education states that it is a priority objective to ‘encourage increased international cooperation in higher education and research’. An overview shows that Norway is participating in an increasing number of international research programmes, primarily within the framework programmes of the EU. In this way, Norway can also contribute to the development of global knowledge. Within the EEA Agreement, Norway is an equivalent participant. Dialogue includes the opportunity to learn from each other. It is through increased knowledge of each other and knowledge of each other that we can contribute to greater understanding and cooperation. In a Europe where people and nations come closer together, in a Europe where conflicts and unrest quickly affect us all, in a Europe where complexity does not diminish, it is essential that contacts and cooperation are strengthened and expanded. In democracy, our European policy is also the sum of the opinions and positions of individual citizens. The Christian People's Party does not need to spend time verbally compensating for the 'foreign'. We're dealing with the EEA Agreement and we're taking time to take full advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e67	Economic and monetary union is established in the EU and the euro is introduced from 1 January this year. This may be the largest project ever implemented by the EU. The introduction of the single currency will mean a new development of the internal market – it will facilitate cross-border trade within the EU. At the same time, countries commit themselves to greater coordination of economic policies and monetary policy is subject to the new central bank. The market after the introduction of the euro will continue to be the main market for Norwegian goods. The euro countries are our main trading partners, and if we include those EU countries that are currently in the euro waiting room, they receive a total of over 70 pst. of our exports of goods. There is no doubt that it is important for Norway that the EU succeeds in its major project, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also stressed in his presentation to the Stortinget. Price stability and stable currency conditions provide predictability, a predictability that our exporting industries need. Norway, as a non-member of the EU, cannot, of course, be part of EMU either. In other words, we have to do the best we can from outside to ensure both that our business life is competitive, and that our currency is stable and has credibility. It is gratifying that yesterday we were able to note a fall in interest rates, among other things. as a result of increasing confidence in the Norwegian krona and greater accountability in financial policy. Keeping order in your own house through a responsible economic policy is still the most important thing we can do at home. Neither eurocooperation nor oil prices can deprive us of the great responsibility we have for a responsible financial policy that can contribute to lower cost growth and thus secure Norwegian jobs. The Labour Party has called for Norway to build a stronger defence agency around our monetary policy and has therefore asked the Government to enter into a dialogue with the EU on monetary issues. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement that the starting point for such contact must be ‘the continuation of today’s monetary policy regime in Norway’. The same is further underlined today. The Labour Party agrees. It is clear that the government’s powerful armsmen – the representative of Steensnæs and the representative of Jakobsen – have today tried to create a different impression. Furthermore, the Minister for Foreign Affairs states that aid purchase agreements only provide ‘economic meaning within fixed-rate regimes’. The latter can be understood as an argument against working for further credit agreements with the EU under our monetary policy regime, which is based on a stable exchange rate. Firstly, I would like to state once again that the Workers' Party does not call for a change in our monetary policy, and secondly, I note that credit agreements in that situation can be called'sleep'. However, Norway has found it appropriate to replace old credit agreements concluded with the former different central banks of Europe, with a new agreement concluded with the new central bank, within our current monetary policy. And why – if it doesn't make sense? The explanation is, of course, that such an agreement — even when it is a ‘sleep’ readiness — gives Norway something of interest and importance, namely a channel: an intervention for dialogue and contact with the European Central Bank. We believe that a political dialogue with the EU in this area must be used to explore the possibilities for further forms of agreement. This is important in order to ensure Norwegian interest from our position outside the EU and EMU. That position should be based instead of looking further for arguments against it. Through such a process, Norway gives signals that must not be underestimated in a sensitive market. Not least, such signals are important after, in the view of the Labour Party, we have had long-standing speculations as to whether the Norwegian monetary policy is firm or under termination. Unfortunately, this does not increase trust. I therefore think that the representatives of the government parties in this debate should spare themselves any indication that the Labour Party wants a different monetary policy from the one we are actually united in. Now everyone is concerned about what the answers should be, what can come out of a further dialogue with the EU. But without asking, we get no answer, and it's the government that has to ask the questions, take the floor and investigate the possibilities. That is what the majority of the Storting wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e101	The idea of the ‘other country’ has died in the Bondevik government. Yes, several government members have recently been in the vicinity of saying that they may end up at a yes-position at the next crossroads. Now, however, the issue of membership is not on the agenda. On the right, the Government considers that so far it has contributed to a more nuanced and more interesting EU debate. And one thing is clear: continuing as if the EU did not exist, as we did to some extent until the 1997 elections, is not for the best. Our relationship with the EU, the EEA Agreement, is demanding. Firstly, it requires a lot of Norwegian administration because we are outside the decision-making bodies of the EU. We need to be quick to define what our interests are best served by, then to identify the channels and procedures that are best suited to promote these interests towards the EU and the EU Member States. The question is, do we use these channels properly enough? Norway is, for example, represented in a number of expert and working groups under the Commission, but are these experts in agreement with the Government’s overall objectives for EU cooperation? Are these channels used to make Norwegian views better known? We also see examples of how the EU's own processes can affect us. The most recent example is the dispute over the burden-sharing between Member States in the financing of regional policy and the various support funds. The case well illustrates Norway’s position as a foreign citizen when it comes to safeguarding the EU’s own interests. Secondly, the EEA Agreement has a democratic deficit. Decisions on many Nordics are somewhat influenced by the Nordics. We are far too little good at liaising and networking with the EU system. Voluntary organisations, interest groups and parties may all use different channels to make Norwegian views better known in the EU system before taking the decisions. That is why we in the Right are pleased that the Government is now signaling that such contact work and networking towards the EU should be given priority, including in an economic sense. I want to remind you that the Right proposed to grant $5 million. to this type of budgetary work, without having any impact, but it is good that the Government also now sees the need. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stated in his introduction: ‘The veterinary medicinal product has been negotiated in order to be used.’ The right concerns this approach angle to the EEA Agreement. Formally, we haven't negotiated any veto rights. According to Article 102 of the Agreement, we may choose to maintain Norwegian legislation, but a Norwegian veto against new EEA legislation will not prevent the entry into force of the legislation in the EU, but only the introduction of equivalent rules in the EFTA countries. A veto may lead to the repeal of other parts of the agreement by the EU as a countermeasure. As a result, the main principle of the agreement, which is that it should be equivalent to legislation throughout the EEA, may be undermined. Failure to comply with the decisions of the EEA Committee may therefore have consequences for us of which we do not know the scope today. As the Foreign Minister himself said in his statement, we are vulnerable. The EEA Agreement is our umbilical cord in relation to the EU. It is very important for our economy, and therefore also for our welfare development. The Minister of Foreign Affairs mentions four directives which may become applicable to the Government not to incorporate into Norwegian legislation. However, he emphasises that the use of the veto right is not appropriate for a theoretical discussion. However, the right-hand side prefers a theoretical discussion of possible outcomes of the Government veto line rather than the reality that may arise, namely that the EEA Agreement is directly threatened. The government should know who has the real governance in a situation where the EU feels its Member States' interests threatened.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e128	Several of today's debaters have been concerned about our relationship with the EU on energy issues. It's an important topic. EU countries are the main market for the sale of Norwegian gas, and in five-six years between 20 and 30 pst. the gas needs of Germany and France are met by imports from Norway alone. The EU as a whole will also be more dependent on imports of oil and gas than before, and Norway will have an important role to play in this picture, both as an energy producer and as an energy exporter. In addition, both EU countries and Norway will face major challenges in terms of environmental requirements, which also have a strong impact on the energy sector. The Norwegian target is a continuous and active dialogue with the EU on energy issues. Dialogue has been established for a long time and was of great importance for Norway, among others. through the discussions we had with the EU prior to the treatment of the Gas Directive, a process which, overall, contributed to clear improvements in the directive that the EU finally adopted. The government will work to ensure understanding in the EU and EU countries about our role as an environmentally friendly energy supplier. But let us not underestimate that there is a conflict of interest in our relationship with the European Union in this area. We have to be aware of that. We are a major producer of energy, while EU countries are large consumers of energy. The fact can't be changed. Our important objective must therefore be both to have a good dialogue and to gain an understanding of our role and to safeguard our national interests in relation to cooperation in this area. The government is now about to enter into discussions with the EU on the so-called gas market directive. I have registered that the right in today's debate believes that we should accept a liberalised gas market in the EU. Obviously, we have to accept a liberalised gas market in the EU. We cannot prevent the EU from making decisions on how to organise an internal gas market in the EU. It has also not been the matter of the Government and the starting point of this case. Our concern has been the regulation of the pipelines that are part of Norwegian gas management, namely the pipelines from Norwegian oil fields down to the continent. That is what the Norwegian work in relation to the Gas Directive has been and is about. These pipelines are part of the Norwegian production system that acts as an integrated resource management system, where the Norwegian authorities have, through all stages of development and production, a necessary overall governance. Let me stress that Norway is not the only country that now needs time to discuss the directive. Too many of the EU's own Member States are also complicated by the Gas Directive. In the EU, therefore, a sea has set up an implementation group to work further with the understanding of the Directive and clarification in relation to the implementation of the Directive in national law within the EU. I am, to be honest, a little surprised at the impatience of the Right in this matter, because this is about important issues and great values for the nation of Norway, where we now have time to discuss the issues with the EU. The government is of the opinion that we should use this time to seek clarity and improvement in the interpretation of the Gas Directive. We need to clarify how our system of field neutral gas sales contracts, negotiated on a global basis, and our gas allocation system is in line with the directive. We now have an opportunity to discuss this further with the EU through the EEA treatment of the Directive. It would be strange if we weren't going to use that opportunity to discuss so that we could take care of our interests in the best possible way. Let me mention an important example of our overall resource management. The troll field is sometimes described as – to say it as a well-known Right-Man said in connection with another important matter – the jewel in the crown of Norwegian gas resources. And because we have an integrated resource management system, we will constantly follow closely the extraction of gas from Troll, among other things. also in order to ensure the maximum extent of oil extraction from the field. It's an ongoing issue that the Oil Directorate is following. These considerations are important socio-economic considerations that we as an oil nation take, but there is no consideration that will necessarily be equally interesting for buyers in a liberalised gas market. Let me also mention that in the future Norway will use almost 30 pst. of our gas resources for oilfield injection in order to increase the extraction rate of oil and thus also get more out of the total petroleum resources on Norwegian soil. Our management system currently ensures a fair balance between what we sell of Norwegian gas and what we need gas for injection to increase the value of our total oil extraction. It is also a good example of a comprehensive integrated resource management of oil and gas that we would like to keep on the Norwegian side. While safeguarding our interests as a major energy producer, it is natural for us to analyse carefully the changes in the European energy market and assess the situation on a continuous basis. I feel comfortable with the processes and the dialogue we have with the EU in this area. For the EU, we should be able to act as a safe and stable supplier of energy. But let us – as I also mentioned at the outset – not underestimate the fact that there may be different interests to care for, and we need a stronger insight and understanding of our role as a producer of energy. It will be a starting point for our further work. EU energy relations are also important in areas other than gas and oil exports. Part of the most important legislation in the EU energy sector has already been implemented in Norway as part of the EEA Agreement. We also participate in the EU's energy efficiency and renewable energy programmes as well as in research and development programmes. Cooperation in these areas works well. Let me mention that with regard to the power market, the Nordic countries have already opened up their markets much more than is the case in the EU. Thus, in this area, it is the EU that is now undergoing a development that Norway has undergone. Currently, the EU is considering an extension of its tax regime to include gas, coal and electricity. It is difficult to see good and consistent environmental justification for aspects of the proposal that are at issue in the EU, including: why coal will be subject to a lower CO2 tax than gas in relation to the environmental impact of the energy carriers. Through that type of proposal, the competitive relationship between different energy carriers can be affected in an unfortunate way and in a way that does not promote the use of more environmentally friendly energy sources. It is also a challenge for Norway to ensure that hydropower is valued in line with other renewable energy sources. It is a theme that concerns the Government in the Energy Policy Dialogue with the EU. I agree with those who believe that our relationship with the European Union in the field of energy is important and essential. In the dialogue we have, and which we will continue to pursue in the future, the pursuit of our fundamental national interests is the aim of the Government's work all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e161	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e164	Let me first say that I am pleased that the Council of State underlines Norway's important role as a major energy nation in Europe. This is particularly important given that both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister had very little influence on this issue. State Council Arnstad has now announced that Norway will take new rounds with the EU on the Gas Directive. She has further warned that in that process you exclude no options. In other words, the veto question is in the back. In the Right's view, we are now faced with a choice. The question is whether we should continue to fight to preserve old structures, whether we should negotiate exemptions and transitional arrangements, or whether we should recognise that the gas market is opening up and spending time and energy on developing a strategy for Norway's position in a liberalised market. On the right, there is no evidence from the Council of State that there are elements of the Gas Directive that suggest that new rounds of threat of veto need to be carried out. It is true, as the Council of State says, that Norway is part of the implementation group, and it is also possible to discuss how the various elements should be interpreted. My first question to the Council of State is: What are the consequences if Norway actually uses the right to veto in connection with the Gas Directive? The second question is: What are the alliance partners that Norway might want to have in order to bring about changes to the current gas directive?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e179	I've been talking about Norway's important role as a major energy producer all the time I've been a State Council. It is said that something occupies a state council that is responsible for the oil and energy side in this country. With regard to further discussions on the Gas Directive, the Government has stated that the Government's objective is that the Directive should be included, if we can also be sure of the possibilities to ensure a fully-fledged resource management system. That is what we now want to discuss with the European Union. In this context, I have said that when one goes into that kind of discussion, no options can be excluded, nor veto. But that does not mean that the government has at this point taken a decision on such a question. What we now want to do is to enter into discussions with the EU with a view to clarifying the directive which ensures adequate resource management on a Norwegian pedestal in the future. I mentioned three examples in my article, which I think are important examples of good resource management. I mentioned supply contracts, I mentioned the allocation process, and I also mentioned those aspects of the Norwegian resource management system that we constantly have as a continuous balance, for example. in the case of off-takes from a Troll gas field. These are things that I think are important, and which have nothing to do with the EU liberalising its own gas market, because it must have the freedom to do so. But it has to do with our entire integrated production system, i.e. the upstream activity that takes place from the landing terminal on the continent up to the Norwegian oil fields.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e186	There are few areas where Norway is more dependent on developments in the EU than on energy. It is completely independent of the kind of connection we have to the EU, simply because most of the oil we produce is sold to the EU countries, and all the gas we produce is sold to the EU countries. This means that how these countries organise their energy markets with gas directives, licensing directives, taxes on coal, subsidies on coal, taxes on oil, etc. is crucial for us anyway. It is therefore essential for us to try as far as possible to influence developments in the energy sector in the EU. Then there is a new area that is becoming increasingly important to us, and that is the power market, because the EU is now opening up its power market and will have an open trade in power that will resemble what we have had in the Nordic countries for some time, and because Norway will increasingly depend on importing power from the European countries. We are already importing from Sweden and Denmark and will gradually import more and more from countries like Germany. The problem is that there is mainly coal power and, to some extent, nuclear power we import, and that the large availability of coal power in Europe helps to reduce prices, thus preventing the development of more environmentally friendly renewable energy, and for example. gas power. In order to limit the use of coal power, it is necessary to develop instruments. One such instrument may be charges. It's been hard to do. Another instrument is allowances. Norway has been committed to developing quotas in our own climate policy. It was adopted by Stortinget last year. In Kyoto, quota principles were laid down, and now the Nordic EU countries, Sweden, Finland and Denmark, have opted for quotas. My question is: does the Government want and will the Government take the initiative to follow up on a Nordic and, eventually, a European system of allowances for CO2 emissions, so that we can limit coal power?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e197	I agree with the representative of Stoltenberg that we are dependent on mutual and good dialogue with the EU in the field of energy. I also agree that we are dependent on continually following what is happening on the continent in this context, not least because we will actually be one of the major energy suppliers of the EU area in the years to come. These are important values for us, and they are also important in the European context. In the case of the power market, the European electricity market is being opened up. This opening will result in a greater exchange of power from Northern Europe into the Nordic markets, including to Norway, through the existing transmission links and the cables to be installed. It will primarily apply in the relationship of Northern Europe. Indeed, there are certain physical constraints on the electricity market that are not found on the oil market in the same way. When such a situation occurs, it is all the more important to praise the environmental costs of the various energy carriers. You have to be able to give them the right price. I agree with the representative of Stoltenberg that it is necessary to praise coal for the actual pollution that coal power contributes to. This may be done, as the representative was involved, both by production charges and by allowances system. I have noticed that the social democracies in the Nordic countries have proposed some kind of quota system. It's not something that I want to dismiss, but a problem related to a quota system is that fossil energy carriers will go a lot between them. I also think it is important to ensure that nuclear power is captured and that nuclear power is not given an unprofitable competitive advantage in a European context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e207	The central party is similar to SV, contrary to the EEA Agreement, but they both probably admit that the majority is not on our side in this matter. After all, the centre party has also accepted to sit in a government which accepts its basis for the EEA Agreement. The first question is a little more general and addresses the problem that the EEA agreement undermines its 1994 no. This has one view, most recently in the treatment of the veterinary agreement, but also in other matters, such as the use of the drug. Rena Karton, who is an illustration that we have partly lost our right to self-determination. I would like the Council of State to say something about how you intend to use the freedom of action that we have. the right of veto, in relation to other cases. The Gas Directive has several things in mind, and I am satisfied with the scheme that the Government has presented in relation to a possible veto once in a while, but when it applies to other matters in this area, for example. the power-exchange problem that Stoltenberg had in mind, how will the Government show that it actually has freedom of action in the energy and environmental fields? My other question is on the Adultås Declaration and how one should be able to fulfill what is written there. In the Adult Declaration, the industry is promised access to power on reasonable terms and that one should have a review of the Energy Act with a view to better social control and management of hydropower resources. Some industrial leaders claim that this is not possible with the EEA Agreement. I would like to ask the Council of State for an assessment of the possibilities for trade freedom in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e214	It is true that I should have wanted the bulk of the population to think about the time in 1992 when they dealt with the EEA Agreement, but as some others here in the Chamber, I have to live with the fact that the EEA exists and has been adopted. As the Central Party's parliamentary leader also pointed out earlier today, the Central Party accepts that a political majority in the United Kingdom has adopted this agreement, and we have accepted to govern on that basis in the Declaration of Adults. As for the use of veto rights, I get to say as Gro Harlem Brundtland said in 1992, and as Knut Vollebæk said a few weeks ago, that we haven't negotiated a veto right to not be able to use it. I'm not going to shoot in what specific areas it might happen. As far as the energy field is concerned, I have pointed out in my speech that I think we deserve a continuous conversation with the EU. I think that is important for Norway. It has not been said that we have similar interests in all areas, and I also feel that I have underlined that. We have a little bit of different roles. Creating an understanding of Norway’s role as a large EU energy producer is a very important task for Norwegian authorities. With regard to the competitive conditions of the powerful industry, I would just like to comment briefly that the Government's assumption is that the industry currently has contracts at competitive prices in relation to international conditions, and we also believe that the industry should be able to have in the future, the EEA or not the EEA.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e225	The Council of State gave an important recognition that Norway cannot prevent the EU from liberalising its gas market. At the same time, it is recognised that the EU is important for Norway. In other words, Norway has to deal with a liberalised gas market. The question is, how do we relate to this market? When I hear the Council of State, I hear a defensive Council of State that is primarily concerned with preserving existing structures in a changed reality. The right is concerned that we are now going to look at what opportunities the liberalized market gives us. How can we now aggressively position ourselves in relation to a new reality that we know is coming? We fear that Norway will quickly come back if we are to use our forces and resources to fight to preserve the existing structures. I am pleased that the Council of State says that the aim is to implement the Gas Directive, but at the same time I hear the Council of State saying that veto is not excluded, and that is serious, especially when one cannot prove what is the problem of the existing Directive. I asked the Council of State two concrete questions. I did not get a response to any of them. The first question was: What are the consequences of a possible Norwegian veto on the Gas Directive? And the second question is: What alliance partners do Norway have in the EU to change the current gas directive; who will support Norway's case in the EU to change it? I think the Council's lack of response really speaks for itself.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e234	I am surprised that the representative Sanner is surprised that I am saying that we have to deal with a liberalised gas market in Europe. I've been saying that all along. And I have also said that the EU must have full freedom to adopt what they want for the internal organisation of the gas market on the continent. It has not been the government's concern in this matter. What is the matter with the Government is what is related to the Norwegian gas production system and the entire Norwegian gas management system, and there are upstream pipelines – there we got a bit on the road in relation to the discussions about the gas directive, but we think there is reason to discuss further aspects of it. We want to see how parts of our resource management system are in relation to the directive and discuss it before we take a final position on the directive. The representative, Sanner, does not hear any defensive state council. The representative, Sanner, hears a Council of States which is constantly assessing developments in the EU in this area, which is closely monitoring the EU's position on energy and which has a continuous dialogue with the EU. As far as the consequences of a veto are concerned, they are quite clear in the EEA context. As parts of the EEA Agreement are suspended for a period of time, new negotiations between the EU and the vetoing country arise. It is generally defined in the EEA Agreement. This applies regardless of the area where you put your veto. What else will be the consequences of it exactly in the energy field and how far they will go, we haven't gone into it because it's not the government's purpose to veto it. The government's aim is to incorporate the directive if we can get through discussions a satisfactory clarification of the future gas management system on Norwegian soil.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e243	The Council of State said she would not dismiss the proposal on quotas for CO2 emissions in Europe. It is better than to say that she goes against, but it is definitely not an offensive attitude. So I hear, like the representative Sanner, a defensive state council in the sense that there is an urgent need to do something about climate problems, and there is an urgent need to do something about a common environmental policy in Europe, not least when we have a common power market. Quotas are set out in the Kyoto Agreement, quotas are set by a large majority here in the United Kingdom last spring, and quotas are now supported by the governments of the Nordic EU countries by the recent decisions in Copenhagen. And then it's not the Norwegian government's job to say that it won't dismiss this, then it's the Norwegian government's job to say that here you have a unique opportunity, here you should follow up at all levels towards Europe and our Nordic neighbours in order to try to get concrete instruments that can limit the production of coal power and thus also the emissions of CO2. Then it doesn't keep saying that you don't want to abolish quotas, then you have to have a more offensive attitude. And if the government doesn't understand it, I feel confident that the Storting will tell the Government that it should understand it. With regard to the Gas Directive, our position is that the Government can take some time to assess and review the issues it wants to address, including trying to clarify what it considers unclear in the Directive, and clarifications that are for the benefit of Norway. But in it it is not that the Workers' Party will support anything veto, or that the Workers' Party believes that you have all the world's time. So with that clarification, it's okay for us that the government thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e252	Let me first say that I think it is positive that the Workers' Party supports the Government's wish for further discussions with the European Union in this area. I think that is important and also sensible in view of both Norwegian interests and the large values associated with these questions. It strikes me that if I do not agree with the representatives Stoltenberg or Sanner, I am per. definition defensive! It seems like that's what the definition of being defensive here in the hall right now. That's a definition that I'm not really into. I just want to say it. I am also concerned about how one can include the environmental costs of different energy carriers in a power market where one has an increasing degree of power exchange between countries. It's important. I think there are different ways to do it, and Stoltenberg mentioned the sea in its first line that it can be done both through production charges and through quota system. What I am uncertain about in relation to the proposals that have been made, among other things. social democracy is how we are going to manage to capture nuclear power, which one cannot, of course, set a price in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, but which nevertheless is a source of energy that I believe many of us will not want a large part of the Norwegian power market.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e261	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e264	Allow me to say that the Minister of Foreign Affairs' European Declaration was marked by the close past of the Minister of Foreign Affairs as a diplomat. I understand that diplomacy is needed when defending and giving political no-one direction to the government's policy vis-à-vis the European Union. It will probably be extra difficult when you have a no-majority in the people and have to satisfy a yes-majority in the Storting, while advertising that you're a no-government. My view is that there is too much diplomacy and too little policy, and that the clear no profile of the parties in the EU fight has disappeared behind an adaptable government phase. The EU is a real power factor in Europe, to which Norway must have an active, but also advocating relationship, not least in order to follow the developments that have an impact on the EEA Agreement. It is against that background that I want a more active Europe debate, but let me stress that it does not mean a new membership debate. Here the verdict of the people is clear: they do not want to become a member of the EU. For me, none of the so-called new elements such as the euro, Europol, enlargement of the EEA Agreement and security and defence policy are new compared to the 1994 EU vote. The debate on monetary union was at the heart of the EU debate before the referendum in 1994, and the issue of a permanent link to the euro has undoubtedly reopened this debate. Although we only want intergovernmental links, it is a concern from a no point of view to be too close to euro cooperation without knowing what we have to give back. What we know is that our interlocutor is a central bank without political control, where the overall objective is the lowest price increase possible. If we get too close to the euro, we will no longer be able to adjust our exchange rate based on our own economic situation or focus on other policy objectives, such as: full employment. A close link with the euro will cost. What, nobody knows. We who have lived for a while know that the medal always has a backside. All the problems have not been solved in this country, but after all, the experience of standing outside the European Union has been quite good, despite all the gloomy predictions. In my opinion, we have great opportunities to correct mistakes and shortcomings, in fact greater than if we had been members of the EU and had to ask the EU first. In order to ensure that we still have our own framework for our society, we are dependent on a government that has an active policy on Europe issues, while at the same time knowing where the borders go. The government must also use the independence we have acquired on the basis of the no of the people, in such a way that one, for example. counter unemployment and other bad social conditions. This government has a rather long way to go before it has shown its independence and its no-profile.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e283	The Foreign Minister’s statement tells us that the Government is pursuing an active European policy, based on the 1994 referendum on EU membership. This active European policy spans a wide range of areas: the EEA Agreement, cooperation in the Western Union and NATO and efforts in the OSCE, to mention some areas. In the past, the concept of active European policy was used identically with EU membership. Today's debate shows that the term now has some other content, yes a more correct content, and that is good. For the Christian People's Party, an active European policy is part of a strong international and global commitment to cohesion, sustainable development, conflict resolution and peace. This global perspective includes attention to our neighbourhoods. Developments in European countries and cooperation between them are of great importance to our country. It is important to have good information about what is happening and to engage in political dialogue with these countries. One area mentioned in the statement was the forthcoming negotiations with the EU on agricultural products. For Norway, it is important to create alliances on agricultural policy in a different context, namely the forthcoming WTO round. Norway has both conflicting and conflicting interests with EU countries. The EU decides on Agenda 2000 and the forthcoming agricultural reform will have an impact on Norway’s ability for alliances with the WTO, but also through the RAC scheme for processed agricultural products, as we find in the EEA Agreement. A living agriculture that produces safe food is also one of the most important environmental policy areas we can focus on, because agricultural policy includes land use and sustainable use of land. We need a WTO agreement that provides good conditions for agriculture also in Norway and in the northern regions. Contact and dialogue with the EU and European countries are desirable prior to the WTO round to examine the possibilities of alliances in these negotiations. The Government is accused of operating EU alignment through the EEA Agreement. I thought we had the EEA Agreement just to develop a harmonised single market legislation. At the same time, I am pleased with the Government's efforts for greater transparency and information on the work on EEA matters. Norway participates early in the process of new legislation through expert groups, and this is followed up with contacts at both official and political level. The Government will also support efforts to strengthen contacts with political parties, non-governmental organisations and trade unions. This is positive. In this context, I would actually recommend to the Government to consider providing support for the operation of a contact office in Brussels for non-governmental organisations. It could facilitate their ability to participate in European networks and promote Norwegian views. I also agree with the Government when it emphasises the promotion of Norwegian interests and needs, using the right of veto in the EEA if necessary. This may, in my view, be particularly necessary in matters relating to the environment, health and safety. Today, we can see that Norway is doing well without EU membership. The debate today shows broad agreement on this platform. The debate has also shown the Christian People's Party before the 1994 referendum that active European policy based on the EEA Agreement and non-membership is both possible and desirable. No one needs to doubt Norway’s willingness to contribute to a European policy on security, the environment, research and education, among others. We must constantly consider how Norway should and can take care of its interests, but there is currently no need for a new membership debate. The representative of Blankenburg today called for some strategic vision from the Government. The Norwegian people had a strategic vision in 1994. On this basis, Norway must participate in the political dialogue, ensure Norwegian interests and promote issues that are important to Norway. Specific actions and attention in the north, management of marine resources and energy issues. An important debate for Norway is linked to developments in security and defence policy. The Christian People's Party will closely follow the British-French initiative and its implications for NATO's role and strategic plan. Today, this seems to be a very dynamic process, where the results cannot be predicted entirely. The Christian People's Party has viewed NATO and transatlantic relations as crucial to Norway's security. Now it may seem that NATO can have new tasks, and the debate on the contracting entity and division of labour is on the agenda. In this situation, the Christian People's Party will work to maintain a transatlantic defence cooperation where Norway is an active player. In our view, the Government must work to ensure the defence policy area of action in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e304	One of the most important questions we face, to which we must answer yes or no, is whether Norway should take an active part in the formulation of EU foreign and security policy. Although EU cooperation will continue to be essentially a cooperation between independent nations and has fully demonstrated that there is the best common response to challenges and joint tasks, it should also be in Norwegian interest that the EU succeeds in enhanced efforts in areas of peace and security, economics and the environment. Therefore, as non-member countries, we should have a clear strategy for how we can influence the decision-making process in the EU, especially in these areas. Based on the EEA Agreement, the most comprehensive agreement Norway has ever concluded – and I had the pleasure of being the case rapporteur when it was dealt with by Stortinget in 1992 – I believe that this will be possible. In other words, we must work for an agreement that ensures a close relationship with EU security and foreign policy cooperation, knowing that EU cooperation in this area will speed up especially as a result of the enlargement process. The process of European integration and enlargement is not only taking place within the EU, it is also being carried out too fully in NATO, and I personally welcome with great interest the presentation that the Foreign Minister will later give to the Storting on these issues. The US position on this process has been so far positive, but I would also add something contradictory – positive in the sense that the United States will need a strong EU that can involve the countries of Central and Eastern Europe in Euro-Atlantic cooperation, as the previous speakers pointed out, somewhat contradictory because it is obviously not possible today to know how cohesive the EU will act in foreign and security policy. To date, the United States, like Norway, is based initially on the fact that NATO is the main defence and security anchoring. In other words, the United States has stressed the need to address defence and security issues in NATO. Not least the new role that NATO has been given in the implementation of peacekeeping and conflict prevention missions on behalf of the United Nations and the OSCE is clear evidence of this. NATO has long since laid the foundations for cooperation with countries outside NATO through the cooperation of the North Atlantic Cooperation Council and the Partnership for Peace. It is important that NATO's credibility and effectiveness are maintained in the development phase of Europe now. At the same time, however, there is a coordination of foreign and security policy in the EU, which for Norway must mean that we must find more knives to devote our interests to than just NATO membership. Of course, we can do this by providing us with more understanding and support directly into the EU system, or by further developing Nordic and Nordic-Baltic cooperation. We can face the situation where NATO will change its character and have two decision-making centres, Brussels and Washington. As a non-EU member, Norway may risk not being fully involved in NATO’s further development process, and in other words being placed on the page, being marginalised. It is therefore important to be able to contribute to the establishment of arrangements that are satisfactory for us as a country, if we succeed in a work that could affect the European security structure. If not, it will be an increasing disadvantage to be without full membership of the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e321	I have noticed to my delight that environmental issues have been frequently mentioned in today's Europe debate. That's important, because this is a question where we need international cooperation. Norway cooperates closely with the EU in the field of environmental protection. We have conflicting environmental policy interests in a number of cases. Through the EEA Agreement, we participate at expert level in the design of EU legislation in the fields of energy, industry, transport and waste. Norway and the EU have traditionally different approaches to the design of environmental rules. With a high focus on target management and economic instruments, the EU has traditionally tended to focus more on technological and detailed rules. However, we see in many contexts that Norwegian views are given importance. At the more general level, sectoral integration of environmental protection is taking place both in Norway and in the EU. In this area and in the development of planning tools, there is extensive and fruitful cooperation between us and the EU. There are several areas where Norway has gone beyond the EU in environmental matters. An example of this is the question of genetically modified organisms – so-called GMOs. On the basis of a clear mandate from Stortinget, Norway has, on the basis of the precautionary principle, a very restrictive policy for the authorisation of GMOs. The EU Commission has shown little willingness to apply the precautionary principle in individual cases. However, this has led to strong reactions from opinion in several EU countries. Several Member States have closed the moratorium on certain products and the EU Parliament has called for a common moratorium until the revision of the Directive on the deliberate release of genetically modified organisms has been completed. Signals from the discussion show that several EU countries want rules that are in line with those adopted by Norway as early as 1993. A broader risk assessment, a requirement for products to be socially useful and for the use of technology to be ethically sound, are just requirements that now appear to be emerging in the EU. The Government has followed up the June 1997 decision on antibiotic resistance by prohibiting genetically modified food and feed containing such genes, and has proposed a ban in international fora. It is gratifying that the EU Scientific Committees recommended for the first time in the autumn to say no to a genetically modified potato because it contained an antibiotic resistance gene. So far, according to Norway, the Commission’s proposal on the labelling of genetically modified products in the EU has been too weak. However, the recent informal signals we have received indicate that many EU countries are in favour of mandatory labelling close to what Norway has proposed. In that case, it will be an important victory both for the environment and for consumers across Europe. Over several years, there has been a conflict about patenting biotechnological inventions in the EU. In Norway, there is cross-political opposition to the granting of patents on life, i.e. patent live organisms. I cannot see that this issue is satisfactorily resolved in the compromise reached in June between the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers. The Directive will be circulated in a short time at wide consultation in Norway. As you know, the Netherlands has filed a complaint with the European Court of Justice against the Patent Directive and has requested its annulment. As the Foreign Minister said in the statement, we are now considering whether Norway should also use the access we have to express our position to the Court of Justice. It will be particularly important to clarify the Dutch claim that the Directive is contrary to the Convention on Biological Diversity. In some areas, we in Norway want to go faster than the EU, although the direction is the same. This applies, for example: the chemical field. Norway has stricter legislation than the EU, for example: in the case of chemicals which may be carcinogenic. Norway is, in particular, a driver of increasing the EU level of protection in Norway. At the same time, we are working closely with the EU on the EU's preventive chemical regime, which is one of the world's most comprehensive systems for the systematic provision and assessment of information on the health and environmental risks of chemicals. The aim of this work is to continuously improve the environmental standards applicable in the EEA region. Also in terms of air quality, we now have through St.prp. No 1 for 1998-99 laid down stricter requirements than those of the EU on air quality, and also stricter than those which appear to emerge from the current treatment in the EU. Climate challenges are among the issues we have discussed in our meetings with the EU presidency, with the Commission and in bilateral meetings with different Member States. The importance of such contacts was again underlined during the Prime Minister's visit to Brussels and Bonn last week. The call for closer cooperation that has now come from the Commission and the Presidency are positive signals. In the future in climate negotiations, it is essential to put in place the elements needed for the entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol. This concerns in particular the so-called Kyoto mechanisms. Since the Kyoto Conference, Norway has cooperated closely with countries in the so-called Umbrella Group, i.e. USA, Canada, Japan, Iceland, etc., to develop an international regulatory framework for these mechanisms. It will be absolutely necessary to reach agreement between this group and the EU on these issues and to reach agreement with the developing countries. Here, what has been said by the European Union can be an important bridge builder role for Norway. Both the EU and Norway are largely based on national instruments in climate policy. It has been shown that the establishment of instruments at EU level takes time, and this has not yet been politically possible on the charging side. That is why it is very exciting that several EU countries have now put green taxes on the agenda, as we have done here in Norway. The last example is Germany’s work on minimum levels of energy taxes. This work will not be less exciting when Germany has leadership in the EU. I therefore look forward to discussing these issues in the near future, both with my German colleague and with the EU Environment Commissioner. All Nordic Environment Ministers have seen it as very important to continue the close cooperation we have traditionally had in the Nordic region in the field of the environment, although our countries have chosen different ways in the area of EU membership. This is followed, inter alia, by: by meeting the Nordic Environment Ministers in front of the EU Councils of Ministers. There, we are reviewing the main items on the agenda together and exchanging views. This close Nordic cooperation has also been important to address new key environmental issues in the EU context and towards EU countries. Together with the other Nordic countries, Norway has protested at the emissions of technetium from Sellafield. Other examples of this include the integration of the environment into all sectors and product-oriented environmental inputs. Through active efforts also in other key forums, Norway is contributing to the environmental development of Europe. Norway has been a driving force in acid rain work under the auspices of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, ECE, and we have a central role in maritime pollution, in particular in: OSPAR and the North Sea Conferences. In the field of nature and culture, the Council of Europe and UNESCO are important bodies. The OECD has gained an increasingly central role in the discussion of overall environmental policy priorities and, through globalisation, the WTO's work at the intersection of trade and the environment will become crucial for the practical environmental policy both in Europe and in the rest of the world. Norway has bilateral environmental cooperation with several candidate countries of the EU, and otherwise participates in extensive environmental protection cooperation with Eastern Europe under the auspices of the Environment for Europe process. The ECE Environment Ministers decided last June to strengthen environmental cooperation with the former Soviet republics of Eastern Europe, the Caucasus and Central Asia. This cooperation aims at strengthening environmental protection institutions and legislation, integrating environmental considerations into business and financing environmental protection projects in these countries. I believe that Norwegian contributions to international efforts in this area are very important and should be seen in the context of the Norwegian Presidency of the OSCE. The Aarhus Convention on the Right to Environmental Information, adopted this summer, will be a very important instrument in the development of environmental policy in Europe. For both within the EU, in Eastern Europe and in Russia, increased transparency, insight and public participation are a prerequisite for bringing environmental policy forward. Environmental problems are global. It is therefore important that we work together across both borders and continents to solve them. Norway, with its cooperation with the EU, has a unique chance of combining close and active European cooperation with the ability to play a bridge builder role in relation to other parts of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e360	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e363	The Kyoto Protocol is a first step towards limiting greenhouse gas emissions. The agreement is historic, because it is the first time an agreement has been concluded that provides for legally binding numerical commitments on greenhouse gas emission reductions. European countries have undertaken different emission obligations, and many of the measures to meet these obligations need to be implemented nationally. However, in addition to national measures, the Kyoto Protocol opens up so that countries can jointly implement emission reductions with the greatest reduction in effort. This can be done through joint implementation and emissions trading. This makes it possible to achieve greater emission reductions than to rely solely on the country-specific implementation of measures. In further work on the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, Norway should cooperate actively with other European countries. The social democratic parties in the Nordic region have been in favour of closer Nordic and European cooperation in this area. As a first step towards a broader European solution, the Workers' Party believes that Nordic countries should work towards a common emissions trading system. In this way, the North can go ahead in the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol. What are the views of the Minister for the Environment on the establishment of such cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e368	We have absolutely the same view of the Kyoto Protocol as a historical document. The most important thing we can cooperate on now, not least internally in Europe, is to contribute to the entry into force of the Protocol. In this respect, I am very pleased with the invitation I have received, both from the German Environment Minister and from the Environment Commissioner, who asks Norway to try to play a bridge builder role between the EU and the Umbrella Group in order to reach an agreement so that the protocol can come into force. I think one of the most important things we have to do then is to continue the dialogue we have had with the EU for a long time, in order to be able to find other ways of controlling quota trade and joint implementation than to set a ceiling. It is one of the major challenges we face in relation to the EU. I also think it is important to look at how to manage to find ways to implement a kind of common pricing in terms of the environmental costs of greenhouse gas emissions on the energy side, whether it takes place through quota trading where the allowances have a price, or it takes place through charges. The challenge with the proposal that has been put on the table is, as the Minister for Oil and Energy has previously said from this chair, to ensure that we have a system that does not give a competitive advantage to nuclear power. I think we have a common desire for that, but it is a temporary problem and a challenge with the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e375	The State Council of Flanders had an interesting review of differences and similarities between the EU and Norway, and in which areas Norway is better than the EU. It is good to hear that the Norwegian State Council is talking to its Nordic colleagues and others within the EU system. But where are the offensive initiatives? Norway has held different positions in relation to the EU in relation to climate negotiations. But that doesn't mean it's not possible to find common points of contact. A valuable initiative has been launched by the Nordic Social Democrats to establish a Nordic greenhouse gas quota market. That initiative has the support of the Right. In other words, there is a majority in this Chamber to oblige the Government to work to establish a Nordic market for greenhouse gas emissions. I record that both the Council of State Arnstad and the Council of State Flanders have a defensive attitude to this and are more concerned with looking for the problems than seeing the possibilities. It points to, among others: that nuclear power must not be given a competitive advantage. However, a CO2 tax does not affect nuclear power either. In other words, a system of a CO2 charge would work in the same way as a system of tradable allowances. My question is: will the Council of State follow the initiative now taken by the Nordic Social Democrats, who have also received the Right-wing support?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e382	As the representative, Mr Sanner, would have noticed, I highlighted not only discussions with my Nordic colleagues, but also with my colleagues throughout the European Union. It's a collaboration that I really appreciate. Nor do I think it is right to dismiss what is happening in the area of the environment from Norway, claiming that it is defensive and without attempts to influence. I think we should be able to say that, among other things, sees clear results of pressures from, among others. Norway with regard to developments within the EU in the field of genetically modified organisms. There is no doubt that, in recent years, the EU has approached the Norwegian position both in terms of labelling rules and in terms of setting requirements, among others. to ethics and social benefits in legislation, and not least the proposal for a patent on life has become better than it was initially, although it is still a piece before we are satisfied. I think I must be allowed to claim that Norway, in cooperation with some EU countries, has been a driver for this. I'm also a little surprised that it's said that it's defensive when you're actually asking a question in relation to the proposal that's on the table about a Nordic quota system. I think it would be a very big problem if we set up a system that will give nuclear power priority. That doesn't mean we're not going to discuss this. That doesn't mean, of course, that we're not going to go into this and see if this can develop in a way that gives us a reasonable environmental pricing on both greenhouse gas emissions and on radioactivity. As long as such a proposal could lead to a cost to the environmental impacts of energy and greenhouse gas emissions, I think that is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e391	I must say, to my surprise, the Minister for the Environment spoke enthusiastically about Germany, which had now taken on the leadership of environmental policy, and especially blatantly blatantly blatant green taxes – she thought it was good, of course. Germany was deprived of all honour in 1994 when it also talked about environmental issues in relation to membership. But it's great that a host of experience and thought that others too are concerned about environmental policy. When it comes to the issue that has been raised in the past, both from the Right and the Labour Party, I still feel that the Minister for the Environment is not just unclear, but does not want to be involved in this with emission allowances. One has been in favour of it in an international context, and it is an initiative of the social democratic parties in the Nordic countries – they work both in the Nordic countries and from the Nordic countries towards the EU – about this. So it had to be easy for the Minister for the Environment to say:It is clear that we are going to follow this up, all the problems that have to arise are going to be taken by now, and one must be in dialogue with the other countries if one wants this to happen. I hope the Council of State can say that she will work for this, because the most important thing for us all must be to reduce emissions. Then I have another question, which concerns an interview with the Minister for the Environment, who was in Bergen's Official Journal on 16 January, after the veterinary agreement had been submitted by the Government – an agreement that Guro Fjellanger was behind, even though she was probably a bit behind, after what we have said earlier here. The agreement has been signed. Then I ask about the meaning of her saying in the interview: ‘I am a fundamental opponent of the entire agreement. There shall be no doubt as to that." What is it that will achieve by being part of an agreement, and then go out and argue against it after the Storting has given its agreement to the same agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e405	The representative of Frøiland requested, among others: the same enthusiasm for the German leadership during the EU debate in 1994. I have to be allowed to say that at that time there was not yet a social democratic government that put forward a number of good proposals for green taxes, especially in the field of energy. There might be some reason why I think that Germany is now a better example than they might have been at that particular part of the environment. I have actually said that I think the proposal that has been put on the table on a common Nordic quota market is exciting. It is important that we in a common Nordic energy market find a way to get an environmentally sound pricing of energy. But I have to say that I think it's a little eye-catching that it's taken so easily at the problem that it's also nuclear in the same market. My errand is not to depreciate the allowance system. My honour is to say that we need a dialogue on how to ensure that all types of environmentally hazardous energy, whether it is greenhouse gas emissions or nuclear power, meet a cost in a common energy market. It's important in the Nordic region in the first place. It will be important at European level gradually. As far as the veterinary agreement is concerned, there is no doubt about what my attitude towards it has been. At the same time, I am dealing with a majority in Stortinget, and I believe that what the Government has presented, a veterinary agreement with the national action package, was something I could stand for, and so have I in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e414	The EU system as a system is not exactly an environmental project. It can only be established. Among other things, in relation to the free movement of goods, this leads to an extreme increase in transport and thus a large increase in, among other things. CO2 emissions. In fact, it is a little surprising that the EU is looking at ambitious targets in relation to climate negotiations. Not least when one sees this in relation to the role of Norway in the context of the same problem, it is strange to hear that the Minister for the Environment places such emphasis on the fact that Norway is actually a transitory country. At least we can't do that in this area. So here the Minister for the Environment has a challenge. Then my question becomes no. 1: How should the Minister for the Protection of the Environment advise that Norway should be the country of the lead in its desire to do so when it comes to the climate problem? The EEA Agreement grants Norway a special right of veto and thus a freedom of action that EU members do not have. This has been stressed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the past. The question is whether the court will be used. There are many possibilities ahead, not least in issues such as the environment, health and safety. We are talking about the food make-up directive, the baby food directive, the directive on the labelling of genetic products and the directive on patents in life, which was also discussed by the Minister for the Environment. A veto against such directives will highlight the most challenging features of EU rules in the internal market, namely that the environment and health are subordinate to the objective of free movement of goods. The right of veto can be an effective driving force in the European environmental battle, because it allows the EU to support environmental opinion internally. Will the Minister for the Environment support the use of the right of veto and freedom of action?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e423	Let me first say that with regard to the ambitious objectives that the EU has taken on in the Kyoto Protocol, it will be seen that when it breaks down on individual countries, this picture is very different. One will find countries with much stronger commitments than Norway has, but one will also find countries with lower commitments than Norway has. The image may not therefore be as uniform as the representative gives the impression. When it comes to how to become a country of choice, for example: in relation to climate action, I would say that the importance of both doing things at home and contributing to the entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol will be among the two most important tasks ahead of us. From the Norwegian Government, we presented a big message with proposals for a number of measures that the Stortinge essentially joined four months after the Kyoto Conference. As far as I know, Norway was among the very first, if not the first country to concretise the instruments to be followed up at home. On the other hand, we have also arranged for us to find a solution that will enable us to put in place the so-called Kyoto mechanisms. We know that without them being in place, and without them being regulated in a qualitative way, we risk that the protocol will not come into force. It is my hope and my belief that Norway can contribute to a dialogue between the EU and other actors that will enable us to find a solution to these issues. As far as the right of veto is concerned, it has been said from this interlocutor earlier, both by Gro Harlem Brundtland and by Minister of Foreign Affairs Knut Vollebæk, that the right of veto has been negotiated in order to be used. But it's not a goal in itself to use the veto right. The right of veto shall only be used if there are no other means to reach it, and if there are vital interests at stake. The government has said that if such a situation occurs, the veto is there to be used. But to advance on what decisions it will be relevant, I will not.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e436	There is a relevant concern from the Council of State on the issue of making nuclear power more competitive in relation to other energy sources. However, if this is an objection to establishing a Nordic, possibly a European market for greenhouse gas emissions, then there will also be an objection that can be raised against the Kyoto Protocol as a whole. It is therefore somewhat surprising that the Council of States is raising that concern in relation to establishing a Nordic, possibly a European market, but that the objection is not raised in relation to the Kyoto Protocol itself. This question I think is why we have to solve it in a different context. In other words, we have to try to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. There is a majority in this Chamber which wants the Council of State to take an initiative or follow up the initiative now being taken to establish a Nordic market, possibly also a European market for greenhouse gas emissions. My simple question to the Council of State is: Will it be followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e443	I'm glad we have a common concern about the competitive advantage of nuclear power. I also agree that there is a problem that is also relevant to the Kyoto Protocol as a whole and to the trading of allowances and other economic instruments in relation to greenhouse gas emissions. But I think the issue is particularly relevant in a situation where one has a common energy market. That's why I mentioned it especially here. Of course, I will follow up on the initiative that has been taken. I think it is natural to follow it up, not only on a Nordic level, but also in conversations with my colleagues on a broader basis. It's important to me that we find ways to ensure that the environmental impacts get a price. I think it's just when the market is playing with the environment, that we're reaching the results we need, among other things. to comply with the Kyoto Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e451	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e454	There are some people here today who have said that the central government is running and destroying the no-arguments, and there might be something in it. But there's one argument from the no-side that the government has really proven to be right. It is that we outside the EU have the freedom to choose our own policies. Before the 1994 referendum, it was claimed by EU supporters that we could no longer choose our policy on the environment, on economics, etc., we were so dependent on what is happening in the EU that the most sensible thing was to go in and agree to the decisions there. It was one of the most important arguments put forward from the yes side – the right of self-determination was an illusion. That claim has the center government effectively killed. They have shown that it was fully possible to use the right of self-determination to change economic policy to such an extent that the level of interest rates has been doubled. They have shown that it was possible to use the right of self-determination to provide tax relief to the shipowners and to take the sick pay from them with the lowest wage. They have shown that it was possible to use the freedom to cut in aid for the poorest in the world. And as the previous speaker fully proved, it was possible to use the freedom outside to travel to Kyoto and try to get as little CO2 reduction for Norway as possible, to be a sink instead of a pusher. The right of self-determination was real. It was used to turn policy strongly to the right. By contrast, the fact that the central government uses the freedom of action outside the EU to conduct right-wing policies is not an argument for entering the EU. If a majority of the Norwegian people want a right-wing policy, you could say that they have a democratic right to have it. What was the point of many of us who voted no was that people in Norway should be able to choose the politicians they wanted and get the policy they wanted. But I really don't think there's a majority in Norway for more right-wing policy. I think it is a majority of an economic policy that prioritises more leisure time and new welfare reforms instead of more cash payments and record growth in private consumption. That is why we refused to enter an EU where economic growth and free competition were at the heart of the Treaty. I think it's a majority in Norway for a fairer policy, with more taxation of those who have the most, and better conditions for those who have the least. That is why we said no to an EU where strong forces would have common tax rules. I think it's a majority because we play the active bridge builder, peacebroker and driver role that a small country without strategic interests can play. That is why we refused to enter the EU, which has strategic interests and wants to speak with one voice in international forums. More justice, better environment and an international driving and bridge construction role were my dream of how we should use freedom outside a European Union. The betrayal of these ideals by the centre parties has not made me less convinced that it was right to preserve this right of self-determination, but it has convinced me that there must be others who administer it – others who will use it for what we dreamed of November 28, 1994.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e465	There was no such thing as the yes-page predicted until the referendum in 1994. Both in Norway and in the EU countries, developments have gone as claimed by the no-side. The people's no to EU membership has not isolated us in international cooperation. We participate, and we have a central role because we have great political freedom of action. The people’s refusal to join the Union did not lead to the flagging out of businesses, the closure of jobs and problems for the export industry. On the contrary. Our unemployment rate has been halved to 3 p.m., while the EU countries have an average of 11 p.m. leave. 77 pst. of Norway’s population aged 15–64 were employed in 1997. In the EU, the corresponding figure was 60 pst. They lack about 20 million jobs to get to 5 pst. leave. With us, the export industry has had good years. We've got new evidence that the natural raw materials are worth gold. There have been no allocation problems for fisheries. It is the raw material access and control that ensures the prosperity and settlement along the coast. As a nation, we've earned a huge amount of time off. We have done so without reducing welfare systems and professional rights, as the recipe has been in many EU countries. In the overall economic picture of the nation, it is worth mentioning that the people's no saves us for an EU quota that could be DKK 15 billion this year. I am pleased with the government's emphasis on the need for information, transparency and debate on the ongoing EEA work. I expect that this also applies to the negative effects of the agreement, such as, among other things, The centre party has pointed out. After five years of service, it must be right to pay attention to the worrying aspects of the agreement, and I expect it to be done in the big message that has been notified. There I expect that the cooperation arrangements with the EU that are a consequence of the EEA and which we would have had under the FTA will also be sorted out. I refer to the agreement that Switzerland has negotiated with the EU just now. The main concern of the EEA Agreement is that it leads to rapid adaptation to the membership to which the people said no. This adaptation is also taking place in areas where the EEA Trailers would not be guaranteed to be covered by the Agreement. These include alcohol policy instruments, border controls on food and livestock, legislation in important areas of transport. Those who want to remove the House Bank as a housing policy tool use the EEA Agreement as a weapon. Our main regional policy instrument, the differentiated employer fee, can be exempt because we have called it what it is, and not a normal tax. We are not allowed to provide additional business support in Askvoll and four neighbouring municipalities in Sogn and Fjordane because the EU requires them to limit others who had the same support rate before the EEA Agreement. It is also about over-management of our rural policies when the EEA rules bring with them so many new hygienic requirements for buildings that a large number of small fishing facilities have to be closed down. The closure of Rena Karton was ultimately a direct result of the signing of the SND aid decision in Brussels. It is dramatic when it turns out that the EEA Agreement has deprived us of the opportunity to store such corner stone holdings, and that in so many areas we need to ask Brussels for law. I hope and believe that one of the positive consequences of EU enlargement that comes is that the principle of subsidiarity will be emphasised in a different way from now. It will not be possible to continue with such detailed and strict demands with so many poor countries in the community – I think. Let me mention an experience from the local committee's visit to Estonia. In a municipality we saw their great pride. It was a dairy built up of old equipment from Norway. They made all kinds of milk products in the same room, and the results were great. Those who showed this refused to believe that EU membership would have any impact on this facility. I don't think they would have accepted that someone forced them to close it or build a new one. I hope Norway can work to ensure that the EU and other international bodies work closely with overall rules that ensure health and the environment as well as driving rules for competition but leave the details to local authorities. I think, for example: there is no need to provide for day-to-day leisure for workers and the age limit for newspaper offers established outside the country. The parliamentary involvement built around the EEA Agreement needs to be assessed and developed on an ongoing basis as the changes in EU bodies take place. I see the need for earlier and closer cooperation with the European Parliament when its influence is strengthened, but also with those in Norway who are affected by the rules established in Brussels. It is positive that the Government places such emphasis on this contact. At the same time, I want to ask the question how we can succeed in creating and maintaining equal involvement in processes that take place over such a long time so far, and in which it is so complicated to get insight into.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e484	Europe is and will be important for Norway, and the EU is now undergoing a monthly change in several key areas, including judicial cooperation. International police cooperation has a long tradition. Interpol was established in 1923. EU judicial cooperation is still under development. On 1 October last year, Europol’s police cooperation with the EU countries was established. The aim of this cooperation is to combat and prevent terrorism, illicit drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, illicit trafficking in nuclear materials, money laundering and other forms of gross international crime. These are forms of crime that have reached Norway to a great extent, and that will be our biggest challenge in the future. One has also discussed an extension of the mandate and powers of the Europol Convention for a more effective fight against international terrorism and the fight against trafficking in human beings, which applies to women and children from among others. Eastern Europe and Central Asia, represent alarmingly high numbers. The Danish Minister of Justice, Frank Jensen, has recently called for the strengthening of Europol cooperation so that one is also able to fight serious environmental crime. Europol shall be a liaison, information and analysis programme which shall cooperate with its own national police forces in the Member States. As a result, Europol does not have its own operational strength, but will be able to coordinate police action if police forces in several countries are involved. In support of the operation, a dedicated computer system will be used to store information to help identify criminal offences within Europol’s work area. EU countries have decided to invest in the construction of Europol to combat some of the most important societal problems in Europe today. The EU is in a dynamic development, and what is happening is creating new challenges for Norway. The Labour Party believes that there is a need to reinvigorate European policy. We want the dialogue with the EU on police and judicial cooperation to be followed up with a view to participating in Europol cooperation. Here the Government must take a responsibility. It is a fact that organised international crime is increasingly a challenge. This determines our country, as it establishes other European countries because it is about organized crime across borders. If you're going to get rid of this operation, I'm overestimated that cooperation is the only solution. This has to do with our national security. Against this background, the Labour Party believes that Norway must have an active strategy towards Europol cooperation. The Bondevik government does not seem to understand how important it is for Norway to participate in this cooperation. It is crucial that Norway is not only informed about what is happening, but that we also have a hold on and assess it in relation to our interests. On Tuesday 19 January, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom, Europol, mentions only one sentence and says nothing about Norway's relationship with this cooperation. I note, however, that in yesterday’s Question Time, the Prime Minister said that the Government had the issue of Europol on the agenda, and that it ‘will provide a big message during 1999’ and, after pressure, was prepared to make contact at a political level in the EU with a view to rapid clarification of what is possible at present. This is what I really hope to be done, because we must not sit and wait without taking the initiative, we must be more offensive than the government until now has been. Within the framework of our current association with the European Union, it is necessary to take care of Norway's interests and needs. This is why there is a desire for close cooperation with the EU in a number of areas. We would particularly like Norway to have as close a link as possible to the intergovernmental elements of the EU’s activities, including to the justice sector. The Europol Convention allows for agreements to be concluded with third countries, and it is in this context that Norway has to come on track to see what agreements it is possible to reach. All on April 1st, the plan aims to be fully established, and it shows that we don't have so much time to go on. It is in Norway’s interest that European cooperation works well and that it is aimed at solving the problems and tasks common to the countries of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e505	Let me begin by giving tribute to the Minister for the Environment, who has now confirmed that the Government will take the initiative to follow up the proposal to establish a Nordic and European market for greenhouse gas emissions, although I have to note that it had to follow two lines to the Council of State Arnstad and four lines to the Council of State Fjlangeng before a clear response came, namely, yes, the Government will follow up the wishes of the Storting. The European debate has two important perspectives. First of all, after the fall of the Wall, we experience that Europe is in the cast. East and west are merging, with the opportunities it creates to ensure peace and to develop well-being, and with the challenges facing security policy, the environment and the fight against international crime. Common to these challenges is that the best solutions are shared, and the encouraging thing is that more and more countries are watching this. The second perspective of the debate is the question of how to safeguard Norwegian interests in a situation where Norway is outside the scope of EU political cooperation. I would like to highlight one area in which Norway has major and important interests to care for, but which is at the same time an area in which Norway can contribute to a greater European context, namely the energy sector. At the NHO Annual Conference, Eivind Reiten illustrated Norway’s position as an energy nation as follows: If we merge the EU and Norway, Norway stands for 30 pst. of hydropower production, Norway has 45 pst. of the gas reserve and 75 pst. of the oil reserve, while we have 1 pst. by the population. We have a small population, but we're a big energy nation. There is no doubt that Norway has important interests to attend to. At that time, it is alarming that both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister today only touch on these issues with harelabb, and it is little comfort that the Minister of Energy believes that following and carefully assessing developments is an offensive attitude. Right-wing calls for an offensive government strategy that captures the question of how we can further develop Norway as an energy nation and the question of how Norway can contribute to a European context. This is not just energy and industrial policy; it is also environmental policy to the greatest extent. Norwegian power is environmentally friendly. In addition to our hydropower resources, Norway can supply Europe with environmentally friendly gas and gas power that can replace more polluting coal and oil power. It must be opened for reconnaissance. Among other things, we must: acknowledge that Norwegian gas needs stronger alliance partners if we want the authorities of the large EU countries to create tax regimes that make the environmentally friendly gas competitive compared to coal and nuclear power. It is necessary to soften the resistance to allowing downstream companies to drop onto a Norwegian base. To exemplify: if French companies have interests in the gas being supplied, there will be stronger counter-powers for lobbyists representing other energy sources. The result may be new business opportunities for Norway and reduced greenhouse gas emissions in Europe. You can just like that or you can't like it – the gas market is being liberalized. The question is: shall we recognise that the market is being opened, see the possibilities, position ourselves in relation to them and actively engage in a dialogue on the framework conditions? Or are we going to fight to the last blood drop to keep and maintain national structures intact in a new reality? That is what the debate on the Gas Directive is about, and we have to choose. Obviously, structural changes have a price, but the longer you wait, the higher the price. The result of waiting will be that Norway will come back and be guided rather than have an ambition to participate in and rule. An important objective of the Gas Directive is to bring down the price, a wish you can understand, but at the same time a wish that has a backside for producer countries. But at the same time, there are opportunities here, opportunities to sell more and opportunities to participate in and develop new markets. On the right, there is no evidence that, either today or in the past, serious arguments have been put forward to threaten the veto of Norway and take new rounds with the EU. This is about Norway as an energy nation, about developing the opportunities that lie there, both for ourselves and in a European context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e531	It is tempting for the opposition to press the no-government on EU issues, and the government is under pressure because the majority of population is made up of EU members. But none of us should forget that the people of Norway said no to EU membership in 1994, and that must guide the future work of the Storting, including the Government. The objectives and ambitions in relation to individual EU issues will be different, depending on our positions on EU membership, including police cooperation, foreign and security policy, euro-linking, etc. We also have different opinions on how best to safeguard Norway’s freedom of action in relation to the EU. Those who are in favour of membership want a closer integration into the EU. That is understandable, because if we integrate in such a way that we gradually say yes to what we said no to during the EU vote, we will eventually become members of the benefit, but not in the name. Then the people are faced with a fait accompli at the next crossroads and have no alternative but to say yes to EU membership. I think we have to take care of the freedom of action we have as a non-member, and not put ourselves in such a situation that we lose the options. It must not at least have a no-refining ambition. Fortunately, the debate on Norway's relationship with the euro has come down to a more concrete level in the course of the debate and, in my opinion, is well-parked. It is now clear that a broad majority in the United Kingdom does not want to change today’s monetary policy, and therefore the demand for closer links with the euro will no longer be realistic. If we are to have a firmer relationship with the euro, it must either mean having a price that is completely fixed or almost fixed in relation to the euro. If we had a price that was almost fixed relative to the euro, i.e. With a little room for fluctuations, we would have a system that corresponded to the link we had to the ecu from 1990 and which we had to state in December 1992. It's a system that's tailor-made for speculators, and such a system is the consensus that we won't reintroduce. Then we stand back with an absolute fixed course. With an absolute fixed rate, we had to have an agreement with the EU, because the purpose of a fixed rate is to defend the crown, in any case. If we were to have such an agreement with the EU, it would mean that we had to follow the general economic policy they are pursuing in the EU, whether it suits us or not. Since the 1980s, we have consistently had opposite economic trends in relation to the European Union. Norway as an oil and gas exporting country cannot therefore pursue the same monetary policy as the EU. It's hard to see any rational reason to connect the dollar more firmly to the euro. If we were given an absolutely firm course and were subject to the economic policies of the Central Bank and the European Union, it would be economically unfortunate for Norway. We would also be politically forced into EU membership, because the logical consequence would then be to include the decisions. Many Europeans may be tempted by such a process, but fortunately, the majority of population will not go that far, at least not in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e550	The President will propose that the following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e553	Let me begin by saying that I am very pleased with the broad support for the main lines of the Government's policy towards the EU expressed during today's debate. I can assure the representative Dørum that the Government is very conscious that it represents the 1994 population. The EEA Agreement is Norway’s platform for cooperation with our main trading partners and close neighbours. It is a dynamic agreement that continuously addresses new EU-designed legislation and is the basis for further development and development of cooperation, in line with changing needs and interests. The government will take advantage of all the possibilities offered by the agreement to attend to Norwegian interests. Norway’s contact area with the EU and EU countries spans a wide range of issues. This in itself illustrates the broad community of interests and values we have with the EU countries and the importance of the European market for us. When I gave particular attention to analysing developments in some key areas of EU cooperation – such as the enlargement process, the implementation of economic and monetary union, security and defence cooperation and judicial cooperation, and how the Government takes care of Norwegian interests in this development picture – this should not be seen as an exhaustive description of all aspects of our relationship with the EU. An area of particular importance to us is energy, which has been extensively discussed here today. Our relationship with the EU in this area is often described as a destiny. The term well describes what has contributed to the development of our petroleum resources between Norway and the rest of Europe. As the Minister for Oil and Energy has pointed out, Europe is the main market for the disposal of Norwegian oil and natural gas. For Europe, Norway means that important parts of its energy supply come from a neighbouring and – not least – politically stable area. This fundamental energy security aspect will not be reduced in the coming years. The fate community will also be a good name for the relationship between Norway and the EU after the millennium. In this picture, Norway has a prominent position as an energy producer and an energy exporter. Foreign policy is a very important element to build on in the development of our relations with the EU countries and the rest of Europe. I agree with Mr Sanner on that with 45 p.m. of gas reserves in the EEA and 75 pst. the oil has Norway, with only 1 pst. Europe’s population, a significant potential to meet important parts of Europe’s energy needs for many years to come. But I do not agree with Mr Sanner that I am taking over this issue with harelab. As I stressed in the statement on 19 January, we are committed to a continuous dialogue with the EU and the EU countries on energy and environmental policy issues. This is not least due to the challenges associated with the follow-up to the Kyoto Conference, as the Minister for Environment also stressed, and to the further development of the internal market following the implementation of economic and monetary union. We are pleased with the positive feedback from the European Union on such closer cooperation and dialogue in the field of energy and the environment that emerged during the Prime Minister's talks with the President of the Commission and the German Chancellor earlier this month. Several speakers today have underlined the importance of the Russian dimension in Norwegian European policy. The government shares this view in full. As I said in the statement, the relationship with Russia is a major challenge both for Norway and the rest of Europe. Security and stability in Europe require Russia to be integrated into the widest possible economic and political cooperation. Just integrating Russia is a key element in the EU’s efforts to develop a northern dimension. Actions related to energy, environment and nuclear safety are very central to the preliminary report on the Northern Dimension discussed by the Heads of State or Government of the EU countries at their meeting in Vienna last December. On the Norwegian side, we will work to further develop and clarify the relevant cooperation actions in these areas, in close cooperation with Finland, Russia, the EU Presidency, the Commission and other stakeholders. In cooperation with the European Commission, we have already laid the foundations for project-oriented cooperation in North-West Russia between the EU support programme for Russia and the former Soviet republics, TACIS, and Norway. That way, we're getting more out of the economic resources we're deploying, and projects are getting more weighty because more countries are behind them. I am therefore very pleased that the EU Commissioner for Foreign Affairs, Hans van den Broek, will be present at the Barents Council meeting in Bodø at the beginning of March. This will give us a new opportunity to continue our cooperation with the EU on concrete projects in North-West Russia. As I mentioned in the presentation, there are in particular five areas which are identified as central to such cooperation: nuclear waste disposal, energy savings, health prevention, initiatives for cleaner industrial production and cross-border projects. In meetings with the Commission in the coming weeks, we will continue to work on identifying concrete projects. On the Norwegian side, the relevant projects in this area will be financed through the Cooperation Programme with Central and Eastern Europe. The representative of Nybakk referred to the tight budgetary situation of the Cooperation Programme. As I know, I announced yesterday that we are now reviewing the situation, and I have promised that the Government will return to Stortinget with this matter. The work on concreteising and developing the northern dimension will increase the emphasis on the Finnish EU Presidency in the second half of this year. As part of our efforts to participate in this process, we will, in close cooperation with Finland and other stakeholders, participate in joint events on the EU's northern dimension in Paris and Moscow during the spring, respectively. Let me also say a few words about developments in the area of security and defence policy. As the statement showed, we cannot rule out the possibility that the debate on strengthening EU countries' cooperation in the area of security and defence policy could have an impact on the Western Union. It is clear that this could pose challenges for us. However, there is no need to interpret such developments as Norway being placed on the sideline of security policy. No one wants the EU to take over tasks from NATO. Allies, including France and the United Kingdom, insist that NATO is responsible for collective defence. There is also agreement that crisis management tasks on a larger scale, as in Bosnia, require American participation, even here NATO is our natural choice. The initiative of Prime Minister Blair and the British-French statement of St Malo are about Europe’s ability to deal with crises when NATO is not a natural choice, for example. Because the United States doesn't want to participate. Experience from Albania and Kosovo shows that Europe today does not have the ability to act quickly and effectively. These experiences have also raised doubts as to whether the Western Union could become the instrument for the EU that the EU countries have foreseen in recent years. The issue is therefore primarily about our ability to participate in decision-making processes in crisis management operations under European leadership. The challenge is that a greater proportion of decision-making processes can be transferred to the EU. I underlined in the statement that we already have a mechanism for dialogue on foreign policy issues with the EU. This mechanism could be of increased importance if the debate leads to changes in the current EU-VEU-NATO cooperation relationship. However, this is by no means our only channel for co-influence. The policy is going to be in the main areas, and we have had frequent consultations every year on security policy issues with our allies, both at political level and at official level. These consultations are also used to discuss European security policy issues. Increased operational capacity for the EU will certainly require closer cooperation between the EU and NATO. These issues are therefore of great interest in the alliance and will be discussed in depth as part of the preparations for the Washington Summit in April. The debate so far shows a broad willingness to include the allies outside the EU. Norway can make significant contributions to peace operations and crisis management, and we are therefore an important partner, even if EU countries are to launch an operation. Finally, I would like to say a few words quickly about the situation in Kosovo, which several speakers have also spoken about. Among other things, Solheim's representative said that the conflict in the Balkans is the most important thing that has happened in Europe in the 1990s. Everything else comes in the shadow of that tragedy. As far as Kosovo is concerned, it is important that we also participate there, among others. through our OSCE Presidency. We see that the OSCE can play a role, and we will also take advantage of that opportunity to create peace and stability in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e602	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e605	A great deal of praise has come to the Foreign Minister today for Europe's development and for the management of the OSCE Presidency – and that is fast. Now maybe there's also a connection between these two things. Anyone who is willing to deal with EU issues in this government is well-informed to deal with conflicts in other countries as well and to make them believe that they are in fact in common. In the post now, the Foreign Minister was quite cautious on the point he put the greatest emphasis on in terms of distribution, defence and security policy. I understand from the debate today that the Government does not see stronger European cooperation in this area as a threat, but as a chance for Europe, and that there is no threat to Norway either. On the contrary, Norway will be able to achieve the same conditions in cooperation with the EU as one has today with the Western Union, and therefore we should rather support stronger cooperation in Europe in this area than stand by and believe that this is a threat to Norway. In other words, Norway should actively participate in stronger cooperation for a more effective and coordinated Europe in the international arena, and that we take it for granted that we have a good solution in accordance with what we now have in the Western Union. One last area I would like to mention is judicial and police cooperation. It has been said by the Government that one will send a message during 1999, probably to the fall. Earlier today, we have called for a clear message from the Government that they are willing to come to the Storing before this time with a clear outline and an assessment of the ability to engage in Europol cooperation. I hope that, now or later in the debate, a clear response from the Government is that one does not want to wait until the autumn, after the EU summit, but that one will be back in a short time – as soon as possible in the situation of the Government in relation to the Ministry of Justice – will come back with a concrete approach to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e615	I saw the first part of the European Parliament's line more as a comment, in which he stated that, in so far as he agreed with me, the developments we are now looking at in the defence and security field in Europe are not a threat, but more a challenge. I can confirm that, if that's what was desirable. It's a challenge, and we're going to follow this closely. We are committed to maintaining the transatlantic link. It is important for Norway. The United States is concerned about it, but it is our impression that the EU countries are also concerned about it. As I tried to say in my post, it is clear, at least for the time being, that what is now developing in the Western Union is crisis management mechanisms, and Norway is central because we are a contributor, and we are interested in being involved in this. So I think we can also play a constructive role in that context. As far as judicial and police cooperation is concerned, it is clear that if the majority of the population wants from the Government, once the Minister of Justice has recovered, to come back and explain the possibilities for a system with Europol, then, of course, the Government will – if that is what Haakon Blankenborg wants. But I think it might be a little bit strange that you don't want to see this in a larger context. We have extensive police cooperation, and we are already participating, as the Prime Minister explained today, at the level of experts in Europol cooperation, so we are not excluded from the information gathering that is there. That the government then proposes to see our total international police cooperation in the context, can't be so wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e622	To take the last one first, I noticed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was somewhat in doubt about the extent to which Blankenborg's wish represented the wishes of a majority in the United Kingdom when it came to explaining a possible Europol connection. On behalf of the Right, I can stress that we too support a desire to have a presentation in the Stortinget on such initiatives. However, I would also like to comment on the statement to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, where he advocates that the right of veto has been negotiated in order to be used. Although he adds that the use of this right is not a problem suitable for theoretical discussion, the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not hesitate to frame a number of directives and issues with the EU and suggests that in several of these cases it may be appropriate to apply the right of veto. And as if this isn't enough, we read in one of today's newspapers that the helicopter from the side line, Harald Hove from the Left, says that a government that dares to use the veto right ensures Norwegian interests in EEA cooperation. Yes, is it so obvious in any way? I think that when the Foreign Minister is rattling with using the veto right, there is every reason for the Government to discuss possible outcomes of using this veto right. It is true that Norway can choose to maintain Norwegian legislation, but the EU also has the right to take countermeasures if our no violates the obligations we have assumed in the EEA Agreement. I don't want to deny in any way the importance of Article 102, but I think, although I understand that this is most suitable for internal medicine use in the Government, that, in the name of responsibility, one can also demand an explanation of the consequences of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e631	If I was in doubt before, I am now convinced that there is a great majority who want to get a statement on Europol. As the Government now receives new information about this, and as we also have political contacts that are interesting to announce the Storting, we will of course do so. But once again, I would like to stress that the Government still wants to give a message to the Storting about our total international police cooperation, and I assume that the Storting is also interested in seeing this in context, so that one should not exclude the other. When it comes to the veto right, I think this is a strange debate. As Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs, I am set to take care of Norwegian interests, and if I was not to have all kinds of options open to my work, whether it concerns the EU or other countries where I am assigned to attend to Norwegian interests, I would not do my job. The fact that we have an agreement here that also includes a veto right, and in a statement about Norway's relationship with the EU also mentions the veto right, has with respect to notifying nothing about internal medicine. This has to do with emphasising the opportunities and rights of Norway and the interests of Norway. But as a responsible government, of course, we see this in a context. So far, we haven't used the veto right, precisely because we didn't think it was necessary, that there was a basis for it. I have underlined in my presentation, and other expert councils have also emphasised that we will of course take advantage of other possibilities before we may apply the veto right, because we all believe that it should be used – I had almost said – in case of extreme emergency.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e638	The European Union is a system that we must and must deal with. But I think that the debate has focused a little little on an analysis of the system and how it develops. How to manage e.g. power within the EU now? Is it increased democratisation, or is it less democratization? It is very important to get to know it well when you are in a situation where you can benefit greatly from adaptation in some areas, while in other areas you can benefit from the right to veto. I could imagine asking about the Foreign Minister's assessments in this regard. It is said that there are major changes in Europe, and that is right. Even outside Europe, it does. In Europe, there is a strong integration, both in depth and width. In parallel with this, there is a fragmentation in other countries of large associations which have had no natural connection with each other, where there has been no political and popular integration that has kept the construction works together. It's true that this has occurred in other ways and at other times. But I could imagine hearing the Foreign Minister’s assessment of EU integration in such a perspective, and how it stands out with regard to the relationship with Norway with the strong link through the EEA Agreement and the commitments we have to it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e645	I am a little afraid that the representative Andersen is now asking, not an answer to a reply, but a new statement. Because it was a relatively comprehensive question, and I don't think I can answer it in 1 minute and 46 seconds. When it comes to increasing or reducing democratisation in the EU, I think it might be both – there, like many other places in the world. It sees increased democratisation by giving the European Parliament greater power, which is, of course, a form of democratisation. At the same time, we see that there is a struggle between Parliament and the bureaucrats in Brussels. The Commission has a great deal of competence in which Parliament feels they are not involved. I believe that there is a fight there too, as in some relations between national parliaments and governments. Saying that evolution goes away from democracy, I think it's difficult, but you have different trends there like many other places. When it comes to assessing the impact of EU integration, it is, as I said, a relatively comprehensive question, and I have not tried to explain it completely in my presentation. What I was talking about in my presentation was Norway's relationship with the EU as it is. As we have said several times in this debate, this is not a membership debate. The EU is there, Norway has to deal with the EU, and what this government is going to do is to make the best use of the EEA Agreement, so that we can best safeguard Norwegian interests within the framework we have and within the relationship with the EU that we have established through the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e654	I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs underlined and made it clear that the Government will come back to the Great Britain with Europol as a matter of its own, although it does not contradict the fact that the Stortinget can later also get a message and have a larger debate where one looks at police cooperation in a broader context. The majority of the population here today have underlined that the premise for this is that there is a dialogue with the EU with a view to establishing a system in relation to Europol, a Schengen-like system, because Europol is actually a continuation of what is seen in Schengen. And when we want such an initiative to be taken as soon as possible, it is because Europol is now being set up, and then we can have an opportunity to influence a yet unfinished system, just as some other countries outside the EU are now making such contacts, among others. U.S.A. And I ask the Foreign Minister to confirm that it is on these premises that the Government will return to the Great Britain with Europol as a matter of its own.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e659	Firstly, it is not natural that it is the Foreign Minister who comes to the Great Britain with Europol. I assume it's the Minister of Justice who's going to do it. I will of course pass on the wish of the majority of people to her, and I am sure that she will come back to Stortinget with this matter in a natural context. I would also like to assume that you will then be allowed to examine and ask how it is natural to relate to, cooperate with or organise the cooperation you need with Europol. And I assume – if not the majority of people know much more about Europol than the government does – that there are still some uncertainties about how this can happen. But we have already had contact with Europol, as the Prime Minister explained yesterday, and we do not believe that the United States has come any further in its contacts with Europol than we have. We are aware that Europol has been interested in discussing relations with third countries. They look at that, and we will of course actively look at that, and then it will be the task of the Minister of Justice to explain this to the Stortinge in a natural context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e664	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e667	As the Foreign Minister said in his statement to the Stortinget: the people's no in 1994 did not make Norway an isolated country, cork in Europe or in the world otherwise. On the contrary, in the years that followed, we have engaged ourselves in very extensive and close cooperation, especially with our closest neighbours. And we'll continue to do that. The allegations that the Government is pursuing a passive European policy have little to do with it. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has thoroughly demonstrated that this is the opposite. Representatives from as well as the Workers' Party as the Right have yet to substantiate their criticism with factual reasoning. The debate has shown that. It may be a lesson for all of us to avoid that the debate on important questions does not end in a delusion where the ultimate goal of politics is to produce impressions. Today, Norwegian European policy is on the map, not the issue of Norwegian membership of the EU. At that point, there is constant national consensus. And that would just be missing. Today, we have a very unclear picture of what will happen to the EU in the next few years. The question is pending: When will there be any plan to include the search engine countries? Who's gonna pay for this? Will the economic union be realized? And if so, does it force a large federal budget? Will we see the emergence of a directorate within the EU, where major powers, such as the United Kingdom, Germany, France and Italy, secure leadership? What will be the situation for small countries within the Union? Will the Union try to correct its democratic deficit, or will developments continue in its current track? What about the employment relationship? What about the social dimension? The answers to these questions we know little about today. And what is more important is that we have little basis for saying something that is certain about the main perspective that will be used in the future European debate, with an interest in countries as well as outside the EU. A problem arises particularly in this context. Historically, she represents the essence of women in a discussion of Europeans that has led and continues to lead itself. In this European area of the world, there is a dynamic deficiency, and it exists in parallel with a large economic and cultural community. In our Europe there is no ‘foreign’, only countries that are different, especially each in its own way. The aim is for Europeans to find a reasonable balance between common interests and special needs. There's a hunt at the intersection here that's alpha and omega, and the discussion never calms down until the Europeans get closer to that point than they are today. We have a lot to cooperate on, it's indisputable, but I'll warn you that in our analysis, we ignore the great variation between east and west, between north and south in Europe. Historically, culturally, geographically and also in terms of climate and growth conditions, there is a wide variation. Politically, this tension is expressed between federalists and confederalists, between those who want a dense, supranational union, and those who want to invest in inter-national cooperation, where there is no doubt that the individual country and the elected assemblies are fully responsible for their peoples. I thought it was time to raise the Norwegian European debate at this level. We have to decide on the main perspective. Because if we're all Norwegians, we're all Europeans too. We still say that we need to join the EU in order to be able to influence a development that will also be followed by the specific Norwegian language. But then the question is, what are we going to affect, and what position are we going to take on major questions of the type of centralizing or decentralizing forces? The refusal of several Nordics to join the EU in 1994 was a response to the Union’s very ambitious plans to create a common policy for the whole of its territory – without regard for the needs of the countries to pursue their own policies. In other words, Norway positioned itself in the European debate by insisting that there are many things we have the best ability to deal with ourselves, and by pointing out that there are limits to what Brussels should be involved in. This is probably as much a European as a Norwegian problem. The current government is clearly based on this philosophy, and it shows the distribution from the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Under the EEA Agreement, Norway is linked to parts of the EU system, which means that, as long as Norway wants to have it, we have to decide on a set of EU directives and some of them are so problematic that they update the use of veto. But these are things that we'll come back to later.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e686	The debate today has been calm. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has been boasted that he has had the ability to make a statement about our relationship with the EU without spreading fear about the EU and that he is not at all busy with Norway being a ‘other country’. I'm joining the good news. Everyone in this room builds our relationship with the EU on the EEA Agreement and intergovernmental agreements. Within this frame, we need to be active, not just record what is happening, and then react in one direction or another. As the government has acted to this day, they have come down and do not want to take any independent initiative. Currency cooperation is one of the currently advanced areas. The government has not had the lead here; it was the Labour Party and the Right who, with their contribution to the budget in the fall, said that this work had to be done. I remember all the rounds of the spontaneous Question Time with Minister of Finance Restad, where he stressed that he did not have such great expectations as to travel to Brussels. That's not a good starting point for speaking Norway's case. But as we heard earlier today, the Prime Minister actually said that such meetings as he and the Minister of Finance had attended actually had their own value. Yes, it is, and I believe the Prime Minister actually meant what he said about self-esteem. But I thought it was going to be pathetic when the Prime Minister again and again punishes the opposition that we are not concrete enough. Is it true that the Government is not satisfied that the Storting is in charge of the big business, but that the details should be controlled as well? It is not enough for the Government to bring a ‘trade note’ to the EU, which has been mentioned earlier, where it says that they should buy, for example. noise, noise, No, they want to know what kind of noise the majority wants. – It is the Government that must be active on behalf of Norway, and they need advice, it is natural to come to the Storting and ask for it. The dialogue between Norway and the EU on environmental and energy issues needs to be intensified. This applies in particular to the follow-up to the international climate agreement. The agreement opens up a whole new principle in international environmental agreements so that countries can join forces to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through emissions trading and joint implementation. The social democratic parties in the Nordic countries have taken the initiative to create a common Nordic system of emission quotas. Such Nordic cooperation should be the first step towards broader European cooperation on emission allowances. And I am pleased that the Environment Council, albeit with some counter-measures, said that it will follow up these ideas in an active dialogue with EU countries and with the EU. As a large energy nation, we have everything to gain from a dialogue between Norway and the EU, including in energy matters. When it comes to the EU’s newly established police organisation, Europol, it is not enough for the Prime Minister to say that the organisation is not yet operational. Here there must be an initiative from Norway to reach an agreement with the EU aimed at reducing international crime. We cannot achieve full participation, but we must try to make contact at political level, not only at the level of employment, although it is also important. In this area, too, the Prime Minister learns quickly, because yesterday he said that the Government has nothing against cooperating with the EU on justice and police issues, including Europol. I'm in agreement with Erling Kjekstad in the Nation, where he says on January 22 that ‘it takes millimeters to see the difference’ between the Government and the Workers' Party. But the rhetoric of the Government is different, because they're going to satisfy the Center Party, which is negative to all of these questions. So there's one thing that really surprises me about this arrangement, and it's that the Foreign Minister wants to spend time telling the Stortinget that the veto right when it comes to the EEA Agreement is negotiated in order to be able to use it. This is probably also for internal medicine use for the Government. The majority of the population wants us to focus on all the possibilities that the agreement gives us to take care of Norwegian interests, and if we're in trouble, we have to do everything we can to find solutions, as the government showed that they could in connection with the veterinary agreement. Finally, after following the debate today, I see that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has cost himself. The centre party has been most absent in the debate, and the centre party's leaders have been completely absent. I guess that's characteristic of the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e718	The Centre Party will contribute to the promotion of European cooperation that could lead to an open Europe in which people's living conditions are centered. This is in line with the 1994 no. In our view, the main challenges facing Europe in the years to come beyond resolving the conflicts in the Balkans are to prevent increased differences between East and West and between groups of the people. Fighting unemployment and increasing social disparities must be a key task of European cooperation. The no has led Norway into an international isolation, as some claim would happen before the referendum. As stated by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Norway has close cooperation with the EU and EU countries, while joining a number of other European and international organisations. The centre party is committed to taking advantage of the freedom of action enjoyed by Norway, politically and economically, while, of course, providing our services through, among other things. to pay for the agreements and cooperation projects concluded with the EU. We're not supposed to be snooping around. Since I am one of the last members of the Central Party who has the floor, I want to focus on one area: education in a European and international perspective. Having contact with the outside world is a natural part of our culture. This, of course, is not dependent on our relationship with the Union, but is based on mutual respect, long traditions and various cooperation agreements and natural cross-border relations. Contact and communication takes place in many ways and faster than ever, both in travel and electronic communications. The borders of nations are no longer barriers. That gives us exciting challenges The curricula of the Norwegian Schoolwork have a thorough basis in Norwegian and European cultural history. This provides a good basis for students to develop international and national anchorages. This is important in order to develop positive attitudes and solidarity among the younger generation, which is of fundamental importance for a peaceful and friendly attitude. This is not least important to our new countrymen, refugees and asylum seekers. If we are able to achieve good cooperation relations in school and in the growing-up environment, this will work positively in relation to the multicultural society that Norway has become. The 1990 action plan on internationalisation in secondary schools has led to many exciting projects with EU countries. Students and teachers have shown great enthusiasm, and this continues. This is in addition to being a competence-building attitude-former. Getting to know our own cultural heritage and history is important for identity creation, but it is equally important to gain insight into the cultural background of other European countries. The Party recognises that an international labour market and a high level of mobility require the content of the training and the recognition of qualifications. Knowledge knows no limits. We have to solve the challenges together with others. Cooperation gives important impetus to Norwegian society. Therefore, we are actively participating in a wide range of international organisations and many training programmes. Through, inter alia: The Leonardo and Socrates programmes are taking part in a comprehensive European cooperation. Similar agreements exist at university and university level. The EEA Agreement gives us the right to participate in a number of programmes, such as environmental and consumer protection, energy saving, cultural projects as well as research and development. Participation in the research programmes is important and absolutely necessary in the Norwegian research effort, while enabling important networking for the business community. This is a good way to be in constructive dialogue with the EU. Although the EEA Agreement ensures the mutual recognition of evidence of education and professional competence and equal access to studies and research, Norway must continue to work on recognition schemes for people with professional training outside the EEA territory. This is important in order, inter alia, to: refugees and asylum seekers will be given relevant jobs, while at the same time addressing the shortage of skills that exists in many disciplines in our society. We have a unique opportunity to meet this now when the competence reform is to be implemented. Finally, Norway said no to membership of the Union in 1994, but we have not said no to Europe. The debate here today, on the basis of the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, shows that this has been fully endorsed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e750	I am also pleased that we have had a nuanced debate today. As an opponent of Norwegian membership through two referendums, I too often felt in the name of the battle that the shades disappeared, and that everything was produced in black and white, depending on personal standing. The will and ability to nuance was not exactly prominent. The names yes-man and no-man show this better than anything else. You didn't have a point of view, you were the point of view. I do not think Norway deserves to be included in any debate on the relationship with the EU with such labels in its forehead. As I said, I am pleased that today, at least apparently, we are able to conduct a debate that focuses on Norway's interests in a new situation without black and white thinking. It may seem strange that I, as a representative of the Workers' Party, am drawing up Erik Solheim's posts as a particularly good example, but I am doing it anyway. In my view, the Minister for Foreign Affairs made a very balanced statement to the Stortinget. But I also noticed the lack of enthusiasm that others have pointed out when it comes to our relationship with the EU. Perhaps it is because of the heavy responsibility that he must feel as head of the OSCE and the challenges that have engulfed Kosovo. However, like others from the Labour Party, I would like to stress the importance of an offensive attitude towards the EU. When we said no to membership, we did not say no to Europe. Nor was it a denial of mutual and committed cooperation to address the major challenges Norway will face. We said no because we wanted to stand free in our assessment of forms of cooperation and in the degree of commitment. But then it would be fundamentally wrong to stand passive or waiting for what might come from the EU as a counterparty, then we have to be on the offensive. The developments since the referendum have shown that the majority judged correctly, and I have little sense of a new membership debate today. There's little reason for that even if the interest rate is too high. Like the leader of the Labour Party, I would like to stress that Norway is going to act in relation to the EU, based on the no of the people. In my view, there are three issues that concern me in particular about the question of new membership debate. One is the fact that today we have a so-called no-regiment, which, on the whole, does reverse operations that in many ways kick the legs under previous good no-arguments. And in particular, this center part, which was tone-indicating on the no-side. We can now experience the situation that more people in the Workers' Party are expressing skepticism, for example. certain aspects of the Schengen Agreement and directives on gas, food preparations and patents in life, while the most angry opponents of membership make a positive recommendation. Yes, perhaps some of us may wish to use the veto right in a given case, as opposed to the Government and the Center Party. Such situations would easily be confusing and dampening the commitment of people and weakening resistance to Norwegian membership. The second relationship is perhaps the most worrying, namely that Norway adopts such a passive attitude towards the EU that it has a noticeable negative impact on Norway that we are not a member. Then we can rightly talk about EU adaptation – a forced one. It will not be EU adaptation if Norway is so offensive that we get the agreements we need to avoid problems. It will be an EU influence, and it applies whether we are talking about economics, goods exports, the environment or security. A third aspect that I want to highlight is the danger that self-determination will be applied to more right-wing policies – as we have experienced recently – and in the long run will reinforce internal problems in ourselves, as Trond Giske so pointed out. We must not have more right-wing policies in Norway than in Europe. I mentioned the problems that are looming up in Kosovo, and the challenges that Norway, and in particular our foreign minister, are facing there. This is not the main theme of today's debate. However, I would like to take this opportunity to stress that we must not stigmatise the Serbs as a group of people. In my view, it would be both completely wrong and wrong if we were to contribute to a solution. We know that Serbs in general have a particularly good relationship with Norway. The Yugoslav-Norwegian Association is proof of this, and here, perhaps, is a contact area that should be cared for and exploited positively, not least in terms of disseminating information on what is really happening in Kosovo. I feel convinced that the ordinary Serbs have an equally fervent desire that the conflict should have a peaceful outcome that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e773	In its presentation to the European Council on the Government's European policy, Minister for Foreign Affairs Knut Vollebæk outlined the main challenges facing Europe today. Now it was initially Norway's relations with the EU that were emphasised in the Foreign Minister's presentation, but as Norway is now holding the presidency of the OSCE, I want to go a little deeper into this topic. Democratic systems based on freedom, equality and brotherhood are being helped by the presence of the OSCE in a number of former communist states and Soviet republics, and I think everyone in this Chamber will agree that the OSCE has proved itself to be a success for the promotion of democracy and human rights in Europe. The mission of the OSCE as a peace and democracy builder is a continuous process. Kosovo is also a major foreign policy challenge for Norway through the Norwegian Presidency of the OSCE in 1999. In this context, it is natural to mention the excellent efforts of Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk in the international arena, among others. to resolve the hostage drama in Kosovo immediately in the new year. As we all know, the hostages were set free thanks to great diplomatic efforts by all parties. Also incidents such as this create instability and complicate the prospects for a peaceful solution, but the cruel massacre of 45 civilian Kosovo Albanians is nevertheless a type of event that can ultimately make a peaceful solution impossible in Kosovo based on the presence of unarmed observers in the OSCE. This could create a situation where the presence of the OSCE in Kosovo is being pushed into an armed conflict. And should one get there that the use of military power is the only possibility that the truce can be respected, many, many human lives will be lost. The suffering of the civilian population will increase to an extent and the risk of the conflict spreading to surrounding countries, such as Macedonia and Albania, will become imminent. Milosevic has his ultimatum. Finally, let us hope that he now understands the seriousness, shows willingness to negotiate and thus opens up the OSCE observer corps to continue their work in Kosovo. This will be much more able to form the basis for a peaceful solution without much loss of life and unnecessary suffering for the civilian population. With regard to the considerations expressed by Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk about our relationship with the EU, there are a few things I want to focus on. Firstly, and as several speakers before me have said, I clearly see the advantages of Norway being outside the EU when Norway is acting on the international arena. It has, among other things, This is reflected in Norway’s involvement in the Middle East, for example: former Councillor Terje Rød-Larsen has underlined his efforts in the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians. The benefit of acting as an independent and free foreign policy actor will also be reflected in Norway’s presidencies in the OSCE. It goes without saying that it is easier for Norway to act as a solution to conflict than it is for a foreign minister in the EU who has to coordinate the positions of 15 governments before he can allow himself to believe anything. In addition, Norway’s free position as a non-EU country can also be fortunate in a Nordic perspective. Among other things, Norway has on some occasions protected the interests of our Nordic neighbours because both Finland, Sweden and Denmark, as EU members, have not had the necessary freedom because of the commitments given by Union membership. In such a context, it has been possible to have a Nordic partner who can express himself independently of what you might think in Brussels. I also think that there is reason to give the Government credit for respecting the people's no in the vote on Norway's link to the European Union in 1994. The Minister for Foreign Affairs made it clear in his statement that some EEA Directives will require a legislative amendment in Norway that the Government does not consider acceptable, inter alia. the Directive on patents in life and the Directive on additives in baby foods are drawn up. This clearly marks a distinction in relation to the uncritical EU alignment line that the former Labour Party government led. I look forward to the central government in the matters that are not to be regarded as inheritances from the former ja-government under the direction of Jagland, assessing each and every new EEA directive in the light of the people's no in 1994, and thus also the use of the veto right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e794	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e797	It is Jagland and the leadership of the Labour Party and the associates in the Right who have been the proponents of adapting Norway to the EU system to which the Norwegian people said no in 1994. After no, the strategy has been clear: when we don't get the people with us directly, we get to change the strategy. We have the hub we need, we have the EEA Agreement. Little by little, Norway will be increasingly linked to the EU. Bit by bit, Norwegian decisions shall be subject to what the EU has decided. Gradually his people will be undermined from 1994 onward. This is the strategy that Igland and Petersen have been implementing. Each new EEA Directive has been accepted by the majority. But the new thing now is that the yes people have got a no-registration to do their job. And what happens now? It's easy that Bondevik never looked down his foot to press this yes-multiple. The last time the Government let us down on the matter of the veterinary border control. And in the future, new directives are in line – many directives and agreements that the government party had guaranteed to oppose if they were in opposition. It is sad that Bondevik is flat for Jagland and Petersen when they require a higher pace of EU adaptation – now last in Jagland’s seven-point plan, where one point is a strengthening of the EEA Agreement. The Prime Minister does the same thing all the way, he follows what the plural says, without any particular resistance. SV is opposed to the EEA Agreement and believes that its people no longer belong to the EU in 1994 will be undermined by this agreement. Through the bit of the bit-strategy that's being led, the people will be undermined. There is no plurality in this room to cancel the agreement, but it must be possible to have a discussion about how we can sit to take care of their people's no in the best possible way. It should also be a main task for the no-registration. To put it another way: how can we take advantage of the freedom of action we have outside the EU? It's got to be here, too. I'm in the middle of a challenge. Work until all are jobs. 1, says Iland, but I'm in the position to adapt to the EU system, where the average unemployment rate is well above 10 pst. SV believes that full employment is important and will counteract adaptation to the number of unemployed in the EU. If the Government agrees with SV, Bondevik and the Government must implement a completely different strategy than the one they have had so far. Then a set requirement for the yes side and the system must be placed in order for the responsibility to be placed when they press too hard. The EEA Agreement grants Norway a fundamental right of veto and thus a freedom of action that EU members do not have. This was also emphasised by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The question is whether this right will ever be used. There are many possibilities ahead, not least in issues such as the environment, health and safety. We are talking about the food make-up directives, the baby food directive, the directive on the labelling of genetically modified foods and on the radiation treatment of foodstuffs and the directive on patents in life. A veto against such directives will focus on the most challenging feature of the EU internal market rules: the subordination of environment and health to the objective of free movement of goods. The right of veto can be an effective driving force in the European environmental battle because it allows for the support of environmental opinion within the EU. The passivity shown by the Government in relation to e.g. the veterinary agreement must be replaced by an offensive policy which corresponds to its people's no and which shows that we actually have a no-government that uses the freedom of action. Then Bondevik must dare to challenge the leadership of the Labour Party and the Right Party, and at the same time think about what the people said to these couples in 1994. As an appeal to the Bondevik administration, I would like to see something from his own – from the newspaper Dagen: ‘Yes-people often rise when no-people warn of the sky-high unemployment rate in the EU. But it comes from the fact that yes-people have no answer to this argument. For the entire economic ideology of the European Union, it is said that 'flexibility' is precisely what you want in the labour market. Which is to say, green light to keep making people unemployed when Mammon requires it."
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e821	Many today have praised the debate as a nuanced debate. And that's possible, that's possible. For me, it's a little bit too contourless. I think we have had an adaptation debate that is not problematic as to where this adaptation ends. I'm aware that there are others who have different objectives with the adaptation work than I do, but I think that when you adapt step by step as you do now, it's not that difficult to point to where you end up. Then you end up in a place that is in conflict with the referendum that was held. My no position on the European Union is largely the same as that of Gunnar Breimo. There is no passive exclusion, but an active European policy based on the freedom we have outside. What I think is typical in the adaptation debate now is that you not only adapt to what you're actually asked to adapt to, but also want to adapt much more. An example of this is the debate on the euro. It seems that it is in a way more important for EU citizens to press the Government than to make a thorough assessment of what measures they are actually seeking to impose on Norway. Because when the EU – if we take the euro debate – needs too low interest rates to supply gas, Norway needs too high interest rates to cool down the economy, and vice versa. Instead of misleading the opinion of vaguely referring to currency links with the euro, we should take the economic sphere into account that the first bids in an active European policy must be to ensure full employment and a more balanced distribution of social goods in Norway. Most EU countries are struggling with the opposite problems: how to prevent further growth in unemployment, which averages over 10 pst.? How are we going to prevent these inequalities from getting even bigger? Adaptation to the euro will make this systematically more difficult to achieve. Adapting to the euro will take away many of the instruments we need, which countries in Europe are gradually losing. We also see that there is work in Europe on proposals to reduce minimum wages, to decentralise wage negotiations, to lower unemployment rates, etc. These are the consequences of a common monetary policy, which will also turn out in Norway if we follow this little critical role of EU alignment. So an active European policy is as demanding as showing that it is possible to keep unemployment out of the EU in a small country with an extremely open economy. I do not think that the Government has shown that they have many of their own proposals or actions that you can imagine using to ensure this. On the contrary, it seems to me that you're willing to administer absolutely everything, except for membership, even though what we're left with is the same thing as membership, except that we don't have the political influence. That seems to me to be contrary to the outcome of the referendum. I hope that we know the crossroads that are coming soon, and that have been mentioned several times here today, where, at least on several occasions, the government parties have said that it may be relevant to use the veto right, that it may be possible. Because this is about caring for vital Norwegian interests, which I feel we have an obligation to do on the basis of the results of the referendum.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e836	On the surface, this has been a peaceful debate, and it is due to what many have had to say in the past, that the Foreign Minister, in his presentation, abandoned all the romantic notions of different countries and foreign countries and actually left the list fairly high when it came to devoutly wanting to have Norway within the good company. In a succession of lines with me, when the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, Einar Steensnæs, also admitted that just one did not directly go into supranational solutions, there was basically no limit to what this government could accept from cooperation with the EU. I said it was quiet on the surface, but after a while there has been some frustration. The restoration of the ha-voice rhetoric of the no-government has not all clearly to accept. And we have heard through the debate, not least from some in the Central Party – I also noticed Johan J. Jakobsen – talk about this no-government leading a significantly different policy on EU issues than a yes-government would have done. After sitting here all day listening, there's gradually been an existential problem for me to be able to define the difference between a no-government and a yes-government. If we deal with the referendum, it's clear it's easy, because a no-government consists of more no-members who voted no, than a yes-government does – although this government too has overruns, and it also had the previous yes-government. If we look at today's situation, where the whole question of EU membership is not relevant, what is the difference between a no-government and a yes-government? I've managed to figure out four categories. The first is that the current no-government takes fewer own initiative towards the EU than a yes-government would probably do. It is therefore waiting for the EU to develop its policy – and I quote from Johan J. Jakobsen’s articles: ‘We must expect the EU to recognise Norway’s interests in this area’ — that is, defence and security policy — ‘and that the EU is prepared to discuss these issues with Norway’. So the EU must first recognise something, and then they can be willing to discuss something with us. There would probably have to be a yes-regiering to say that Norway also recognises what our interests are, and that we might take initiatives towards the EU in order to try to get something to happen. Secondly, a no-government loyally follows the initiative and mandate of the majority of population. One might say that this is a political necessity for life. But constitutionally, it's actually a little bit suspicious, because we want a government that takes initiative in foreign policy, as we really assume in our constitution. Thirdly, a 'no' government has its own vision of cooperation between Norway and the EU. It has even fewer visions of what Norway should use for non-membership. There it is possible that a yes-regiering would have been a little bit more marked by visions. Fourthly, a no-registration from time to time threatens to use veto in EEA matters. But as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said correctly, until now, you have not done so. There is only one ‘formible’ rice behind the rear-view mirror. I understand quite well the frustration that has shaped part of SV's posts, especially a few of the last ones. This was not expected by a no-regier. From the Right, I must admit that I am pleased that this no-government has managed to do so little damage to the country, especially because there has been a majority in the Stortinge that has kept it in mind. But despite the fact that it may not have the rhetorical power over it when the no-people stand up here, I have to say that for the country it is a guarantee that the no-government has not done us lasting damage until now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-28-2.ana.ud18e865	Several have not asked for the floor and the debate is thus closed. The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on Norwegian European Policy be annexed to the minutes of the Storting meeting on 19 January 1999. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
