ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e139	The representatives of Aud Blattmann, Eirin Faldet, Bjørn Hernæs, Olav Akselsen, Anita Apelthun Seele, Inge Myrvoll, Steinar Bastesen, Lars Rise, Annelise Höegh, Jan Simonsen, Jorunn Ringstad and Tom Thoresen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternates, for Oslo Heikki Holmås and for the Nord-Trøndelag county Astri Wessel, have taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Ane Sofie Tmärås from 4 May until further Tuesday. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Morten Olsen, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e205	Morten Olsen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e210	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e215	I allow myself to propose Per Ove Width and Ursula Evje.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e220	Per Ove Width and Ursula Evje are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Ursula Evje and Per Ove Width are unanimously elected as presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e228	The representative of Sylvia Brustad will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e232	On behalf of Kjell Opseth and myself, I would like to propose a change in the income system for municipalities and county municipalities so that voluntary community mergers do not result in reduced transfers from the state for the merged municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e237	The representative, Karin Andersen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e240	On behalf of Ågot Valle, Olav Gunnar Ballo and myself, I will make proposals for a change to the minimum basis for entitlement to sickness benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e245	The proposals put forward will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that case No. Case No. 1 and Case No. 2 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e268	Today, when we are discussing the Norway’s participation in the Council of Europe in 1998, I will first take the opportunity to congratulate the Council of Europe on the 50 years to be celebrated in May. The role of the Council of Europe has evolved through a continuous process from the beginning to the present day. After the Second World War, the need to rebuild Europe was the driving force behind the creation of many international organisations. Several were formed, but the Council of Europe was among the first. The aim at the time was to achieve greater unity between the Member States in order to ensure and implement the ideals and principles that had their origins in a common heritage, thus contributing to a faster progress in economic and social progress. These overall objectives should be pursued through the various bodies of the Council of Europe — through discussion, agreements and action in relation to economics, social conditions, culture and research, as well as legal and administrative conditions. For the first 40 years, the Council of Europe was a Western European institution. Towards the end of this period, the Council of Europe received many new members from former more authoritarian regimes, who looked at the Council as a guardian of human rights. The Council of Europe was seen as an instrument for the transition from dictator-led regimes to more modern democracies. In the last ten years, trends in Europe have been relatively less stable than in the previous 40. The role of the Council of Europe has not become less important for this reason. In fact, its political role is of great importance to us living in Europe today. Political stability in Europe has changed, and the aim of the Council of Europe is now to strengthen its contribution to the main areas of action – human rights, democracy and the principles of the rule of law, especially with regard to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and Russia. In particular, attention should be paid to actions aimed at new Member States. This also includes important work at intergovernmental level ranging from equality, social conditions, labour and immigration issues, education, culture, media, sport and youth to cultural memory protection and nature management. The first convention of the Council of Europe was the European Convention on Human Rights in 1950. The Convention is important because it protects the fundamental civil and political rights of individuals. Individuals, non-governmental organisations and groups of persons may all promote complaints against the State of Convention concerned if they consider that they are subject to infringements of the rights conferred by the Convention. In this way, the Convention is a tool for human rights and democratic development. In 1998, the government promoted an odelstningsproposition proposing that the Stortinget should incorporate, inter alia: The European Convention on Human Rights in Norwegian law. This proposal is part of an important effort to strengthen the protection of human rights also in Norway. Norway is actively working in the various bodies and committees of the Council of Europe and has been driven to put more issues and issues on the agenda. This is a work that we believe in and that is important for the further development of Europe. The process of democratisation in the new Member States is well under way, but is a difficult process. It is important to respect the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and not to weaken the credibility of its work. This is particularly important to remember these days, with wars and unrest in central areas of Europe. On 3 November 1998, the new Human Rights Court was established in Strasbourg. This strengthens the capacity to deal with individual complaints. This could now affect almost 800 million Europeans. 49 Norwegian complaints were promoted in the last year. Further efforts are being made to abolish the death penalty in the five Member States which still have this form of punishment. However, no death sentences were enforced in these countries in 1998. Cooperation between the Council of Europe and the EU is formalised and the European Commission participates in meetings of Permanent Representatives Committees and in working and reporting group meetings. Similarly, the Council of Europe Secretariat participates in a number of meetings at expert level in the Commission. Cooperation between the EU and the Council of Europe is well developed also in the Baltic and Albania, and this is essential for the speed with which the democratisation process can proceed. Now that Norway has the OSCE Presidency in 1999, there will be a special opportunity to strengthen cooperation between the Council of Europe and the OSCE — concentrated on democracy, human rights, including minority rights, and strengthening the principles of the rule of law. Together, the two organisations complement each other in this work. Several countries have applied for membership of the Council of Europe. Among other things, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia applied for membership in March 1998. But there is no recommendation for membership. On several occasions, developments in Yugoslavia have been addressed. There has been a clear condemnation of the increasing violence in Kosovo, and it has been stressed that human rights must be respected. It has been argued that security guarantees for the population and a high degree of autonomy for Kosovo would be important for a peace settlement. A Norwegian mark is planned to make the values and human rights work of the Council of Europe visible, with a particular focus on efforts to combat racism and intolerance. We congratulate you on your anniversary and wish you every success in the further work of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e300	It's been almost 50 years since the Council of Europe was founded in London on 5 May 1949. Norway has been involved from the outset, and Norway has always been among the privileged countries in Europe that have been able to share as well as serve the ideals of the organisation’s most important registration plate – human rights and democratic development. As the rapporteur recently pointed out, the Council of Europe has acquired a number of new Member States over recent years. It is the joyous function as a result of the fact that most of Europe is now able to share the same ideals and human rights and democratic development, and in this way the Council of Europe is the first organisation to notice that the Iron Curtain fell in Europe. Of course, we all welcome that, but at the same time we have to recognise that the organisation that is built with its resources for significantly fewer member countries than it is today is now getting so big, formidable new tasks that you also have to look at how to increase resources in order to meet those challenges. For example, even though the Human Rights Commission and the Court of Human Rights have now been merged into a unit, this one unit will serve quite a few hundred million people in addition to those who now have the full rights to appeal their cases before the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg. I know that this concerns a lot, and that this concerns the court itself. It must be such that the right now granted to the citizens of the new Member States of the Council of Europe must become a real right. There may well be reason to fear that, not only for traditional reasons, but also because of the stage of democratic development, there may be an extra number of complaints to the Council of Europe's Human Rights Court. I mention these things because, during a 50th anniversary, we must be clear that the Council of Europe, as the important organisation it is, will be able to carry out its tasks with a significant number of member countries, we must also look at organisational and resource conditions in order for this to be possible. It's probably on an occasion like this, maybe another relationship that might be useful to take up also from the Great Britain's pulpit. It is that the Council of Europe is hardly among the most famous of the international organisations we are members of. Very often, there are confusions with other European organisations, which have symbols of confusion similar to those of the Council of Europe and of which, as is known, two referendums have been held in Norway as to whether Norway should be a member. I believe that the Council of Europe itself, but also the political authorities in Norway, have an important task of making known the Council of Europe, not as a kind of advertising agency, but simply because it is where such an important part of our human rights policy is actually exercised, and that is where the citizens of the Member States, including in Norway, have the opportunity to complain about human rights. That is why, at the end of the day, I am pleased that we are getting this mark with this debate in the Grand Duchy today in connection with the 50th anniversary, and I am glad that there is a debate in which the Prime Minister is also taking part.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e313	As the previous two speakers have pointed out, the Council of Europe rounds 50 years tomorrow, and one who has just rounded 50, knows that we would like to use such an anniversary not only for Festivitas, but also for an experimentally mature reflection over the past and to look forward. I also think we should do that with regard to the Council of Europe, and so have the two previous speakers. Today’s debate provides an opportunity to focus on an institution that, during its term of office, has had a greater impact on Europe’s development than perhaps most people are aware of. The results have not primarily concerned economic development and the external changes Europe has undergone in the last six months in terms of technology and efficiency. The activities of the Council of Europe have led to awareness of the importance of individual rights, political participation, broad participation in decision-making processes and cultural mutual understanding across borders. Unfortunately, the conflict in question in the south-east corner of our continent shows that the need for such awareness is still great. Let me still look a little bit back on the story. Like a number of the other organisations that are currently the institutional framework for international cooperation, the idea of the Council of Europe was captured as a result of World War II on the ruins of World War II. Winston Churchill spoke in a speech in Zurich in 1946 about the United States of Europe and proposed as a first step the establishment of a European Council. He highlighted the desire of the European peoples to prevent future conflicts. However, it took a further three years for the Council of Europe to be established. Ten states, including Norway, were among the original Member States. During this period, however, the political landscape in Europe had changed considerably. The cold war was a fact. The Iron Curtain had divided Europe into two. The Council of Europe's guiding ideas on democracy, human rights and the rule of law therefore fell largely on stone's floor in parts of the area hoped to unite. Nevertheless, in the years that followed, the Council of Europe was given great importance to the democratic side of reconstruction in Western Europe. The active substances have not been provocative slogans or political declarations of principle. Instead, concrete conventions have slowly built up a set of guidelines that together can be said to constitute the very definition of any civilised society. Hopefully, the Council of Europe has evolved to become a democratic conscience in Europe. The cornerstone of this building is the European Convention on Human Rights, which entered into force in 1953, and the establishment of a European Court of Human Rights. But also the European Social Charter, which guarantees fundamental social and economic rights for individuals, and the European Charter for Local Self-Government are important components of today's European participatory democracy. Together, the Council of Europe has drawn up more than 160 conventions, which are binding on the Member States that have ratified them, and they also offer thoughtful models of national legislation in these areas. The result is that the Member States of the Council of Europe have largely been able to harmonise their laws and establish common standards and similar practices. After the fall of the wall and the end of the cold war, the Council of Europe has got a new spring, almost as a birth aid for the new democracies in the east. The number of Member States, as mentioned earlier, has increased rapidly, and last week Georgia was admitted as member no. 41. Thus, only Belarus and Yugoslavia are outside. Membership requires countries to acknowledge the value base of the Council of Europe and undertake to comply with these key provisions. It makes countries, but it is still clear that compliance with all the provisions, not least the guarantee of legal certainty for individuals, is not perfect everywhere. Nevertheless, the citizens of the countries have the opportunity to get their cases tried before the Human Rights Court, which Tom Thoresen also had in mind. A concrete consequence of this massive upsurge is also that the death penalty is no longer practised on the European continent, although some countries have not yet passed a ban. The Council of Europe has become a central meeting place not only for parliamentarians, but also for representatives of authority from all over Europe – a forum in which to learn about each other and of each other. Not least this applies to us elected representatives, who meet in the Parliamentary Assembly four times a year. This is a valuable opportunity to exchange views and make concrete joint recommendations to the governments of the Member States. While more and more countries have joined the Council of Europe, the Council has expanded its scope. New challenges require cross-border cooperation. It concerns the fight against racism and xenophobia, intolerance, persecution of minorities, environmental threats, drug abuse, social exclusion, organised crime and corruption. These are all new themes in the Council of Europe context. When I think it has been right for the Council to engage in these areas, it is not because I believe that such problems can be solved in this way once and for all. Unfortunately, it's not that simple. However, it is important to put matters on the agenda of the Council of Europe for two reasons. Firstly, because through these conventions the Council of Europe exercises direct influence on the national laws of the Member States. Secondly, because no other forum brings so many countries together to work for common ideas. The Council of Europe therefore has an important role to play in promoting the legal security, social and economic development of individuals. The reduction of old dividing lines in Europe has led to more actors today who are active in helping build and sement democracies. Not least the EU and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe are among these. Key instruments include election monitoring, advice on institution building and training and exchange programmes. The Council of Europe is making important contributions here and should continue to do so. Nevertheless, it is important that the Council of Europe concentrates on what is its strength, namely its normative function. The conventions, as I have already mentioned, serve to a large extent as templates for national legislation. Members may collect completed formulations for necessary legislative revisions. They can also be sure that using these norms ensures their anchoring in what we otherwise call civilised, democratic legal societies. The Council of Europe should therefore not fear competition from other institutions, but should continue to supply the product, if we can call it, for which there will necessarily be a need and demand. With regard to the current and tragic situation in Kosovo, the commitment of the Council of Europe shows that the human rights aspect is still at the centre. During the debate in the Parliamentary Assembly last week, the human rights perspective, the refugee situation and the serious abuses against individuals were at the centre of the debate. Now I am not going to start or continue any debate on Kosovo here today, but just stress that it is precisely because human rights are more important than national borders that NATO and we have all not been able to see that Slobodan Milosevic continued ethnic cleansing. In fact, individuals are more important than countries and borders. So when negotiations and threats did not come forward, there was no other option. No one wants to bomb, but what's the alternative so far? Nevertheless, there must be a political solution to the conflict in Kosovo, the sooner the better, but the question is how many bombs are required before Milosevic accepts the presence of an international peace force with NATO participation in Kosovo. While I am sure that the Council of Europe will not be the forum for resolving these problems, I would like to highlight the importance of the Council of Europe as a bulwark against the kind of barbarism we see in Kosovo today. The Council of Europe should continue to play a role as a norm-setting and a driving force for democracy, for human rights and the rule of law in Europe. Unfortunately, it is still a long time before all these tasks are resolved, so the Council of Europe will have to take another 50 years. Then we'll see what else the future can bring. But that there will still be an important instrument as a meeting place between old and new democracies, I feel convinced of.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e345	For 50 years, the Council of Europe has contributed to the promotion of the ideals and principles that make up our European value. Today we mark and honour the important work of the Council of Europe on human rights, democracy and the rule of law. We must never believe that the struggle for these values is won once and for all. I am also taking part in this debate to indicate that the Government will be involved in this marking and in the tribute to the work of the Council of Europe, and we are further contributing to such a marking by taking part in the naming of what is now the Council of Europe place in Oslo from today on. As a former member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I myself have learned closely the importance of this pan-European organisation. Tragedy in the Balkans puts in clear relief that the basic ideas of the Council of Europe have not yet rotted all over Europe. The war shows that we need the Council of Europe in today’s and future Europe – which is driving democracy, based on tolerance, respect for human rights and the principles of the rule of law. In the wake of a political solution to the war in Kosovo, the Council of Europe could play a central role. However, already in the current crisis management process, the Council of Europe helps to identify violations of human rights and to record the identity of refugees. The work of the Council of Europe now, over 50 years, is linked to the monitoring of Member States' respect for human rights and to practical assistance for the construction of democracy. At the same time, we are taking advantage of the Council of Europe's corrigendum on its own laws and institutions to protect the human rights of individual citizens in Norway. The government will give the Council of Europe greater attention through its 50th anniversary. This is why an action plan for increasing knowledge of the work of the Council of Europe to strengthen human rights in this country has been developed. In the context of the 50th anniversary marking, the Government has paid particular attention to following up its efforts to combat racism and intolerance. For example, the establishment of Centres for Ethnic Discrimination, which was opened in February, is in line with the Council of Europe's recommendations on national action in this area. Through the Presidency of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Government has strengthened cooperation between the OSCE and the Council of Europe. The aim of cooperation is to ensure the most efficient use of organisations. The priority of the Council of Europe lies in the unique legal competence, the influence of the laws of the countries and the monitoring of Member States’ compliance with their obligations. The OSCE finds its primary strength in preventive diplomacy and the ability to act quickly in the field. The Government believes that cooperation should be practical and flexible and emphasises that the Council of Europe should contribute with its experience also in the field work of the OSCE. The Council of Europe's cooperation with the European Union has been well received, and the EU has shown a willingness to draw more strongly on the Council of Europe's competence and experience. In particular, cooperation on aid for the construction of democracy in Central and Eastern Europe has been fruitful. Compliance with the standards of the Council of Europe is important in the EU’s assessment of candidate countries from Central and Eastern Europe. The most important event in the Council of Europe in 1998 was the establishment of the new Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg — which is also mentioned earlier in this change of words. The reorganised court provides a significant strengthening of a core area of the Council of Europe, namely the respect of fundamental human rights by the Member States. The expansion of the number of Member States of the Council of Europe in the last ten years has given 320 million new citizens of Central and Eastern Europe the right to bring their cases before the Court of Human Rights. It acts as the final judicial review body for nearly 800 million European citizens. It has therefore been imperative to streamline justice. Norway will endeavour to allocate sufficient resources to the judiciary in Strasbourg. This shall enable the Court of Justice to carry out its task as best as possible for the rights of individuals. In 1998, the government promoted an odelstningsproposition proposing that the Stortinget should incorporate, inter alia: The European Convention on Human Rights in Norwegian law. The Convention itself forms the basis of the Council of Europe's work to protect the rights of individuals. The incorporation will give priority to the rights guaranteed by the Convention in a conflict with other Norwegian legislation. The proposal forms part of the Government’s work to strengthen the protection of human rights in Norway. I am pleased with the story of Norway's participation in the work of the Council of Europe, as expressed in today's position. At the 50th anniversary, we can see that the Council of Europe's basic ideas are increasingly strong in more and more countries in Europe. At the same time, we want to involve new countries in a cooperation that will affect them positively. Securing the principles of the rule of law is continuous work. This is why the Government will continue to place great emphasis on the important work of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e371	As others have pointed out, today’s debate marks the 50th anniversary of the establishment of the Council of Europe in London by Norway and nine other European countries. When Europe woke up after five years of war, it was not only sorrow and despair, but also strong elements of hatred and hostility that marked the continent. Europe was torn apart, divided and full of potential new conflicts. The cruel truth of a genocide gradually became known to everyone. But determination when it came to reconstruction was also strong, and especially when it came to ensuring that such tragedy would never be repeated. It does well to explain some of the determination we see today when it comes to stopping ethnic cleansing in Kosovo. It was Winston Churchill who first pointed to the solution in a speech he gave on September 19, 1946, in Zurich. According to him, there was now a need for a tool that through a miracle would transform the whole stage and within a few years make the whole of Europe as free and happy as Switzerland is today, as he said. "We must build a child of United States of Europe", said Churchill. For many, this was the vision when the Council of Europe was established. From the brief beginning in 1949 with ten states, we see that the Council of Europe has evolved into a broad body of states. Last week we welcomed Georgia as the 41st Member State. Several countries are on the waiting list, e.g. Armenia and Azerbaijan. Only having strict membership rules in respect of the fulfilment of some minimum standards of human rights and democracy has contributed greatly to the dissemination of the ideals of freedom of expression, freedom of organisation, legal certainty and the construction of democratic institutions. We also see that the interest in becoming a member is very high, and thus the Council of Europe has good negotiating cards to promote the ideals of human rights and democracy. The Advocate General pointed out that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia applied for membership of the Council of Europe in 1998. This country did not meet the requirements, but there are several states that do not make of those who are now on the waiting list, and you can of course ask if it would have been better to put Yugoslavia on the waiting list, as one has done, among other things. with Armenia and Azerbaijan. A process could then be started and specific requirements and deadlines for compliance could be set. But it is unlikely that the Belgrade government would have listened more to the Council of Europe than to NATO. The reorganisation of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg means a significant strengthening of the Member States' respect for fundamental human rights. The expansion of the number of Member States of the Council of Europe has given no less than 320 million new citizens of Central and Eastern Europe the right to bring their cases before the Court of Human Rights. There has been a revolution when the Court now acts as the final judicial review body for nearly 800 million European citizens. However, now that we are laying behind the first 50 years and are on our way into a new century, it is important to think carefully about what tasks the Council of Europe will undertake in the future. Should, for example, the scope of the Court be extended further? Among the main areas of the Council of Europe's activities described are mainly human rights, democracy, the principles of the rule of law and the social pact. I would also like environmental protection and the fight for a clean environment to be high on the agenda and mentioned among the main areas of concern to the Council of Europe. Pollution is known to have no borders. I myself am in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in the Parliamentary Assembly, and I see the importance of this area, not least the further east. If you think about the situation in our own country with regard to pollution, we see that we get a good deal of pollution from other countries, for example. acid rain, which we have now for decades been sitting here in Stortinget and allocated about 100 million. kr to each year to lime lakes and watercourses in South Norway. We also see that we get significant radioactive pollution along the Norwegian coast. In 1996 the Norwegian Polar Institute and the State Radiation Protection System measured significant quantities of technetium 99 along the entire Norwegian coast. It is traced back to La Hague in France and Sellafield in the United Kingdom. It turns out that this radioactive waste takes two and a half years on the journey from these countries up to the Norwegian coast through the sea. When the report arrived, it showed that we were still at approx. 1/30 of the level of danger, but earlier this year a new report showed that there was now a worrying increase. This shows the need for cross-border cooperation, and I believe that the Council of Europe can play an important role here. If there is a rumor in the fish markets in Paris that Norwegian seafood is contaminated by radioactive waste, I don't think it would help if a Norwegian politician, for example. appeared on French television to reassure the population. Such a rumor could have serious economic consequences for Norwegian exports. And then we come back to the principle in the Brundtland Commission report that the polluter should pay. We've made it applicable now for individuals and for companies/enterprises, but states go free. Here we can only make recommendations and resolutions and try in bilateral talks to convince, for example. The United Kingdom to introduce stricter emission limits. We only have two binding conventions on the environment, which are currently international – the Convention on Biological Diversity and the UNFCCC. My hope is that we can get to a European Convention on the Environment that is binding and that we can have an opportunity at the European Court of Human Rights to also raise environmental issues. The right to live in a clean environment is also an important human right. So an option is to extend the European Convention on Human Rights to include the environment. I see that there is a long way forward for the adoption of a binding convention and for the opening up of a polluting state to an international court. But I think it's very important that we start such a process, and I think that just having a rice behind the mirror could contribute very positively in negotiations between countries. Finally, I would like to point out the importance of the Parliamentary Assembly in the current situation in Kosovo. Last week we saw that the Parliamentary Assembly may be the only forum where parliamentarians from most of the countries involved meet for discussion and exchange of views. I think it is very important that both the nationalist Shirinovsky and the Communist leader, Sjuganov, should be able to sit for hours and listen to debates in the Parliamentary Assembly, listen to parliamentarians from Macedonia and to the President of Albania who will explain in detail the refugee situation. I believe that this will help the Russians to accept some of the most important principles, which we, among other things, have. Last week, when the Russians accepted the principle that the refugees should return.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e394	I think the head of the Great Britain delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly, Tom Thoresen, had an interesting point when he spoke about the resource problems. We have to admit that the Human Rights Court has a problem that is quite interesting. It is that on the day that the court is found to be serious, it will also be destroyed. In recent years, Poland has sent a number of cases to the Court of Justice. The day the population of Russia and the other Eastern European and New European countries discover what this court can be used for, the capacity will be detonated. It was my impression when the Justice Committee visited the Human Rights Court last year, that there was some recognition of this problem, but no solution. In the last ten years, the Council of Europe has been given a revitalisation. Before the fall of the Berlin Wall, I think many were of the opinion that the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly had become an unnecessary bureaucratic colossus, a machine of speech and a resolution defence with no greater value, which would quickly put the European Parliament at risk. Nevertheless, we must admit that the content of the resolutions can often be of less practical value than the people of the Council of Europe want to believe. Today, however, the Council of Europe has an enormous impact on the development of democracy in Eastern Europe. We are looking at how eager the new states, the new democracies of Eastern Europe, are to become members. You see the Council of Europe as a necessary point of access to the West. If they cannot enter the EU or NATO, European Council membership is at least a first step in the right direction. Therefore, countries applying for membership will extend far in order to meet the requirements. The countries that become members will extend far in order to be allowed to remain members, and the control function of the Council of Europe Parliament in relation to these Member States is very important. In addition, the process in the Parliamentary Assembly and in the committee work is good democratic training for Eastern European politicians who hit politicians and parliamentarians from Western Europe, who are more firmly rooted in their democratic thinking and are positively influenced. My conclusion is that today the Council of Europe is helping to secure democracy in parts of Europe that were once communist, and in this way it is helping to stabilise the situation in Eastern Europe. And we should not least be happy for that today, when it burns in the Balkans.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e407	That being the case, the debate is under way. 1 and 2 o'clock. [[See page 3015]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e423	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3015]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e439	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3015]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e455	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3015]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e471	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3016]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e487	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3016]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e503	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3016]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e519	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3016]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e535	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3016]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e548	I'm starting the latest educational policy distribution to the Stortinget in this millennia positively and optimistically: we have a lot to be pleased about in Norwegian education! All children and young people, whatever their background, are entitled to appropriate training through 13 years of age in primary and further education. We have a decentralised network of primary schools, secondary schools, educational establishments, colleges, universities, public high schools, study associations, distance learning and research institutions, etc. with a sound competence. The general level of education places Norway in the leading line internationally. We are about to set up a solid foundation for a proper skill lift for adults. There is a broad political consensus that Norway should have ambitions for a place in the international elite division when it comes to knowledge and competence. Education policy cannot therefore be static but must be characterised by dynamic development. In his speech to the Stortinget on 11 February this year, the Prime Minister highlighted three superior quality requirements for the future society: an innovative, a solidarity and a safer Norway. The government will work to help the Norwegian society develop in such a slump in a new millennium. Education policy is central to ensuring the skills of workers and providing work for all. The quality of education in schools and working life means a lot for what qualities we develop in society. Therefore, in the work of an innovative, solidarity and securityist Norway, the Government attaches great importance to the development of knowledge and competence in a lifelong learning cycle. The state reports of the 1998 Education Directors, which are being presented today, show that we still have challenges in education policy at both local and national level. I am commenting on some of the main points of the reports in this issue, but it does not provide an additional assessment of the wall-to-wall state. I also mention that in ours, I present five large-scale messages that are five throughout the field of education from elementary school to research. Here the government takes up a number of important questions and invites the Stortinget to discuss and decide on concrete proposals and to pass the course on to a relatively wide front. Against this background, I will use most of the time allocated to me today to deepen closer to the following overarching educational policy priorities from the Government's side: to strengthen the quality at and between all stages of the education system to promote innovation and development, skills and flexibility to shift more focus from the central level of governance to the local space for action to strengthen and concreteise the value perspective of the training We are finishing a decade that has reformed the Norwegian education system from basement to ceiling: the basic school reform, Reform 94, the Höjskule reform – and now we are ahead of the competence reform. We are meeting a new millennium with a modernised education policy structure and framework. Changes in society require educational policy reforms. However, centralized modernisation of structures and frameworks does not automatically lead to the renewal of practices. The main challenge now is to fill the new reform framework with content and work forms that are tailored to the needs of a rapidly changing society and that can provide answers to important questions from children, young people and adults that will guide themselves in the future landscape. A society that is changing requires ability for innovation and transformation. A large number of workspaces in the future probably do not exist today. They must be created. This requires an education system that focuses on innovation and research activities at an international level. The government, through the creation of the Mjøs selection, has taken initiatives for a general review of the university and higher education sectors – in the light of social developments at national and international level. Internationally, the contours of a competence market where borders between countries become less important. One also sees trends in a stronger focus on the standardisation of training courses and quality. I do not advance concrete conclusions while the selection is working and the processes are in progress, but I still notify you of changes when, for example, the selection is in progress. degree system, duration of training, quality development, etc. At the beginning of this hundred year, Swedish psychologist Ellen Key came into the book «Barnet’s century» with strangely rough engagements on what she called the «Self-Amendment in the Schools». Practice in the school has changed since Ellen Keys banned. A hundred years later, however, I challenge the renewal of learning methods and the organisation of training at all levels of the education system. We need more learning by doing, experience learning that activates the elephants and students more directly in the learning processes. The students asked for this on the youth school run to the Children's Office last Thursday. An OECD report of 1997 concluded, inter alia: with universities and colleges in Norway characterised by traditional teaching and examination preparation and lacking emphasis on problem-based learning and other forms of work that have demonstrated a high level of learning exchange. Through 'Entrepreneurship on the agenda', more schools are now investing in more innovative learning methods. The central objective is to give young people confidence in their own strengths and ability to use local resources to create jobs, including: through project work or the establishment of a student enterprise. Entrepreneurship brings positive regional policy and enterprise policy gains, provides resource understanding and provides room for girls in the leadership role. It's as much about a way of thinking as a measure or a method, about moving the centre of gravity. from listening to self-employment from passiveness to activity from a professionally divided day of school life to health from reproduction to innovation from learning individual facts to understanding context and problem solving from ‘to be finished’ to having the will and motivation for lifelong learning The government will strengthen the interaction between education systems, working life and society otherwise, as part of efforts to create viable communities that adapt to future demands for jobs and value creation. I see it, too. as important: further develop the continuing training courses as local resource centres encourage cooperation agreements between business and education at different levels to provide labour skills at higher education institutions, in cooperation with the community and industry. I would like to pay tribute here for the work done in county councils to provide apprenticeship places. Close priority in the municipal budget often threatens the school structure. Through the Innovative Schools project, where information and communication technologies play an important role, the Government is committed to countering the closure of core schools in the districts. The 1999 budget decision reduced the ear-marked contribution to the school leisure system. Preliminary reports on the number of children in the SFO in the spring of 1999 from 14 states including Oslo show a decrease of 6.3 p.p., but there are considerable differences between states. From the autumn of 1997 to the spring of 1998, the same 14 counties were down 4.9 pst. The decline in this spring is not dramatic, and there may be several reasons for the decline. I want to keep up with this development. Greater differences in student and student backgrounds are an increasing challenge at all levels of the education system. Equivalence training involves individual adaptation and absences, not equal to training. The autumn of 1999 marks the start of the planned three-year competence development programme to qualify schoolleaders and to join the PP service for increasingly demanding differentiation tasks. Individual adaptation and vocational correction of training are the main themes of a broad experimental and development programme in continuing training. The government is investing in better organisation of the study situation for disabled students and provides services, among others: financial support for a pilot project in this area at NTNU in Trondheim. The government is also busy with the challenges of differences in culture, religion and ethnic background. The sphere shall develop Community awareness across increasing multicultural deficiency, but shall at the same time provide all the elephants with assistance in building up personal identity and developing a positive association with their own culture. I refer to the submitted mother tongue message that Stortinget has all handled. A dedicated working group is planning to transfer tasks carried out by the Sámi Education Council today to the Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi Sámi ICT represents an enormous educational challenge when it comes to content, organisation and learning. International evidence shows that targeted use of ICT as a work and learning tool increases motivation and concentration on learning and improves school performance for many elephants. Here the teachers are deciding their competence. ICT in training is an important development task at all levels of the education system, and the Government will present a revised action plan in this area later this year. ‘It helps corky timetables older instructions age some things; what makes the school what it is, it’s the teacher,’ Arne Garborg wrote in ‘Tanks and vision’ in 1878. Lasse Trädal in a chronicle in the Evening Post on April 7th this year gave an interesting recording from Norwegian school, where he is back as a teacher after ten years in another act. Changes in language, terminology and practice in the last few years "promote most of us", he says, and writes that teachers increasingly regard themselves as "management technocrats" or "production factors of the large enterprise AS Norsk School". Tredal’s ‘disease diagnosis’ can be summarised in the following quotation from the chronicle: ‘We forget – or don’t dare – our own experiences. ...Any specific experience and creation project can easily seem puzzled in this context.’» Do you think that we have not underestimated the dialogue with the everyday teacher in the reformist earlier in the 1990s? We also need a new thousand years of teachers as authoritative and skilled knowledge intermediaries and cultural workers. In the first place, the government is presenting a big message with a relatively wide discussion of issues related to recruitment to the profession of teacher, the situation of competence, working conditions and the status of teachers and schoolteachers. I would like to include: look at the relationship between the central agency and the local action room. I welcome the exciting initiative to try out new ways to organize and run schools. Local innovation work must not be hampered by contracts and rules that are not adapted to a new situation. From 1 August of this year, the new Training Act will give school owners greater freedom to define the content of functions and settings in the school. The government will consider in good time before the main tariff decision next spring whether the responsibility for negotiating salaries for teachers should be transferred from the state to the local government sector. Good learning quality requires commitment, motivation and constructive interaction between many actors, locally and centrally. Sociologist Andy Hargraaves, in a 1996 book on teaching and schooling, stresses the importance of ‘supporting and empowering the school cultures and participants there, so that they can themselves bring about changes in continuous development’. In line with this, the Government will in its work of renewing and developing quality education, interact more closely with local actors and stimulate innovation and development at school level, in municipalities and county councils and in right-wing educational institutions. I have on this background, among other things. take initiatives for compulsory cooperation with the Local Governments’ Central Associations, teachers’, parents’ and students’ organisations and the social partners on pilot and development projects in primary and secondary education. I believe that lessons learnt from local trials should be more widely used as a basis for assessing new national initiatives and actions in the years to come. Education policy shall continue to have a common framework and objectives, with government and enlargement as national trainers responsible for quality and equivalency in training. But the government wants a wide range of frameworks, simple central rules, more flexibility and extended scope of action for local shortages. As part of the development of the ‘Simplified Norway’, a State Secretary-General’s Selection assesses current regulations and regulations in the field of education. I want to dialogue with school owners and add questions about central regulation versus local governance. The local space can probably be used more than today, but I am still open to soften the national legislation where there are good reasons to do so. The recent state reports from the education directors show that the reform processes in the basic school are at their lowest level, where learning through play is given a more central place. I will now initiate a thorough review of the practice at the youth stage to assess what should be done and how much should be changed. I intend to come back to the Stortinget with a case about this next year, probably in the educational development message that I propose in St. report. No 28 for 1998-99. I now challenge everything to intensify development work, extend trials on the basis of new test shelters and specific efforts to pursue training aimed at young people. I don't want to at least have a project with a greater emphasis on practical working methods and more student participation. There is simply every reason to take seriously research that shows that greater student participation increases well-being and motivation. I also suggest that the Government has proposed limited local testing of alternative and more flexible resource allocation models at the youth level. Within my right-hand education, I have seen concrete processes in place to strengthen freedom of action at the institutional level, among others. in the case of the establishment of professional services. I would also like to invite you to review the use of national framework plans, primarily in teacher training and in health and social professional training. The institutions need flexibility and room for action in order to carry out conversion and innovation work. Detailed, mandatory framework plans can inhibit local creativity and professional development. At the same time, we need coordination, cooperation and quality assurance based on national objectives and quality requirements in the professionally-righted fields of study. It may be a dangerous way to replace some of the framework management with stronger quality assurance. In the revised 1999 national budget, the government will propose a system of audits with a net budget at universities in order to strengthen internal economic freedom and, inter alia, the free movement of goods. open to see operational and investment resources and external resources more closely. In my 1998 issue, I announced some relaxation in the division of labour between universities and higher education institutions. Last year, universities have been given the right to award higher education degrees for major subjects, in quality equivalent to the corresponding university courses. Some state universities have been given the opportunity to experiment with master's degree studies from the coming fall. The Ministry will decide in a short time, on the basis of a recommendation from a qualified committee, whether three state colleges will be entitled to the independent award of a doctorate. The recent final reports from the evaluation of the Higher Education Reform provide thought-provoking input to the discussion on right-wing education. The evaluation reports will be part of the basic material of the Mjøs selection, and Stortinget will be able to discuss the findings of the message that will come from the selection. However, I would like to consider mentioning some aspects of the evaluation in the budget proposal for the autumn. Universities and universities have gradually developed much externally funded research, education or other development and distribution work. The Mjøs selection has just delivered a separate piece of information on the organisation of such a task. The selection suggests organisation as a limited liability company or a state enterprise. I believe external mission cooperation provides a basis for positive development impulses for the sector, and I will follow the case up after a quick hearing. New training law allows school owners to make experiments that go beyond the limits of law and regulations. I want an active test shelter that stimulates local project ideas when it comes to content, work forms, organization and administration. I am particularly interested in experimenting with new approaches and new training practices. The government also proposes a separate experimental paragraph in the Law on Universities and Higher Schools to stimulate time-limited pedagogical or organisational trials. I hope that such a test shelter can come into effect from the coming fall. I expect this to lead to exciting trials in the context of local innovation and quality development, e.g. in the form of new forms of teaching and evaluation. We have become more aware that the different joints in the lifelong education chain are interrelated. Primary, secondary and, on the one hand, right-hand education provides a basis for later learning through life, not least by developing skills to use knowledge in new situations and to learn to learn. At the same time, the boundaries between initial, continuing and continuing training become more and more fluid. By 1 March 2000, a government-appointed selection, the Berg Committee, shall assess the specific training provision in the border country between the further education level and the right. It shall apply, inter alia: technical colleges, art training, secretarial training and Bible schools. When approx. 98 pst. of each year's coals complete further training, we also need to clarify the place where 'intermediate' training should take place in the community, as meaningful options for young people who want to learn more, but will not continue to study in universities or colleges. I am working with full strength to follow up the skills reform, in line with the Stortinget's management of St. reported. No 42 for 1997-98. For the Government, a broad and strong commitment from the employer and employee sides is decisive in this matter, which over time can mean much for employment and value creation, well-being and quality of life. Competence reform is not and should not be a scholastic educational reform. I therefore look forward to constructive cooperation with many actors in the Forum for the Development of Competences, which will have its first meeting in a short time. Continuing training has been central to wage-setting, through work in the Arntsen Committee and in the negotiations. The Prime Minister, in a letter to the social partners on 10 April of this year, has clarified how the Government intends to contribute to a low level of competence for adults. In particular, I would like to highlight the cooperation between working life and educational institutions on a broad competence development programme with development contracts and the development of new training provision. The government is committed to co-funding such a 400-billion programme. DKK over a two-three-year period, with the first commitment to the State budget for 2000. I believe that such cooperation will promote the development of flexible and user-adapted training provision. With the use of ICT and multimedia, much of the training could be carried out in connection with the workplace. New technology opens up competence doors that have been connected to many. This gives new and promising perspectives, not least from a district policy standpoint. ICT-based training is becoming increasingly important for skills development across the country, and needs for tailor-made provision to business are increasing. I want to stimulate educational institutions to provide decentralised provision through distance learning. Universities and higher education institutions are encouraged to meet the new challenges offensively, including: through the development of cross-institutional cooperation networks, international trade union alliances, project cooperation with the labour market and new online study provision. A lot of interest is attached to the question of giving grown-up opportunities to document what they can, and getting this real competence valued. This is important for individual adults, for flexibility in the workplace and for developing user-adapted further training. In the context of continuing training, education systems and the social partners are working together in a concrete way to establish functional documentation systems. On 19 April this year, the Mjøs Committee presented a joint report entitled «Real competence in right-wing education». After a hearing round, I will come back quickly with concrete suggestions for the follow-up to this presentation. I want to give grown-up opportunities to study at the right level, on the basis of documentation schemes with legitimacy both in the workplace and in the education system. The government is concerned that education policy should be five-fold about everyone, that no groups should be excluded. I consider as one concrete example immigrant and refugee women with so little basic education and poor language background that they do not have the power to support their children in schoolwork. The government, in cooperation with local government and migrant organisations, will monitor the level of education of these women and plan to adapt training measures for women with children. State reports show that it is necessary for municipalities to work more closely with the continuing training of minorities. The social and cultural changes in society lead many to experience life as a journey in landscapes without maps and pathways. In such a situation, not least young people need help to orient themselves. I agree with Professor Rune Slagstad when he writes: ‘More than anything else, today’s situation calls to teachers who can act as community spirits and who can give the identity of a school as a moral community.’ History has shown that the bearer powers of a society are largely linked to the anchoring of values and ethical qualities of the people. The government wants to stimulate the discussion of values in the everyday community where people live and interact. For children and young people, the school is such a community arena. The school will be a workshop for meeting and mastering the challenges of an increasingly multicultural society. Through my contact with Skule-Noreg, I meet concrete and exciting local value projects in school classes or in schools, driven by enthusiastic elephants, teachers, schoolteachers or parents. This is positive and promising. The work that schools do with value questions is really meaningful when it comes to concrete issues, such as working with human rights or local Agenda 21 in municipalities. I know e.g. to interesting projects in which elephants actively engage in practical energy saving measures at secondary schools. I'm busy with the ministry spreading positive ideas and reflections in this area. The new subject of Christian knowledge with religious and life views in the basic sphere shall be a meeting place for conversation and work on values and life views, across the outlook of life represented by the students. The state reports from the training offices show that the number of complaints to obtain full exemption from the education of the subject has decreased since 1997, despite the fact that the subject has been introduced in several classes. The same applies to the number of elephants kept away from teaching. I would remind you that, in the Oslo Byrett judgment of 16 April, the State is acquitted in acquittal proceedings against the Human-Ethical Federation. Saga's been notified of an appeal to the Lawyers' Court. The government will further develop the KRL subject and practise the exemption rules according to previously established main lines and intentions of Stortinget. Efforts to provide teachers and trainees with good follow-up training will be continued. In respect for religious or life-seeking integrity, it is important for me to know what elephants and parents experience as problematic or offensive. Practice shows that tensions around the subject can be dampened by dialogue and good information. I call on the schools to engage in constructive cooperation with parents in order to find a flexible exercise of the right to partial exemption. Negative behaviour, unrest and power in the school weaken the quality of learning. But learning environment work also has a value perspective. ‘Learning to live together’ is the first of the four UNESCO objectives for lifelong learning. The ability to communicate and cooperate are fundamental qualities in a successful family life, in business and in the development of democracy. The tragic event in Sogndal, which we were familiar with last week, has reminded us of the importance of the school taking on serious holding work. Here, as an adult, we must know our responsibility, both in school and in other social arenas. Findings show that networks of actions and cooperation between different actors give less choice and negative behaviour in schools and in the local environment otherwise. I challenge broad mobilization and hard work, nationally and locally, for a safe and healthy growth environment. The government has in this area taken the initiative of a project in ten selected municipalities across the country. In the project municipalities of Kristiansand, Lørenskog and Bøler, the metropolitan area of Oslo has been given ear-marked resources for special efforts to strengthen its role in the growing-up environment. The state reports from the education offices tell us that Skule-Noreg is actively committed to negative behaviour, bullying, drug abuse and selected through well-being studies, action plans and anti- bullying programmes, squamble projects, etc. Responsibility for pupils and active and committed cooperation between school and home is particularly important. We need an open and challenging dialogue on these questions. Parents have the primary responsibility for raising children and young people. Teachers cannot replace parents or take over the assignment. In this area, we also need close contact with and involvement of parents on the first years of continuing training. Ethics issues are also on the agenda for right-wing education. Last Wednesday, I welcome you to Norway World Conference on Research and Ethics under UNESCO. Following the initiative of the Stortinget, I will use the Norwegian Network Council to assess how ethics education can be strengthened at university and university level, and what measures can help to ensure a high ethical standard in the food and financial environment. A rapidly changing society has set great requirements for flexibility and adaptability. Therefore, we need a dynamic, not a static education policy. The government will look at established systems of new glasses and correct the course when good reasons warrant it. In concrete terms, I see, among other things: until exciting discussions and processes of change when the Mjös selection and the Berg selection next spring present their options on the way forward within right-wing education and on the so-called ‘intermediate level’. The government, as a vision, has to create greater quality awareness in and between all stages of the education chain. I'm busy strengthening schools, colleges and universities as cultural and valuable key institutions into the future society. The modernisation of Norwegian education in the 1990s has given us a good starting point for further development. Jointly overarching training targets at all levels also gives the course into a new millennium. At the same time, the Government will work for simplification, more flexibility and reduced central detail management through circulars, regulations, etc. I want to shift more of the development focus from central to local arenas, create more student, student and parent participation, and strengthen the interaction between school, working life and society. I invite dialogue, cooperation and wide and active involvement in the further development of a dynamic education policy along such broad lines.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e715	The President will propose that the Minister of the Church, Education and Research issue on education policy be dealt with in a later meeting – and see it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e727	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will suggest that lines are not allowed after the individual posts, and that those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This will be seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e736	Before the weekend, we received a recommendation on our shelves to limit ourselves to the rest of the Stortinget. I'm not going to spend the time I've been assigned, and I hope that I can go ahead with a good example in this debate. Actually, there's no reason why we're going to spend so long, because when it comes to what the message is actually about, the design of a fixed-rate scheme in the State's Education Loan Fund, it's a unanimous committee that agrees with the government's proposal. The background to this case is that a large majority in the treatment of the revised national budget in the spring of 1997 adopted a conversion to a market-based student loan rate. That decision indicated that the refunders would have the option of choosing a fixed rate. Market-based floating interest rates were introduced on 1 January 1998, leading to a fall in interest rates. The size was so much understood that it would take some time to put in place a fixed interest rate scheme. The 1998 state budget provided for the establishment of the scheme during 1998. Now that it has taken more than one year before a proposal was made, and more than a year and a half before the refunders actually receive an offer of fixed interest, a majority consider it necessary to point out in the vote that it has taken disproportionately long time for the Government to submit proposals for fixed interest. We also show that we found it necessary to promote a new proposal, which was adopted in the context of the 1999 state budget. In addition, the Government’s proposals to the 1999 government budget indicated that this scheme could be implemented at the earliest from the year 2000. Then it turned out that it helped that the Storting took the decision, because with the current treatment of this in the Stortinget, it is already clear that those who have debts in the Loan Fund, and who are on the payback, will receive from 1 July an offer for a fixed interest rate of 5.6 p.m. At the same time, developments in the interest rate market actually give hope that those who dare to wait may be able to achieve a better offer. Anyway: 5.6 pst. is a very good offer, and as it says in the newspaper today, it is much better than what you can hope for in a normal bank. In addition, it is worth noting that the Board of Directors of the Loan Bank has proposed a further reduction of half a percentage point towards the Ministry. The working party may not be seaworthy in the same way as, for example: SV, bind up 234 million. kr before the next year's budget for such an action, but it is clear that if the Government in the budget finds room for a reduction in interest rates, the Workers' Party will agree to it. On the right, SV supports this remark to lower interest rates, but it is worth noting that there is an interest rate reduction that they will finance by reducing the administrative costs of the Loan Fund. How to get something noticeable out of it when the operating costs today are at 190 million. I don't understand. We can take a little bit of hard and assume that the right will halve the administrative costs, so they can reduce the interest rate by about 0.2 pst. But halving the administrative costs is also unrealistic, so the interest rate reduction right here is the top of the order of 0.1 pst. And then in addition, a fixed rate system, for which the Right is for, will mean increased administrative expenses. Then it's going to be pretty little of the good wishes to reduce the interest rate by cutting the administration. As far as the design of the fixed interest rate scheme is concerned, as I said at the beginning of the article, it is a unanimous committee that endorses the proposal of the Government. We record that at the time available, it has not been possible to establish an ordinary fixed rate scheme because the social arrangements offered by the Loan Fund today have also been respected. I think it's worth pointing out that it's a unanimous committee that emphasizes the importance of social arrangements, among other things. borrowers may, for shorter or longer periods, be deferred and/or exempted from interest due to low income, sickness, etc. It is a unanimous committee which points out that it is a pre-requisite that those who choose to bind the interest rate are also included in the social arrangements and join the limits in relation to an ordinary fixed rate proposed by the Ministry. It's e.g. the need to bind the entire loan if you choose a fixed interest rate and that everyone is offered a three-year fixed term. At the same time, the Committee agrees with the Ministry that the scheme should be developed further, but that good information for customers is important in this case. With the restrictions that are now in place, there is a good part of those who pay back, who are not going to be offered a fixed rate. In the evening post yesterday it was found that 90 000 out of 440,000 borrowers will not be offered. It's according to the message and our connection to the three groups it's about. First of all, it concerns those who are under 18 years of age, but according to the message, it is a very small group. Secondly, those who have less than three years left to pay, i.e. shorter time than the three years that are the choice they get in connection with the commitment period. The third group is the ones that have defaulted. It's a unanimous committee that agrees with these constraints. Now 90,000 is a surprisingly large number. That's why I want to ask the Council of State about the distribution within these three groups. If a large part of the 90 000 are people with low debts and short periods of time left, it is quite all right, but if there is a large proportion that has arisen in the event of a default in terms of repayment, my call to the Council of State is to examine the issue and assess whether there are measures that can be taken, such as: that these refunders are given the opportunity to meet a case handler in order to agree on a new refund plan. If there are very many who have come into such a situation, there must be a sign that the loan fund can improve its procedures. A variant of this question I have addressed in the Questionnaire earlier this year, but I still want to ask the Council of State to comment on it today. Finally, it has been announced in this big message that the current conversion will result in new tasks for the Loan Fund. That's also one of the reasons why this has taken a long time to get there. Last week, Minister of State Enoksen was here in Stortinget and announced that the Government would go in to assign new tasks to the central government in the districts. It may be that State Council Lilletun will save on this raisin in the sausage for the presentation of the revised, but I thought – since there is only a week left – that the Council of State will already have the opportunity to tell us today where in the country the Government intends to outsource the new tasks that the Treasury will receive after today's treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e762	The Progress Party understands very well the frustration that many of the Loan Bank's customers have felt because they have not received the offer of a fixed-rate contract that was suggested. It's been too long to put this system in place. A large part of the customers in the Loan Fund are young people in the start-up phase, often with significant mortgages in addition to student loans. As a result, they have a vulnerability when interest rates jump sharply upwards. When you have a tight economy, the need for predictability is significant. Some of this predictability could have been ensured by a fixed interest rate mechanism. Fortunately, the scheme is now in place – late, but hopefully well. Why so late, you can ask yourself. This cannot be due to a lack of clear signals from Stortinget. The signals were already clear from Innst. S. No 285 for 1996-97, and the wish was to have it in place from 1 January 1998. I guess that's because of technical problems and maybe inertia in the bureaucratic system. The loan box is not exactly known for its flexibility, customer friendliness and speed. You can also notice that some parties in this case have made some comments in the setting, with general assessments around the Loan Fund. We have also given a few brief comments from the Progress Party. Among other things, we have Note that several times in the UK we have made proposals to deduct interest and discounts on student loans on the tax return. This would be a significant boost for those who are struggling with large student loans. We have also, together with the Right, expressed concerns about the administrative costs, and that these should not be inflated unnecessarily and permanently as a result of the fixed rate offer. We want to see any cuts in the percentage proposed for administration and losses related to the real costs in this field, and we are calling for a more efficient and flexible organisation in the Loan Fund. Otherwise, in the case of the SV proposals, the Progress Party will not vote in favour of them. I will follow the case rapporteur's example and cut down speaking time, and do not need to spend more of the Storting's time on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e779	The president was very much in favor of that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e782	The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government can now present an offer of fixed interest in the State Loan Fund for Education, while respecting the social arrangements offered by the Loan Fund. The central parties voted against when the Stortinge decided to convert to a market-driven interest rate, because we wanted to maintain the system of policy-driven interest rates. The strong increase in the floating rate of student loans based on market interest rates has made it difficult, with increased costs for many borrowers. We think that this situation could have been avoided, we could have more predictability and gotten less interest rate fluctuations if we had a system of politically controlled student loan interest rates. Once the market-driven interest rate decision is taken and the system is in place, the fixed rate scheme will be good for many borrowers because it provides more predictability. The Christian People's Party notes that several students choose to combine education with professional activity and that many have not taken up full-time student loans throughout the study period. For many, fear of debt is a reason why they have not taken up full loans, and it is probably often related to the question of expected and uncertain interest on the loan. We notice that this applies more often to women than to men, and is afraid of the importance it may have for women's choices in taking higher education. We believe that a fixed rate mechanism can help those who feel that they are dependent on a high level of predictability. The Christian People's Party wants to invest in youth and education, and then reasonable student loans with good repayment conditions are a prerequisite. We will stress the importance of the social arrangements in the Loan Fund, and that those who choose to bind the interest must also be included in these schemes. The Government and the Loan Fund consider that, in the interests of time, some limitations are necessary to put in place a fixed-rate scheme that can be combined with the social arrangements. The scheme should therefore be further developed. The Christian People's Party also sees it as positive that the scheme opens up the possibility for customers with fixed-rate contracts to pay extra in relation to the agreed payment plan. The Christian People's Party believes it is natural that the same interest rate charge applies to customers with floating interest rates and customers with fixed interest rates. We refer to the proposal of the Board of Directors in the Loan Fund to reduce the interest rate premium so that it is comparable to that of the House Bank. We support the Ministry's proposals on how to set the interest rate for fixed interest rates. With the changes that are now being made, the Christian People's Party believes that we have come to a better meeting of students and borrowers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e801	Study funding is important to provide access to higher education for very many groups. It is important for the students, and it is important for those who have completed their studies and come out into work. For students, cost standards are the most important. And what we're discussing today, the interest rate, is most important to those who're done studying and have come into the repayment phase. In recent years, the debate on funding for studies has become a major debate on systems. The long-term level of interest in the Treasury does not depend on the system – on political or market-driven interest rates – but it depends on the general level of interest rates and therefore on a general policy that keeps interest rates down. When it comes to the choice between policy-driven interest rates and market-driven interest rates, the important question is how best to smooth out short-term fluctuations. At a fall in interest rates, it is positive for customers with a rapid adjustment to the market. At interest rate rises, a less rapid adjustment is positive. I think there's reason to go under, based on what was said from the previous speaker, that even in the period we had politically driven interest rates, there were many cases where it paid off to go out of the Loan Fund and into private banks, because there was too little flexibility and adaptability to the market in the system that was then. Right, therefore, still clearly means that a market-driven interest rate reflects better the interest rate that is in society at any given time, and that we thereby escape the great difference, both positive and negative, that can be between a politically controlled interest rate and a market rate. But it was always a clear assumption that when market-driven interest rates were introduced, it would be possible to choose between a fixed interest rate and a floating interest rate. It has been too long before this fixed rate has been implemented, but when it finally comes into place – albeit too late – the State loan fund will be a very reasonable instrument and will provide students with a very good supply – as well as we can expect. There's one small exception to the last thing I said, and it's a moment that several of the parties are already involved, and that's the administration costs. Today we have the situation that it is added to 1 pst. on the interest rate in the Loan Box for partial coverage of administration and losses, which is called in the message. The corresponding mark-up in the House Bank is 0.5 pst. In the past, when this was implemented, it has been repeatedly pointed out from the Right side that it is a percentage that is too large. We have noticed that the board of state loan fund has now proposed to reduce this, and we are pleased to welcome that. There is something we will also support. The representative, Kollevoll, was involved in a calculation that I must admit that I did not fully understand. She claimed that what we learn will give a marginal decrease. But if we come down from 1 pst. to 0.5 pst. impact, it will give 0.5 pst. interest rate decrease. More complicated than that. We've been together with the Progress Party in the past. Now there's a new constellation, of Right and SV, which says it's too high. But SV goes a little too far in its proposal. They'll remove the entire administration plugin. We don't think that's serious, because it'll have to go beyond other important educational policy issues that we give higher priority to. But we're certain that the impact on 1 pst. must go down. It's too high. This will also help us get a lower interest rate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e816	Although we are encouraged to limit the debate, I allow myself a brief article. After all, we're all three independent parties in the government fraction. The central party has always wanted the interest on loans to students to be politically governed, but must take note that the bulk of the population will do something different. However, I note that the decision by the majority of the population that the Loan Fund should also have floating market interest rates is not in line with the wishes of the student and student organisations. They want policy-driven interest rates, even today, like many newly educated student debtors, as expressed in various professional journals recently. The majority point out in the setting that it has taken a long time to get this case out for Stortinget. I understand that it is important for the majority to stress this moment when we see how the market-driven interest rate has turned out for the students lately. Policy-driven interest rates would not have imposed as much financial burdens on students as they have now. It shall also be recognised in the majority’s observations in the vote. I think it is right to mention that the department has notified me of the practical difficulties it would involve in the necessary conversion, because the State loan fund's capacity is limited. Information on this was available, inter alia: of the proposal on the revised national budget last year. That being said, the Centre Party, on behalf of the borrowers, is pleased with the unanimous recommendation that the Committee is promoting today. The possibility of fixing interest rates is, after all, better than the unforeseeableness of floating market interest rates. The indebtedness of many students is real, and many take care of the reason for the job next to the studies. In addition to this being exhausting, the flow is delayed. The fear of indebtedness is most pronounced for women, according to the setting. Of course, this is unfortunate, as they get one more tougher everyday life than male colleagues. Based on these particular conditions and the overall borrowing burden, it is important to provide a better overall funding for studies. It is good that the arrangement that is now being adopted takes care of the social arrangements that the Loan Fund already has. The Central Party is also pleased that the Committee collectively indicates that the Board of Directors of the Loan Fund proposes that the interest rate premium for administrative expenses be the same as that of the House Bank, 0.5 percentage points. I believe it is essential to value investment in education and housing in the same way, from the point of view of a government loan offer. I trust that the Government will work for this in future budgets and work for improved student funding in general, in line with the Waxenås Declaration. I would like to say to the SV's proposal: in the case of proposal No. 1, the central party supports the content, but chooses not to take the rematch with the bulk of the population at this point, as we realize that we will lose it. As regards proposal No: 2, we also agree with the intention. But as I have already mentioned, we cannot support this, as it is scheduled to apply from 1 August 1999. There is no budgetary opportunity to implement, as I see it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e835	There are many good words about our proposals, but it is obvious that the representatives will not vote for them, despite the fact that they largely agree with us – there are many who have said so far. The debate on fixed rates often argues in a way that may indicate that there are misunderstandings going on. It is therefore important to bear in mind that fixed interest rates are a market-driven interest rate and that borrowers feel the need to have a certain amount of collateral for a certain number of years to come. The borrowers who bind the interest rate may not participate in any interest rate reduction, therefore the floating rate. Binding of the interest rate may have its advantages in periods where there is reason to expect interest rises. Similarly, many borrowers have experienced that the fixing of interest rates in periods when a decline in interest rates can be expected has been an acidic pleasure. The advantage is that one for the commitment period has the security of what the loan will cost, and one can plan his economy in a way that one cannot with a floating interest rate. We in SV therefore agree that there should also be offers from the Loan Fund for fixed rates. We realize that it will cause problems if you can choose different lengths of the binding time. We therefore believe that three years of commitment is an acceptable offer for the borrowers. We also accept that the bond must cover the entire loan. On the other hand, it is unreasonable that a premium of 1 pst should be imposed on top of the market rate. which is intended to cover administrative expenses. Instead of an interest rate of 4.6 pst., the offer will be an interest rate of 5.6 pst. The loan box has, as I said earlier, proposed to reduce this impact. We're proposing to remove the entire impact. I noticed that the representative Petter Løvik agreed that the application was too high, but obviously the time was not in time to do anything about it. He agreed with the Board of Directors of the Treasury, which has proposed a reduction. The actual ratio is that it's the Storing that has adopted this. We're the ones who have decided that it should be such a hit, and we're the ones who have to decide how high the strike is. That's why it's almost a coward to say that this isn't going to do anything to the Right, even if they think that the turn-on should be reduced. At least they should at least make a proposal. If they could not support our proposal, they should have made an alternative proposal. We therefore propose that the interest rate payable by the borrowers should be equal to the interest paid by the State for the money in the market. So someone wants to call this subsidization, because the income of the loan fund goes down. This is at best a misunderstanding. The concept of subsidisation has been charged in a specific way that allows a person to have some associations. Market interest rates assume that there is a market. Market failure is a concept in which market economists are very happy. And in terms of that kind of loan -- loans to finance studies -- I'm in great doubt if it's possible to establish some good market that can reveal what kind of interest the borrower is willing to give -- so in my opinion, it's a market where there's a typical market failure. And when we have market failures, say those who are decent liberals, we get the wrong allocation of resources. That's one of the points. My and our claim there is that when we use the interest rate established in the market for other types of loans, we get a wrong allocation of resources, because many who could otherwise study, or choose to take a course, don't. For example, they spend too much time. So we get a poor use of the social resources, so the term market-driven interest rate doesn't fit here, because we don't have a market. It is therefore the answer given by market economists in such a case that politicians have to intervene and regulate this market where there is market failure. And that's what we're proposing. We propose that we intervene and set the student loan rate politically. It doesn't mean anything in itself to say that it's going to be determined politically, but what we're saying is that the interest rate should be such that the real interest rate is roughly equal to zero. Then we answered the question. I'm taking up our suggestions. That is proposal No. 1, which says that we should go back to a politically driven interest rate, and proposal No. 2, which goes on the principle of roughly equal to zero in real terms.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e854	The President would say that he did not think that 'feeling' as a characteristic of another policy is an appropriate parliamentary expression. The representative Rolf Rikvam has drawn up the proposals that he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e859	Like many other borrowers in the State Loan Fund for Education, I am pleased that the Loan Fund will now be able to offer a fixed-interest scheme. The scheme will increase predictability for those who need it. When the Left voted against the introduction of a market-driven interest rate when the Storting adopted it in 1997, it was precisely predictability and stability for the borrowers that was important. The fluctuations that the borrowers have experienced in recent years could have been avoided if we had maintained the old policy-driven interest system. However, the market-driven interest rate decision is taken and the system is in place. Unlike SV, the Left does not intend to fight for a case that is too far lost. But as a majority put it – and I would like to stress here that the Left is in this majority, by mistake this is not expressed in the vote – debt fear causes many young people not to dare to take up full student loans. With a market-driven interest rate — and it is important to stress that the offer of fixed interest also depends on market interest rates — the main instrument to ensure low interest rates for borrowers in the Loan Fund will be to pursue an economic policy that ensures a generally low level of interest rates. For the so-called creation generation, which is struggling with both high mortgages and student loans, this will be very important. I expect the Government to have a majority in the Grand Duchy to conduct such a policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e869	I have noticed that the students want a politically controlled interest rate, and so does SV. But when we look at the experience we have with politically driven interest rates, it is not absolutely positive, on the contrary. As we see from the statistics, the interest rate in 1989 was 12.9 pst. It was 10.9 pst. in 1990, and it was 10.5 pst. of 1991. The interest rate was then politically overthrown. The size could intervene at any time and set a lower interest rate. It was not done, because it would lead to expenses that Storting had to cover. That's why I was among those who went in order for interest to follow the market according to a certain system, just to lower interest rates – and it did. The political system was slow, and we politicians were actually not willing to lower interest rates as we should have done the time we had a politically driven interest rate. We have a great responsibility to intervene if the interest rate is too high. I believe that the Storting must at all times follow closely the interest rate trend and intervene so that there will be affordable interest costs for those who come out of our classrooms and will settle with housing, children and nursery expenses. The most difficult phase of life is precisely the phase in which you have to pay mortgages, student loans, nursery expenses, etc. etc. There is also a broad consensus in the Stortinget that the State Loan Fund for Education should not function as a regular bank. We have the political goal with the Loan Fund that it will enable everyone, regardless of the economy, to take an education. We have to stick to this goal. Finally, we have had an opportunity for a fixed interest rate scheme, where the interest rate is relatively low – although in the private market it is possible to have fixed interest rates at approx. 6 pst. So much lower is not the interest rate in the loan fund, but it's slightly lower, and it's positive. The interest rate supplement adopted by the Stortinget, on 1pst., is now a broad consensus in the Stortinget that is too high. The Council of State will have a majority if he now proposes that the interest rate premium should be only 0,5 pst., which would be more reasonable taking into account the cost of distributing these loans. The house bank is doing it, and the state's loan fund should be able to do that. We have to follow developments closely and make sure that the State loan fund becomes the tool we want it to be, so that everyone can safely take education and be sure that they can also bear the costs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e882	Let me first say that I am very pleased that the Loan Fund can now offer a fixed interest rate offer from 1 July. Those who accept the offer will bind the interest for three years and during this period will not be exposed to the fluctuations that a market-driven interest rate will have. The offer will thus be more conservative. I know that there are many, including in this Chamber, who think that the offer of fixed interest should have been in place as of 1 January 1998, when the system of politically fixed interest rates was replaced by market interest rates. The reason why this was not done as quickly as one might wish was not an unwillingness on the part of the department, but that the introduction of fixed interest rates required major changes in the administrative system of the Loan Fund. The rapid changes in interest rates that we experienced last year updated the issue of interest fixing. The Ministry and Lånekassa have worked together to find a system as close as possible to a regular fixed rate system, while it has been important for the social systems of Lånekassa to stand firm. Of course, customers who have a fixed interest rate, like other customers, should be exempted from interest and deferred when their situation so warrants. Although I think that the department and Lånekassa have managed to get a good supply for the customers, I see that it had more time to do it better. The one thing I want to point out is that you want to see if it's possible to provide alternative binding times. It is also a problem that the Loan Fund today cannot provide new customers with fixed interest rates from the first offer date after they have completed their education. No in spring, e.g. those who are finished in the spring semester will not be able to bind the interest rate from 1 July, but will have to wait until 1 October. Over the turn of the year, Lånekassa will give priority to finding a solution to this problem. In St.meld. No 27, On the introduction of fixed interest rates in the State Loan Fund for Education, the Ministry says that borrowers with cancelled loans cannot enter into fixed-interest contracts, because the borrower would then have different interest rates on the loan, and this cannot be handled by the system today. Today there are about 50,000 borrowers with cancellations. But it's not as if these customers in the Loan Box have the worst economy. The Loan Fund has, as mentioned earlier, rules that grant the right to defer payment if one cannot pay for social or economic reasons. One example is the income-dependent reduction of the future amount – which makes it easier for those with the lowest income. Because the Loan Fund has a lot of borrowers with loans cancelled, I have started a work in the Loan Fund that is going to lead to a more individual handling. We are now in the start-up phase of this work that contains, among other things. voluntary debt regimes and individual repayment plans. It has been important for the Government that fixed interest rates should be given to the most possible, including those with a difficult economy, and it was therefore important that the social systems should be part of the fixed interest rate system. At the same time, the Ministry cannot go along with a system that makes a person feel worse about keeping the liabilities of the Loan Fund, even if they don't. But when that is said, I would like to add that it will be a challenge for the ministry in the future to facilitate better follow-up and adjustment in relation to the fixed rate system also for the customers who have received their loans cancelled. I listened with interest to the post of the case manager, and I thought that many of the dilemmas faced were well nuanced, but also how important it is that we have an institution like the Loan Fund. I'm very happy that there's so much excitement about the Loan Box as it is, it also applies to the foundations of why we have it. And it is a pleasure that the latest user survey shows a clear improvement when it concerns customers' experience of the service in the Loan Box. That's why I think the reinforcement we've been doing over the last few years at administrative level is right. When it comes to the proposal to reduce the interest rate charge from 1 to 0.5 percentage points, I've noticed what a collective committee says. I want to remind you that it was the previous government that introduced it. While there were 0.5 percentage points in the House Bank, there was 1 percentage point in the Loan Box. And I gave you a reason for that. I've noticed the point of view. I've also seen in letters to the committee what it will cost to change it, but of course, a call from a mass increase will be added to the weight, and then we have to include it in the budget work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e908	Let me first regret that the debate on such a limited matter has been as long as it has been. It's because of the simple fact that the government parties were unable to trust each other and have one spokesman, and then mathematics becomes so that we get a debate on something over an hour. In the years we have dealt with the Loan Fund where I have been in the Committee, it has gradually become widely agreed that the funding from the Loan Fund should be mainly within the study period. The reason is that it's the most targeted way of ensuring equal rights to education. Then a purely physical student meets and helps them to get an opportunity to take higher education, regardless of financial standing. By subsidising interest rates and adding subsidies in the refund phase instead, it becomes almost like driving sharp shooting with hail — a hit, but one hits everything. And one spends a lot of money on people who actually have the best paid jobs in Norway, and who in every respect really don't need that subsidization. That's why it's a little weird for me when the representative of Stratveit says that if we had a politically driven interest rate, you wouldn't get a high interest rate increase in the way we've seen it now. No, it is possible that we would not have got it then, but then we would almost certainly have got it later. Because I was going to like to see those budgetary negotiations with the Government and those group meetings with the Christian People's Party where they were going to try to raise subsidies to keep interest rates low at a time when you're going to get an impact on your heart's affairs. We know that during the budgetary procedure in Stortinget in the last two years, it is largely just the cash support that one has given funds to. I am not convinced that the government would have prioritised keeping interest rates low even if they had had that opportunity. Then there's a discussion in the setting of the interest rate premium to cover the administrative costs. It's of course interesting if the Council of State wants to come back to Stortinget with a proposal for a change of it. That's something we're going to do. But let me say to the representative Petter Løvik in his post, as well as to the Right-wing position in the position, which is in favour of reducing the mark-up, without indicating any concrete coverage for it, that there is a way to pursue policies that the Workers' Party will not be involved in. We cannot sit in the middle of the period and make proposals that we know will cost up to 234 million. kr in the worst case, with no indication of cover at all. The right-hand side suggests coverage at one point here, and it means that the bill of charge for administrative expenses can be reduced. But the administrative expenditure – the total expenditure in the Loan Fund – is 190 million. So I'm going to subtract 234 million. NOK 190 million. I'm going to have $44 million. kr. If you were to take all of this, you would simply have to put down the loan box and have it pay back 44 million. kr to the State annually to get this done. This is a calculation that is completely impossible to go into, and I think it's strange that you can't at least wait with it to the revised national budget, and then show that you're actually willing to do it, instead of bringing it in the middle of the period.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e923	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e926	I would say to the representative, Mr Norvoll – and I said to the representative, Mr Konglevoll earlier – that we have not come up with a concrete proposal from the Right today, but we have taken note of what we have said earlier that the administrative costs we have today are too high. We point out that the government of the State Loan Fund for Education has proposed a decline, and we welcome it. We have not put forward a proposal for a lower administrative supplement, but we will come back to this in the budget. It is not said that this should only apply to cheaper administration. But from the Right side – as we have always done – we will also – in future work to get a better student funding than the one we have had in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e933	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3016]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e947	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e956	Among our new countrymen and new country women, there are people with a long education and a high level of competence who have problems getting their approval within the Norwegian recognition system. At least it takes a very long time for them to be admitted to their education. To the extent that they get work, work is often not adapted to their skills. This is a socio-economic poor use of resources. For those who have a good and long education and who are qualified for a particular profession but with training from their home country, it is frustrating to have to thank them for their work that is not adapted to their educational background. When we also know that many of these people have a competence and education that is very much needed in our society, this is going to be wrong – it's going to be ripping wrong! I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee now wants to get ahead of the work on these matters. A unanimous committee calls for proposals to be made to the Stortinget in the autumn of 1999 to facilitate internationalisation. Then we also say – and it is important – that the responsibility for the recognition of education in order to be authorised for a profession and the recognition of North American education abroad is added to a new, possibly already established, body. We have several established bodies that can take that task, but the point – what is important and as the Committee would like to stress – is that we need to get ahead with this work. We need to deploy resources to exploit the skills of our new countrymen and landlords. That is why I am pleased that a unanimous committee is behind this. As regards the second part of the position, which relates specifically to teacher training, general teacher training and pre-school training, the Committee is divided. I believe that the Progress Party will present its comments and proposals. I understand that, in so far as there is disagreement, the disagreement goes on with the understanding of the department and the Council of State so far – the interpretation of the letters and the interpretation of the answers we have received from the Council of State. At least I perceive it so that the disagreement lies on that plane. The majority of the Committee takes note of the fact that the Council of State has taken initiatives in relation to higher education. They have now been given the opportunity not to require an examination in parallel for those belonging to foreign-language minorities, and also for those who come and have a foreign education, they will have it approved in relation to Norwegian teacher training, and those who are to take training in Norwegian or examination in Norwegian. We see that that's the correct understanding of these letters. On this basis, with the understanding and interpretation of the correspondence that has been, we believe that the intentions in Document No. The 8th Progress Party proposal is met, and the Council of State expects to comment on this in its statement – that our opinion is correct. And if our perception, the majority view, is right, as I'm sure it is, I feel that this matter is really up and clear in relation to what's going on in teacher education in general. I just want to refer to the setting and end with a wish that we have to get ahead of this, we have to do something about: get cleaned up in these conditions, which are unworthy both for the individual and for us as a society. We need that kind of labour.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e971	It is quite right, as the representative Reikvam said, that it is a question of interpretation and intention in the field of teacher training in general, because the majority has built up their argument about a letter of reply of 15 April this year, and refers to it in the case of general teacher training. But behind the letter of the Council of State there is also a letter from the Department to institutions offering general and pre-school teacher education and to the State Education Offices. Both these letters and the position of the majority are unclear in the opinion of the Progress Party. And I would think it was better not to interpret and not to understand by having clear, clear and written answers than to get up in this mess that we are now in. In addition, I would like to point out that Document No. The 8-proposal, which is the background for Innst. S. No 157, not only for teacher training, but for higher education in general received in non-EEA countries. Teacher training is used as an example in the proposal. We have been very well informed about teacher training, but with regard to the recognition of all other higher education, we have not received so much of it. Furthermore, I would like to say that the matter in connection with Innst. S. No 173 for 1996-97, which is used as a template, relates to approval, economics, equilibria and authorisation. It is pointed out – and in our opinion it is also quite correct – that this is a national responsibility, and that it must therefore be assumed that the approval is predictable and consistent regardless of who had to do it – whether it is the Loan Fund or a separate university office. However, it is now claimed that the delegation approval functions randomly. In that case, this consideration of integrity and predictability is not properly taken into account in the opinion of the Progress Party. We all read newspapers, from time to time when bad things have occurred, have been made aware of this through press releases. I would therefore once again be allowed to refer to the majority's observation that says: ‘The majority note that students from linguistic minorities who have been exempted from the secondary education examination will be exempted from the Norwegian I examination requirement in both forms of general education from the autumn 1998. In addition, the higher education institutions have been given the opportunity to grant exemptions for students who have completed teacher training without having passed the Norwegian examination on both target forms. The Ministry has delegated to the higher education institutions to grant a derogation.’ All of this is well and good, but I am very anxious, based on experience with general teacher training, that we can get back into the situation that we are training and approving, for example. teachers who do not have Norwegian on their schedule at all. It's a very big step for the Progress Party to join it. We have often pointed out from this speaker that Norwegian language is particularly important, not only for Norwegian citizens – we have minority groups like co-workers and women in Norway with historical rights to the country – but also for immigrants. I would like to point out again that the original proposal concerns all higher education courses taken outside the EEA territory, and not just teacher training. I will address my proposal, as referred to in Document No. 8:35, as I feel that the correspondence that has been conducted does not provide sufficient clarity as to whether you achieve what the Advance Party wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e989	Ursula Evje has addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e992	The representative of Ursula Evje, in his original proposal, drew up how to change the legislation so that, among other things. learning outcomes with Norwegian as a second language may be allowed to say education approved in Norway, without written knowledge in parallel. By letter of 3 March 1998, the Ministry has delegated to the universities a derogation from the requirement for Norwegian on both target forms in the teacher training of foreign language students who have a derogation from the requirement for secondary objectives in continuing training and foreign students who have taken up teacher education before 1998. The corresponding exemption from Norwegian knowledge requirements in both target forms has been granted where additional testing is required for the recognition of teacher training. In the temporary approved framework for general teacher training, students from linguistic minorities who are exempted from the secondary education examination in autumn 1998 may be exempted from the Norwegian examination requirement in both target forms of general teacher training. In Ot.prp. No 77 for 1997-98 is said to apply to foreign students. That is to say, the Ministry has fixed the amendment proposed in Document No. 8:35 for 1998-99. And I also confirm the understanding that the representative of Reikvam had in relation to how he had understood the ministry. In this setting, the Committee recommends that the following decisions be taken: «The Government requests the Government to submit proposals for the organisation of internationalisation, by autumn 1999 at the latest. The responsibility for the recognition of training in order to be authorised for a profession and the recognition of training abroad by the Nordics shall be added to a new body, if any, already established.’;» The academic recognition of foreign education and private education from Norway has, according to § 48 of the University and Højskulelova, been added to the institutions under the laws, i.e. to universities and universities. This is a system that we can find again in many countries. In this area, we now have a good tool with the Council of Europe/UNESCO Convention on the recognition of qualifications for right-wing education and training. Norway acceded to the Lisbon Convention on Thursday 29 April 1999. Among other things, the requirement that the processing of applications for recognition of foreign education should not exceed four months after all relevant documents have been sent to the approval body. In the case of the award of a professional title/authorisation, it shall, under Norwegian law, be granted by the authority granting an authorisation. This applies to both Norwegian and foreign seekers. In the case of the recognition of foreign teacher training, the Ministry of Church, Education and Research in St.meld. No 28 for 1998-99 Towards richer objectives, proposed the creation from 1 August 2000 of a national development centre for the assessment and quality development of the primary and further training, and the recognition of foreign teacher competence by this centre. The distribution of authority in the current law governing the recognition of foreign education and vocational training permits means that recognition authority cannot be added to an independent body without extensive changes in promises, such as: law on universities and colleges, law on health professionals, criminal law, statutory audit, veterinary law osb. This will be a long process. I have noticed that the Social Committee, in its proposal for a law on health professionals, did not propose to change the scheme for the authorisation of health professionals. I will continue to facilitate better procedures for the recognition of foreign education. The Information Centre for International Education, NAIC, is now organised as part of the Secretariat of the Norwegian Network Council and shall cover national functions. The application procedures for academic recognition are simplified compared to the previous ones, and the procedure has been shortened. The NAIC/NoregsNet Council provides information on the authorisation system and facilitates application management. NAIC can also provide an assessment of the extent of foreign education that can be used in job search. The Ministry of the Church, Education and Research should be involved in making this system better known, so that employers know what it is all about. The review of NAIC and the evaluation of the approval system could provide a basis for any changes. The size will be kept informed about this work. As can be seen from my post, we have already come a long way in implementing many of the Storting's intentions in the decision. But since this will require changes in promises, the ministry will need longer than the proposed ones. At the same time, the aim is to improve the recognition system for foreign education as quickly as possible and in line with the intentions of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1019	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1022	I think from everything that has been said – clarifications and repetitions, and all the good work that the Council of State has done from 1 March when my proposal was official and until today, both in terms of guidelines for educational institutions and in terms of other forums – that the work is very well taken care of, and I will then withdraw my proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1027	Ursula Evje has thus withdrawn the proposal she herself made. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3017]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1043	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by 5 minutes to each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1050	I think it is reassuring that the government has put the 2000 issue high on the agenda. In its second statement on the 2000 problem, presented to the Stortinget, the Minister of Industry has no doubts as to the level of ambition of the Government in this area. The so-called 2000 problem is basically innocent, that date-related systems do not tackle the transition from one century to another. And some of the consequences of this might also appear to be relatively harmless, like for example. parking machines do not function normally or digital time and date displays fail. It becomes much more serious when electromedical equipment in hospitals does not function properly or when electronic aids in e.g. offshore operations are collapsing. If such things go wrong, they could have serious consequences that put life and health at risk, or that could cause major environmental damage. There is also the risk of such and other potentially serious consequences of a millennium shift that has pushed forward increased activity by the Norwegian authorities in order to prevent the problems. As far as I can see, we are on track for the challenges of the year 2000 problems for central government. In central government, the 2000 problem is a line of responsibility and must be solved by individual departments and agencies, while the Ministry of Labour and Administration is responsible for the follow-up. Since the first statement about this in Stortinget, the work has been stepped up. The Councils of State laid down, inter alia: emphasis on the legislative review carried out in cooperation with Action 2000, the monitoring of the Ministry's supervisory management and a seminar for the Ministry and State Supervisory Authorities in February of this year. State supervision represents well-established channels for information and awareness raising, and I therefore believe it is important, as the Council of State underlines, that this is actively used in the year 2000 work. In addition, a quality review, or sample, of the year 2000 work has been carried out in some state agencies after the third status survey of the 2000 problem in July last year. Here, relationships were discovered that could be improved. A fourth survey has been carried out in central government. The results show that the year 2000 work now has a higher priority in most state enterprises. All of this shows that prevention measures in relation to the year 2000 problem have been adequately addressed in central government. The municipal sector is responsible for a number of services which, if affected by the 2000 problem, can have a major critical impact on the population. I am therefore pleased that the Government is following developments here carefully and critically, among other things. through the establishment of Action 2000, where the municipality sector is one of the main target groups. Nevertheless, there is reason to stress that this is primarily the responsibility of individual municipalities, and we know that some municipalities have still not taken the importance of this work into account. It is therefore essential that the focus of the Government on the municipal sector be maintained at a high level and that cooperation with the Municipalities’ Central Association be further intensified. Also in relation to the private sector, where the manager is himself responsible for the 2000 problem, the Government, through information campaigns and Action 2000, has tried best to facilitate good management of the challenges ahead. I share the concerns of the Council of State over the relatively low number of small and medium-sized enterprises that believe that the problem is not relevant to them. There is therefore a need for continued efforts, in particular in relation to information, to enable all business units using data or electronic production equipment to meet the 2000 problem in a sensible and appropriate manner. I also share the opinion of the Council of State that the voluntary line is the most suitable for business and also for municipalities. At the same time, we may need to recognise that there is a need for rice behind the mirror for those who do not behave properly. I am reassured by the government's handling of the challenges we face in the transition to a new millennium. At the same time, I feel justified in stressing that the main job of the Government is to create an even greater understanding of the problems that may arise if one does not implement the necessary measures in advance. Both in the public and private sectors, there will be a lot to gain from preventing problems, rather than having to find remedies for them afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1065	In the Workers' Party, we have registered with interest the statement made by the Council of State on progress in the work. I note that progress has been made in relation to the reports given earlier, that there has been a somewhat greater attention both in the various state enterprises and in the municipal enterprises — and to a certain extent in the private sector, even though there is a considerable need for them. Nevertheless, there is reason to stress, as the Council of State also makes in its statement, that there is still considerable uncertainty and that there are late completion dates for public activities — until November 1999. Then there is reason to remember that unlike very many other projects, this is a project with a definite date. 1 January 2000 is the deadline there, whether you are finished or not. If you did not get the necessary system in place, it would be too late. I also note that the Government concludes that, in the municipal sector, although a number of activities have been undertaken, only half of the managers of small and medium-sized enterprises believe that the 2000 problem is relevant to them. I agree with the Council of State that it is alarmingly low. I have also noticed that the Council of State has shown that there is still considerable uncertainty in very many critical sectors – not least whether the projects will be completed in time. The analyses focus a lot on internal systems as a cause of vulnerability, but there is little focus on dependence on external infrastructure and external supplies and border measures. Here we also face the dilemma that there is little use in preparing our own business, if you are dependent on deliveries from others who do not have the same degree of preparation. I therefore assume that the Government will also pay this great attention to the further implementation. We are fast approaching the current date – I had almost said at a high pace, but that is a fairly normal pace. I note, as I said, that something has come forward, but that it is still the case that there are still significant things to be done. I assume that the Government will have this strongly in focus, not least the emphasis that it is now extremely urgent to come up with the solutions that need to be clear. There are two issues that are not specifically addressed in the statement and that I would like to ask the Council of State to also focus. There are consumer issues where in some countries it has been relevant to include in new contracts clauses providing for product preparation for the turn of the century. It has also been relevant in other countries to assess systems that certify an activity preparation by the year 2000. In Sweden, there is a national standard that the manufacturer needs to clarify whether a product satisfies, and in the United States, recommended contracts have been developed, ten of which are clauses. These issues are not focused on in the presentation, and I would ask the Council of State to also bring them with them in the further work. In conclusion, I would like to point out that there is also a need to draw attention to international circumstances. It is as far as I have an overview of, no one who has taken responsibility for an overall global review of the challenges. Industrialised countries should see a specific responsibility to contribute to increased attention and ability to solve problems in developing countries, for example. the British Government contributed to a new World Bank fund to provide expertise and training in developing countries. Cross-border effects should also be of great attention to us and, in my opinion, particular attention should be paid to the management systems of Russian nuclear power stations near the border with Norway. It is of vital Norwegian interest that these management systems are not affected by system failure, and I would like to ask the Government to ensure that these facilities also receive the necessary preparation for the millennial change. We are facing a major challenge and a serious technical and economic risk. I find that we have come closer to being prepared for it, but that much remains, and that the time to carry out the preparations is getting smaller and smaller.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1084	Y2K is the name of the computer people for the problem we are discussing today. We in Stortingen are not alone in being concerned about the 2000 problem. I made an Internet search on the Y2K in Norway and got 3,733 hits. I did a couple of similar searches worldwide and got between four and six million hits. Now I didn't read all the documents, but I read some of them. I must conclude that the focus around the year 2000 problem is considerable. Both individuals, businesses, organisations and public authorities are engaged. On the Internet, I found public authorities' battle plans to solve the 2000 problem in New Zealand, Malaysia and the United States, to name a few. I also found the Norwegian Action 2000. I'm not a data expert, but I think what was presented seemed very good. There were good checklists, draft prospectuses and plans, and good links, which, hopefully, can help – and is a very positive contribution – to solving the problems you face, at least for those who have understood that this is a problem. In the Sponheim State Council's presentation, there are many positive and uplifting figures and information, but there is also a significant shadow side. Let me mention a few points: The experts believe that state budgets should now be in a testing and commissioning phase. Under 25 pst. It's yours. Although many have plans and are well in progress, no milestones have been defined in the work and thus cannot guarantee quality that progress is correct. There is a great deal of lack of contingency plans as to what to do if the data fails. Only 6-8 pst. had this in the public sector.5 pst. of the municipalities have not even started the work, i.e. approx. 20 municipalities, which is very worrying for the inhabitants of these municipalities. In municipalities and businesses, 25-33 pst has been shown. operational critical systems collapse during testing. This information should attract attention. You're late, but in most cases you're good at it. This makes me cautiously optimistic about the public sector. However, I am more concerned about business, and especially about small and medium-sized enterprises. At 50 pst. the problem is not considered to be of concern by the managers of such establishments. There are probably some companies that are not affected by Y2K, but 50 pst. – Very dubious. I'm just afraid that maybe it's too late to get started on these. The Progress Party has also noted that the Government does not find at this time that there is a need for further legislation in relation to the case, but that it will be assessed on an ongoing basis. We signal that we are ready to assess the measures that may be needed, whether economic or regulatory. The Progress Party does not promote any concrete proposals in this matter today. I still want to make a small contribution to the debate. Even if we were to do a good job in the public sector and in addition motivated and helped business to get the most in place there, something would go wrong. I don't think we're going to experience dark hospitals and passenger planes going to the ground, etc., but we're going to experience big problems in parts of the business. If only it would hit 2-3 pst. , there will be a noticeable impact on GDP, currency, interest and employment, etc. Have we properly charted these relationships? Is this a task of the Government, of the departments or of the Statistical Central Bureau? I understand that the OECD has made some general assessments of the problem. What can we learn from these assessments? These are some questions that should have been asked – and preferably answered – before the harvest budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1124	What is at least certain is, as Schjøtt-Pedersen said, that this case cannot be postponed, because the thousand-year shift is coming, okay. The year 2000 problem in general was very focused a while ago, but has probably been less focused lately. It may come from an overfocusing initially, or you may have managed to solve the challenges you felt you were facing. But it's, as was claimed by previous speakers, a big global commitment to this matter, you can see that on the Internet. My main impression of the statement is that it reassures me in the sense that I experience that the Council of State and the Government take on their responsibilities in this area. They have discovered some things that are not in place both in central government, in local government and in business. The fact that you are aware of the problem itself and what has not been done is so important. But there are some points that I think should call for perhaps even greater attention than what has been shown to now, and the Council of State said so far in the statement that it would happen. In order for action to be implemented, it is necessary to have identified the situation, not only in central government but also in local authorities and, not least, in the business community. There's two points that there's reason to worry about. One is the situation in the municipal sector. I think that when we get the next statement, there should be a complete overview of the situation in all Norwegian municipalities. It was supposed to be relatively curative by using the apparatus you have through the county office, to get such a screening, even if I see that you have to take some samples, etc. But there should be a complete overview somewhere, the sooner the better. The second point concerns business. That is, as the previous speaker said, 50 pst. by business managers in small and medium-sized enterprises who say that this is irrelevant to their industries and to the individual’s enterprise. I think that's a little alarming. Now it is not easy to put concrete measures into place in relation to individual enterprises, but at least one instrument has a total public sector, and that is that it is the largest buyer in this country. Public sector purchases amount to DKK 180 billion. The wide-ranging public sector demand evidence in relation to the issue of the year 2000 in order to ensure the delivery of goods and services even after the new year could help raise awareness in small enterprises. And I read in the chapter that goes on business, that the government says that they initially want to mobilise for voluntary action ‘through positive action’ towards both municipalities and businesses, but are set to – if necessary – also implement legislation and regulations in order to do what has to be ‘do’. In order to implement such measures, it is necessary to have an overview. From the Right, we are definitely prepared to support such a line if it turns out that basic welfare goods are at stake in terms of deliveries from municipalities, from the state or from business. But I think maybe the most important contribution to business is that we get consciousness into the entire government on the purchasing side. In addition, I think it is important that the Government and the Council of State take responsibility for the whole of society for the year 2000 issue. But of course, the operative is with the municipalities, and that pointed out, also in business, and it's just joining. But, as I said, perhaps the most important thing about business is that we gain consciousness, and demand – as many other nations have done, and as previous speakers have spoken about – this in contract form.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1141	Since the last report on the 2000 problem, which was related to the State budget in the autumn of 1998, the government has intensified its efforts to prevent problems linked to this millennium. The 2000 work is therefore given a very high priority in the Government, both within the College as a whole and by the individual specialist Councils, which are responsible for their respective areas. In the work, we emphasise that the year 2000 problem is a management responsibility at all levels. Existing and ordinary administrative responsibilities are therefore maintained. The year 2000 problem covers different parts of our modern information society and illustrates, among other things, the problem. of mutual dependence and vulnerability, of course also internationally, as the representative Schjött-Pedersen stressed. It is worrying to get reports from many countries. Last night I had the opportunity to talk to Hong Kong's finance minister, who is responsible for these questions, who told me they had come a long way there, but he was very concerned about neighboring countries around him, as they observed had come very short in dealing with these questions. After all, everything is linked to everything that a great politician has said. It tells a little bit about how problems can reproduce across borders. The year 2000 problem covers different parts of our modern information society, and therefore this vulnerability illustrates that dealing with this problem is not only a computer science but also a management and organisational challenge. For many, the 2000 problem will also be an opportunity to clean up and renew IT systems in its own activities. The paradox is that you do a good job of preparing, you also have a modern, up-to-date computer system to live with after you have, hopefully, come through this millennia passage. There are now only eight months left until the thousandth anniversary. I have a clock that counts down on days – there are 242 days left – so that every day I should be reminded that it is an important time. The government will continue to focus mainly on prevention. At the same time, however, it is necessary to prepare for remedial measures in case of 2000 problems. It is important – eight months in advance – that we are still aware that it is not too late. There's a lot to do still. It's very dangerous now to go out and say that we're through the problems in some areas, because no one knows the size of them and where they can show up. It's very important that we now from different teams focus all the time on solving these problems. But then to what may be necessary to initiate remedial measures. It is enough that, although we have done a lot of thorough preventive work, there will never be any guarantee that everything will work as usual at the turn of the millennium. That's why I think it's important that we have a certain degree of humility in relation to being able to say that we're now kind of done with the job. I don't think we're going to be completely, but we're going to do the most important thing, I hope. The government’s last statement reveals that there are still gaps in the management of the 2000 problem in Norwegian society. It is therefore necessary to step up work, both in the State and municipal sectors and in industry. Priorities need to be implemented in the year 2000. The social critical sectors are particularly important because failure in these areas could have far-reaching consequences for other sectors. The likelihood of failure of telecommunications and power supply is considered to be low today. Based on the available material, the government believes that it does so per year. at present there is no imminent risk of critical failure in the basic services of central government. In my presentation I also pointed to, among others. the water supply and social and health sectors, which are particularly closely followed up by the Government. In further work, the government will use the supervisory authorities to contribute to the best possible preparedness for the transition to the year 2000. In addition to the provision of information and awareness-raising, supervision shall also be used to carry out the necessary direct action in line with the current legal basis for the activities concerned and, if necessary, to initiate supervisory proceedings, as also called for by several of the debaters before this one had to do. It is the individual department responsible for monitoring the supervisory bodies in its own sector. There is a risk that businesses and establishments that do not solve their 2000 problems can cause serious problems and financial losses to others and also become liable for such losses. This should in itself be a strong encouragement to take the year 2000 problems seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1160	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1163	It is quite strange that in this technologically advanced data age, we have experienced such a situation that technology does not pin the transition to the year 2000. It might have been possible to predict, so that one would have avoided these problems at an earlier time. But it's too late, so leave it alone. The distribution is in many ways a little out of the ordinary. It is said in the conclusion that there is some serious lack in both the public and private sectors. There is still a lot to go wrong with the New Year's Eve. We are now writing May 1999 and, in my view, we should have left behind monitoring and analysis periods for the longest time. One should also have implemented the corrective measures, so that what could now have happened in the last months towards the turn of the year was a test. On the basis of precisely the concerns expressed by the distribution itself, I have to ask a little more about the possibilities for imposition and enforcement measures, which are also mentioned here, which permits it, and what kind of preparedness and plans the Government has in order to possibly initiate it. Because it turns out to be the driving and information role, among other things. Action 2000 has, so far has not been good enough. The second thing, as the distribution says very little about, is the relationship with other countries, and what cooperation the Government has with other countries facing the same problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1174	It was the Government's ambition in this statement to put words on the fact that we have a lot to do yet. There is still a basis for concern. I would have felt the responsibility very heavy if I had gone to this pulpit eight months before the turn of the year and started to inform the Norwegian community in this area. Then I had really taken on a great responsibility. It is important to say that a lot of good work is done, but a lot remains. That job must be done, and there must be a great deal of pressure on everyone who has a responsibility in the future. In this way, I hope that there is no basis for security signals until we have actually passed this day, because it is not possible to give. It is clear that it has taken time to get speed in the areas where the government does not have direct command line. This applies to the municipal sector and not least to the enterprises. This means that Action 2000 has a continuous measurement of how this develops. Fourth measurement will be published tomorrow. The figures, as I have heard from them in the first place, show that significant progress has been made, not least in the municipalities. The municipalities have now organised themselves and have an overview of the problem, but not everyone has done the job yet. This means that significant progress has been made in the municipal sector. But once again, it is essential to stress that there is no need to rest for anyone. There are eight months left – the job has to be done. For enterprises, the situation is probably worse, even though there are clearly better figures than the previous measurement could show. It's an increasing consciousness. Still not enough done. It will probably be that for some enterprises this is not relevant. That's the way it's going to be. But for many who haven't started doing anything yet, it's relevant. As regards the need for legislative and regulatory measures, it is continuously assessed. Now we want to continue the volunteering line. Slowly, but surely we will consider coercive measures if necessary, and then we have a lot of legislation in the different sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1185	There are enough of us meeting the numbers that are planned to come in May, and I understand that some of them are right around the corner. It's going to be exciting to see how evolution has become, and if the numbers are positive, we're obviously going to have to be satisfied with it. It is very well presented by the Council of State in the statement given, as well as in the debate here. The focus now on harm-reduction measures is good. That you want to take the international perspective, too, is good. However, I tried to make a small contribution, which I still feel is unanswered, and which I could imagine the views of the Council of State. Whether we do a good job, something will go wrong. It will not only lead to problems in delivering different goods and services in society, but will also affect our economy as a whole. If only it were to be 2-3 pst., it would have a significant effect, among other things. on GDP, currency, interest, employment, etc. Have these possibilities been identified? I also mentioned that the OECD has made a number of general assessments. Are you familiar with these? And have you ever found anything you can learn from these assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1195	I'm going to be so direct and honest as to say that we've spent all our resources focusing on the ongoing tasks that you need to solve in the Norwegian community to get the most painless through this problem. To address all the issues of a problem that is so difficult to address – because it is quite impossible to know the size of the problem and to get an overview of the consequences it can have in a global context, on the economy, when problems reproduce across national borders, etc. – is an almost impossible task. I have to admit that we have not used the government apparatus to address these issues. But, of course, we have let ourselves be informed of what is available from qualified research and other studies and opinions on this – some believe that this will have some dramatic consequences for the world economy, as some companies have said, while others do not dimension the problems so much. There is no doubt that we are facing a problem – we are going to notice this. The size of this is what's hard because we don't know. In such a context, faced with so much uncertainty – and there I think we should be honest – I think there is one thing we can do, not become apathetic because of the possible horror scenarios, but use forces and resources to minimize the problem as much as we can, and keep the pressure on everyone who has a managerial responsibility, who has a responsibility to do something about it, and so make sure that at least we are able to bring the most through this. I should have liked to have used a lot more words in terms of how the world community is able to get hold of this and guarantee our transition during the 2000s. I'm afraid I'm not able to do that. I can just say that we are doing the best we can, and we are increasingly using a lot of resources and focusing on all of these areas that I have mentioned, also in the areas that have been addressed in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1204	The council said that in many ways this was a little difficult to deal with. It's a little vague, so it's not that easy to think about, and you almost have to use some energy to find something to line up with the Council of State. But when it comes to becoming apathetic, I don't think there's any chance that it'll go that far, and that it's uncertainty, is too much. That's why we need to figure out what the situation is. In the previous presentation, some of the departmental departments had not drawn up their contingency plans – it was varying to what extent they had done what they should have done. In the presentation by the Council of State, the Departments of Trade have been asked to submit a contingency plan in the areas of social crisis by 1 May, i.e. four days ago. I could imagine asking the Council of State whether the sinks in the class have come after now, and whether everything is now in its best order, at least in the departmental departments, so that there is order in their own house at least. That's not too much to ask for. The council said he would like him to use more words about what was done, and what is done. It is not essential that a person uses large words, but I have the confidence of the Government that it does what is necessary. I can at least promise that if it wasn't to be done after the New Year's Eve, he doesn't have to worry that there's someone in this room who's apathetic.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1211	Of course, the Stortinget and the representative Gabrielsen should have confidence that the Government is doing what is to be done. So do we. Now a lot of work is being done on many fronts, and it is also very heavy in the government, on the individual councils. It may not be a point in itself to tell from this pulpit about the internal life of the government, but we often go around the year 2000 where we stress the responsibility for the different areas, to keep the pressure on that responsibility. As far as the State sector is concerned, the Minister of Labour and Administration will have comments after me and go through the more specific areas there. But, as I said in my presentation, the areas in which we have direct command line control and where the work has started very well. I hope it will be possible for us with a very high degree of certainty as we approach the critical time – a few months before the year 2000 change – to be able to revisit the part of the state sector that will affect the infrastructure we are engaged in. I said we have to have a reasonable humility to the extent of this problem. The problem is isolated very specifically, but it's a huge volume problem, and getting an overview of the size is difficult. But when I say that we could be frustrated if we start looking at all the horror scenarios that are drawn into the global economy, etc. when it comes to this problem, it must not give us such an mood that we are not able to get to grips with the specific problems. That's my whole point, and the government is just focusing on the infinite number of concrete issues that need to be solved. I hope we do that in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1220	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1223	Today, the year 2000 work is given high attention and priority also in state agencies, as the Sponheim Government Council has also pointed out. The recommendations for increasing the rate and resource input after the status reporting in the autumn of 1998 appear to have been well followed. Per. Today, there is no imminent risk of critical failure in the provision of services by central government during the millennium. But important tasks remain: Many agencies still have extensive tasks in the field of design and testing before their systems are safe in the year 2000.A significant effort must be made in risk and vulnerability analyses and preparedness planning. It is the major states that have the heaviest tasks in relation to the year 2000 problem, and often the greatest impact on society in the event of any failure. These are consistently better off than the smaller floors, and it is reassuring. Ministrys shall ensure, by August 1999 at the latest, regular status reporting, that milestone plans and contingency plans are available for their underlying establishments and that systems and equipment of significant importance for government response have been corrected and tested with regard to the year 2000 error. The aim is that the IT systems of state agencies should be year 2000-safe by 1 October 1999. In central government, working on the year 2000 problem is a line of responsibility. It is the individual department that has to solve problems related to its own systems and equipment. The Ministry of Trade and Commerce, on its side, must have a close follow-up to work in its underlying offices. As a result of its coordination role, since the autumn of 1996, the Minister of Labour and Administrative Affairs has been working on awareness raising, status reporting and supporting joint actions in relation to the year 2000 work. It is important to balance the principle that each State agency solves problems in its own area of responsibility against the need for central follow-up. The ordinary management of state budgets by ministries shall be the main channel for the follow-up to the 2000 work. At the same time, we are making clear demands for progress and quality in the work that is being done, and during the last year we have strengthened supportive joint actions in order to make work more efficient and easier. I would like to mention some concrete actions that we have taken in our follow-up. We have intensified the follow-up to work on state common systems. We have set up an example project at Akershus High School, where the work is quality assured, the pace of the 2000 work is forced, and documentation from the project is disseminated continuously to the central government. We have worked closely with all departments. We run samples in all departments for quality review – a type of quality assurance that has proved to be very useful. We give priority to critical areas of work, and we also have closer contact with the role of state supervision in this respect. In the statement by the Minister of Industry and Trade last week, it was stressed that State supervision should be used more actively in the year 2000 work, both as information channels and if necessary as a matter of urgency, in line with the current legal basis. In cooperation with the departmental departments, we follow this up by completing an overall overview of the legal basis in the various sectors and by organising seminars for relevant departments and supervisory authorities. The year 2000 problem puts the ability of central government to adapt and manage problems seriously, but experience will also strengthen the management of IT vulnerability in the long term. The review of the computer systems and data equipment also leads to cleaning in many establishments, so that data operations become more efficient in the long term. Therefore, the targeted work done by central government today to address data problems at the turn of the millennium will also have more long-term positive effects.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1259	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[See page 3017]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1273	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 5 minutes, Progress Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 10 minutes, Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1282	The Judicial Committee considers the annual report of the Data Protection Authority to be important information. It is an annual update of what is done to ensure that personal data is not unlawfully made available to unauthorised persons. In order for the Storting to be up-to-date and possibly to address relevant issues, it is important that the annual report be submitted to the Committee as soon as possible. An old annual report has historical interest, but loses much of its timeliness for Stortinget. We have underlined this earlier and re-examined it: the Ministry has to work hard to make its comments so quickly that the Storting can deal with the annual report in the following year. The Annual Report of the Data Protection Supervisor for 1998 is available, but without the comments that follow when it is promoted as a single notification. For this reason, I do not want to be involved in any of what we expect to be submitted to the Committee later this year, when the 1998 Annual Report is being discussed. The Annual Report of the Data Protection Supervisor for 1997 has different contributors when presented to the Stortinget as St. meld. No 15 for 1998-1999. The main body is Chapter 3, which describes the issues and issues involved in 1997 and Chapter 4, which describes the management of activities. These two chapters would normally be called the factual part of the Annual Report. The Committee has, in its opinion, related comments to these chapters. I'll come back to some of these. However, the main part is presented in Chapter 2 of the Director’s 1997 description. Chapter 1 is the comments of the Management Board. These four chapters are Annex I of the Storing Communication. The Ministry begins with the main idea behind the Data Protection Act and the activities of the Data Protection Authority as of 1 January 1980. Furthermore, the Skauge Committee’s investigation, NOU 1997: 19, is referred to as the reason for the proposal for a new law on personal data. Next, the Ministry concludes with comments on some points in the Annual Report of the Data Protection Supervisor before the following Annex I. In its comments, the Committee points out that the issue of the division of competences between the Management Board and the Director/Administrative Board was commented on by the Justice Committee at the Innst. S. No 107 for 1997-98 in the context of the 1996 Annual Report. This means that the committee responsible for leaving the issue is located until it may be promoted as a matter of urgency. I still allow myself, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, to comment on something from the director, board and department say about the matter in their presentations. We consider the Director's description to be important, even though it is subjective enough to cause debate. The board uses approx. half of the representation on the status and structure of the relationship between supervision and the board. We believe the department did right when it did. ‘recommended the new Governing Board to continue established practices in the relationship between the Governing Board and the Director, pending the Enlargement in a broader context, to address soon the issue of the organisation of the Data Protection Supervisor.’ No 15th The Christian People's Party believes this is a neat procedure. However, we do not share the following statement from the Director: “After the notification year has ended, the disagreement has found its solution.” Here, it may seem that the Director of the Data Protection Agency is pushing ahead with the outcome of Stortinget’s treatment of the organisation of the Data Protection Authority. The Christian People's Party also notes with interest the input of both the board and the director to the question of how the Data Protection Authority is to understand, as an oversight or an agent. We take this with us when Stortinget in a broader context comes back to the issue of the organisation of the Data Protection Authority. The Committee has considered it necessary, in its observations, to stress that it is the right and duty of the Grand Duchy to assess the need for strong data supervision. As a consequence of this assessment, Stortinget makes its allocations to the Data Protection Authority. The assessments made by the Ministry on the same subject will only be regarded by the Stortinget as advisory. The high rate of technological development and changes in society brought about by new technologies seems to reinforce the importance of data protection. This is also apparent from the issues and issues discussed in the 1997 Annual Report. Through the comments, a unanimous committee shows its attitude to the individual issues. I don't think it's necessary to repeat these here, but I'll highlight three aspects. The first concerns bonus cards and electronic tracks in the trade in goods. The Committee cannot see the need to collect information through a bonus card for the purpose of using the information in the marketing. In any case, the card holder must have agreed that, in addition to registering award credits, the card may also be used by card vendors to collect consumer information. We find it interesting when the Data Protection Authority raises the issue of whether you can view personal data as a means of payment. The customer receives bonus credits in exchange for information about himself. But we fully support the supervisory view that the customer can only make conscious choices about how to use the bonus card when the customer is well informed. Another case that must also require the customer's permission before the information is used in marketing to the customer himself is, for example: the use of transaction data by banks. No one shall be able to assume that information from an agreement can be freely used in its customer service in order to form a picture of the customer, so that the bank or the company can present its tailor-made offer to the customer in the next marketing advances. No, there must be consent to such use. The last relationship I want to point out concerns the study on privacy attitudes. Not surprisingly, it is important for individuals to have rules for the protection of privacy and the right to privacy. At the same time, however, a robust majority demonstrates that increased control and monitoring can be carried out at the expense of privacy when it comes to combating crime or clarifying criminal acts. In addition, the Committee fails to comment on the critical views of the Data Protection Authority on the sub-position II of the Methodological Committee. This is to be presented to the Stortingen for treatment as a matter of its own, and we will then comment on the individual views and issues. The same applies to proposals for a new law on the processing of personal data notified to the Stortinget in June. There is a unanimous vote by the Judicial Committee recommending that St. Announcement. No 15 for 1998-99 — Annual Communication to the European Data Protection Supervisor 1997 — annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1323	I would like to comment on some points in the Annual Report from the Data Protection Authority for 1997. One was the case rapporteur. It's an annual report that's two years old. The last time will examine the annual report of supervision, was also the two years before it came to treatment. It is not to be concealed that the initiative is waiving when old annual messages are to be processed in this way. It is a paradox that the Annual Report deals with today’s technological sub-data. It should at least be expected to have newer versions for treatment. It would also be of great benefit to the Data Protection Authority if that were the case. Increasingly widespread use of computer, especially in the workplace, has led to the need for new information security guidelines. The Data Protection Authority emphasises the importance of guidelines and safety regulations for the processing of personal data. There is concern that Norwegian companies make illegal registration of the use of the Internet by employees, because no one has yet applied for a concession for such registration. The Party may initially agree with the need for the protection of individuals in relation to the need for control of holdings. The consideration of the individual will weigh heavily. There must, of course, be a balance between what businesses can use of information about the use of the Internet by individuals. The argument that employees spend their working hours surfing the web is not always a good enough argument for registration. Enterprises will probably need statistics and overviews of how the Internet is used in the workplace. Such surveys may require some enterprises to develop general instructions for network use. When penalties are first imposed on employees who use their working hours to visit websites and who cannot be related to their tasks and who are more dubious in nature, they are subject to concession. There is a code that the Data Protection Authority is working on, and it will probably work according to its intentions. In that case, the dilemma must be that this cannot be said to work satisfactorily, since no one has applied for a concession for such registration. What is done to inform businesses and employees about the privacy in this connection is highly suspended and does not appear in the notification. Another theme is electronic tracks in the transport sector. They're taking a motorist on the roads in particular. Monitoring of drivers is becoming more and more common, and one has to question which privacy threats such registrations and information can represent. In view of the truly harsh, violent crime that is growing in this country, it would be right for the Data Protection Authority to highlight the threats that electronic tracks can represent in the transport sector while clarifying which measures can or should be taken to limit the use of this widespread registration. Further monitoring of the road network has been commented on in the Annual Report — monitoring for the use of television cameras and sensors recording traffic flows, traffic density in order to ensure road safety, as it is called. Today, photoboxes along our highways are becoming more and more common in order to be able to fine drivers who drive 10 kilometers or more too fast on the highways. In this area, there will be systematic recording of information that can be linked to identifiable objects and also individuals. In this area it must be said that the protection of privacy is not adequately protected in relation to other registrations, as duly mentioned in the notification. This is a point I miss from the Data Protection Agency, and I hope that it will be highlighted in the next annual message that will be on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1336	In a society that is changing faster and faster, and where new technology is increasingly making it impossible, there is a greater need for data protection than ever before. Technological possibilities must not be used without thought for the consequences for the people affected. Many small interferences in privacy, which can be defended individually, can quickly become unacceptable as a whole. It will therefore be a major challenge to do the most important thing first – to weigh every proposal carefully, depending on whether it really is necessary, or whether we can cope without it. There will be enough organisations and administrative bodies to argue for new registration opportunities. Then we need a strong counterweight, active and operational data supervision. This has been emphasised by the Stortinget in its annual budget discussions, and we reserve the right to focus on that. This is a responsibility incumbent upon the Storting as the country's top decision-making body in front of everyone else. The Committee has also made this quite clear in its position. In the age of technology, it is a great paradox that the Judicial Committee deals with annual reports to the Data Protection Authority for 1997 in 1999. This does not testify to efficiency or particularly up-to-date insight. That is why it is good that the Committee now asks the Ministry to bring back a year, so that next spring we can deal with the 1999 notification. There is also an urgent need to submit the law on the processing of personal data, and it is good that this matter is now included in the list of matters that the Danish Government has notified Dørum of this year. The main issue of the message is a strengthening of privacy and a strengthening of data subjects' rights. We need both. On the right, the Data Protection Authority agrees with the restriction on the access of toll companies to record people’s time and place of passage and that the image register is to be used for the purpose of charging and only that. The right also agrees that in the case of transaction data relating to bank accounts to be used for marketing purposes, customers have to be guaranteed an opportunity to reserve themselves against this, as the Council of Europe Recommendation states. The right further supports the work of ensuring prior warning to data subjects in the context of a new registration of data relevant to one’s credit rating. It is important that individuals know what information is stored about them, not least in order to correct incorrect information. I am pleased that the Data Protection Authority has a keen eye on monitoring e-mails, telephone calls, etc. It is not acceptable for businesses to check the e-mail messages of employees, because they often have an informal character, and in many respects they are more to be regarded as oral informal conversations than formal letters. It is also good that the Data Protection Authority requires that the recording of telephone calls on audio tapes be notified in advance and that consent is obtained. On one point, however, I would like to warn the Right to accept new methods, even if they have privacy implications. This is the case in the Methodology Committee and the fight against serious organised and international crime. I am very pleased that the Dørum Council so clearly announced the need for this in its national meeting speech, and I share the views of the Council of State. The 1997 public survey of the Data Protection Agency also shows that, in the fight against crime, people are willing to put this concern ahead of others. This vision is also strongly supported by the current leader of the VG, who concludes as follows: ‘It is not the case that legal certainty has been taken into account. It is such that increasing and more dangerous crime threatens legal certainty. And then the police organization and methods must be adapted to the forms of crime taken." The right-hand side agrees. But these are exceptional cases, and it obliges us extra to keep privacy considerations high in other contexts, as those I have mentioned here, to ensure that privacy as a whole does not come out worse than today, but that it is strengthened on the contrary. Also in this area, it is possible to keep two tanks in your head at once.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1372	During the period prior to the processing of the Annual Report of the Data Protection Authority one year ago, there was a significant concern about the Data Protection Authority. There was a conflict between the director of supervision and the board of directors. In the light of the work carried out by the Government in this dispute within the Data Protection Authority, and to which the Government was given – I allow myself to use the wording – the hesitant support of the Storting, we have had a constructive calm about the Data Protection Agency in the last year. In that context, I allow myself to remember that the Left had a significant commitment to this process, and will express on behalf of the Party joy over the situation that has been in the Data Protection Authority for the last year, and that I allow myself to see as a direct result of the Government's efforts in relation to the Data Protection Authority. The annual report from the Data Protection Supervisor, which we are dealing with today, is a communication for 1997. However, although it had been notified for 1998, there would probably have been one of the latest annual reports from the Data Protection Supervisor on its current form and on its current legal basis. We are in the situation that the legal basis on which the Data Protection Authority operates is subject to revision, and that in a relatively short time we will receive proposals for a new treatment law in Stortinget. It is important, then, that the bill survives the processing of Stortingen in such a way that we ensure even more independent data supervision – or what name one would now give to the body established under the new law. The Data Protection Authority has been and is an important guardian of privacy, and on a number of occasions we have seen clear examples of the importance of having a strong and independent watchbow on behalf of privacy. For many reasons, there is strong pressure on privacy, highlighting the important role of the Data Protection Authority and the importance of supervisory activities. It will not necessarily be such that even a strong data protection-oriented party such as the Left will always agree with the Data Protection Authority. However, it is important that the perspectives and the approach of the Data Protection Authority to represent them become important elements of the public debate on the various issues. In this context, we also need an overall debate on privacy, a debate in which we might go a little bit deeper into what values privacy really represents, and perhaps come a little deeper into what it is that we see as important in privacy. It is often easy to make good statements that privacy is important, and then you have a counter-respect, and then you say: Yes, privacy is important, but it must nevertheless give way to that very consideration. It is a little important to have a thorough debate on the more detailed content here and what privacy really is supposed to do. The annual report debate on the Data Protection Authority is the height of privacy in the Stortinget. This is when you underline the importance of privacy and come up with fewer counter-representations. But that's what we do between the annual report debates, which will really be crucial to the position of privacy. It is a good thing that in some cases, not very few, the left is in the situation that we believe that other parties have too easy to deal with systems and measures that conflict with privacy, and that, in concrete terms, privacy is not given the strength that it should, in our opinion, have. I would like to mention at least three things that we see as important. One is the question of public space surveillance — video camera in public places. The second is the question of electronic tracks in different contexts, and perhaps in particular I would like to highlight the third, that it is also important to be concerned with privacy in relation to larger private organisations and institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1387	Privacy is facing emerging challenges, not least as technological and economic developments are accelerating. The Annual Report of the Data Protection Authority for 1997 provides us with a picture of some of the hazards that the development can represent for the individual. I have noticed that the Committee expresses satisfaction with the Data Protection Authority in a number of cases. This is a satisfaction I share. As the Committee stresses, there is a need for good functioning and operational data supervision. During the reporting period, there was a conflict between the Management Board and the Administration of the Data Protection Authority. The conflict has, as you know, been about whether the Management Board should be fully responsible for the activities, and therefore also deal with administrative matters such as the budget, the business plan and the accounts. The conflict ended as known that the board members chose to resign. The Ministry asked the new board to continue established practices pending the Stortinget's forthcoming consideration of the issue of the organisation of the Data Protection Supervisor in the context of new data protection laws. I have received feedback that the board and administration are now cooperating well. The Ministry of Justice will soon have completed its proposal for a new Act on the processing of personal data. The objective is to promote the proposal for the Storting in June. I have noticed that the Committee requests the Ministry of Justice to be speeded up with its comments on the Annual Report of the Data Protection Supervisor for 1998 and next year. The Ministry sent out the annual report at the beginning of March. The deadline for the hearing was 9 April. The ministry is now awaiting the latest hearing opinions. Further work on the Annual Report will be prioritised and likely to be submitted by mid-June. The Ministry of Justice is also responsible for the regulation establishing a central booking register. The register was scheduled to start in 1999. This is apparent from St.prp. No 1 for 1998-99, chap. 462 pcs. 5.5. The budget for 1999 for the Brønn Island Health Registers was cut by 6 million by Stortinget. kr. Within the given budgetary framework, the Brønnøysund Registers must give priority to the tasks already assigned to them. In view of this budget cut for 1999, it may be difficult to set up a central booking register this year. Like the committee, I am not commenting on the procedure at this stage. In a short time, the proposal based on the setting of the Methodology Committee will be promoted for Stortinget. I aim to promote the proposition in May. Let me also briefly say something about the Committee's comments on the understanding of roles between big business and government. Of course, it's obvious how it should be. The government presents its view, but it is the Stortinge that decides what the framework should be. There can be no doubt about that. How that doubt may have arisen, I should not wonder. I just want to see that the rule has to be the same as I'm now expressing. Therefore, I have no problem understanding why the Committee expresses such a view.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1408	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1411	One of the main ideas behind the Data Protection Act and the activities of the Data Protection Authority is to maintain the privacy that everyone is entitled to when personal data about him is registered or otherwise used. We stress that this consideration is becoming increasingly important and more central as technological development speeds up. We also express a degree of impatience in the context of new data protection legislation, and record that there is still no draft new up-to-date legislation, but that this has been announced this year. The impatience also applies to the observations on the Annual Report of the Data Protection Supervisor for the previous year. As it is today, the annual report loses much of its timeliness. We therefore ask the Government to promote the 1998 Annual Report as quickly as possible so that it can be addressed in the current year. With regard to the conflict between the Management Board and the Administration of the Data Protection Supervisor and the division of competences in this respect, the Committee on Legal Affairs refers to its comments in the 1996 Annual Report. From the Labour Party, we are pleased that the Ministry is proposing to follow existing legislation and established practices until the Stortinget has addressed the issue in the context of new legislation. We are pleased that the Data Protection Authority has developed new guidelines on information security and the general rule that sensitive personal data should be included in a dedicated computer system. This is important. With regard to electronic surveillance, the Data Protection Authority has as an important task to make known the monitoring potential of the technology. We don't want the activity log in a computer system to be used to control users or employees. We stress that the employer cannot check the e-mails of employees, the web pages of the e-mails, that such monitoring is neither lawful nor acceptable in Norway. Furthermore, it is interesting to note that the fight against crime and the detection of criminal offences are seen as more important than data protection in general, and that increased control and monitoring can be carried out at the expense of other values, such as: privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1428	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[See page 3017]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1442	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 15 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group, and after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that the speakers on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1451	The representatives of the Progress Party Simonsen, Stang, Kleppe and Terje Knudsen have submitted a private bill on an action plan to increase the security of police officers. As rapporteur-in-Office, I will review the proposals – and after the numbering – contained in the document and, on some points, refer to the changes contained in the minority proposals. The Committee as a whole agrees, and stresses in its comments, the importance of ensuring the best possible security of police officers and not being exposed to unnecessary hazards. The entire committee also agreed when we in the Budget Centre. S. no. 4 in November 1998 decided to ask the Government to review the police situation in the fight against violent crime and to assess measures that could further strengthen the police’s work situation and provide better criminal law protection for each police officer. Furthermore, the same decision asked for an assessment of whether police officers can give witness tests under given conditions without having to give their full identity and, in addition, for further legal protection, an assessment of the introduction of higher penalties and, where appropriate, minimum penalties. The entire committee welcomes the fact that the department has started this work. But there ends the consensus, and the political road elections appear, with comments and suggestions from the Right alone, from the Progress Party alone, some common from the Right and the Advance Party, majority remarks where the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party stand together, and where the Right is on some of them. Proposal 1 of document No 8:8 applies to anonymous witnesses. The majority propose that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol. The reason is that the Stortinget has already taken a decision on anonymous witnesses, which I referred to under the general comments of the entire committee. The majority find no reason to repeat it, not least because the Ministry of Justice, in a letter dated 4 February of this year, gave feedback that they are already working on proposals for anonymous witnesses. Proposal No. 2 of the document and minority proposal No. 3 applies to the advanced weapons depot. The majority's position is that the proposal is rejected. The reason is that the intention of the proposal is already respected. According to the applicable guidelines, the local police chief may authorise forward storage of weapons in vehicles. The majority believe that it is right that this authority is with the local police chief. It is at local level that the best prerequisites are to determine the need for advanced stockpiles of weapons. There is also no desire from the majority of the committee to force the country's police officers to advance the weapons depot. We trust that police officers as senior officers will ensure the security of police officers and that the necessary decisions will be taken in close cooperation with the police's security officer. Proposal 3 of the document and minority proposal No 2 concerns the investigation of the armed situation and training. The majority reject the proposal, as we believe that the intention of the proposal is already respected. The Ministry of Justice stated in its letter dated 4 February of this year that they ‘have an overview of the number and distribution of officials in the police and civil servants’ seats’. They may indicate that there is ‘an approximate 100 % coverage of each operational official’. Furthermore, a satisfactory number of two-arms are distributed to all police districts, and there is a very satisfactory response when it comes to sharpshooters. The Ministry has a good overview and therefore the majority of the Committee cannot see the need for an inquiry. The level of training is high and there are several types of courses. To date, specific earmarked funds and ammunition have been allocated to police departments to carry out annual police operational training. The Letter from the Ministry of Justice dated 4 February of this year also states that there is a ‘satisfactory number of two-armed weapons... distributed to all police districts in order to have a proper level of preparedness of so-called ‘enforcement weapons’. Furthermore, it states that ‘it is not known that the dimensions of other foreign police forces are the number of two-armed weapons according to the number of operational police officers’. We cannot see that in Norway we have such conditions that it is necessary to start a new trend in this area. Proposal 4 of the document and minority proposals – proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, and proposal 8, from the Right – applies to life imprisonment for the killing of public officials. The majority of the Committee rejects proposal 4, since we do not want to reintroduce rules on life sentences. The intentional and deliberate killing of public officials may result in the strictest penalties imposed by the law of 21 years and, where appropriate, in special reactions. The majority of the Committee believes it is right that the penalties for this type of crime should be up to 21 years, as such irregularities should be severely punished. Proposals 5, 6 and 7 of the document concern increased penalties for violence and threats. The majority of the Committee proposes that they be annexed to the minutes, without any further consideration of their substance. The justification is as previously stated that the Stortinge in connection with the treatment of St.prp. No 1 for 1998-99 asked the Government to consider introducing higher penalties, including, where appropriate, minimum penalties, in order to improve criminal law protection for each police officer. The majority do not consider it appropriate for the Storting to take a new decision on these matters or to consider the facts of the proposal as long as the Ministry states that the proposal relating to penalties and minimum penalties is already being dealt with in the ministry. As the rapporteur, I noticed that the Progress Party has changed the content of proposal 5. In the document's proposal, there was an embellishment of the penal framework for violence and threats against police officers, and that was a little surprising. That was clearly not what they meant to do either. But when the Progress Party amended proposal 5, they deprived the majority of the opportunity to show that we did not want an embellishment and on that basis could reject the proposal. – That’s the policy. I shall therefore refer to the Committee's recommendation for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1483	The representative Åse Wisløff Nilssen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1486	After the review that the case spokesperson had, where she also referred to the plural remarks on which the Labour Party is involved, I do not have much to add. For us in the Workers' Party, it is important that we get an action and security plan for police officers. We have in fact said that at the end of the budget. S. No 4, II, for 1998-99, where we took part in the plural decision, which in many ways may be grounds for resuming here today. It tells you a little about the unnecessaryness of Document No. The 8 that we are dealing with today is in reality. It sounds like this: ‘The Government is asking the Government to review the police situation in the fight against violent crime and to assess measures that can further strengthen the police’s work situation and provide better criminal protection for each police officer. – In this context, it is assessed whether police officers under given conditions are able to testify before the court without having to give their full identity. – In the case of further legal protection, it is considered to introduce higher penalties, including, where appropriate, minimum penalties.’ This setting was submitted by the Committee before Christmas and was discussed here in Stortinget. Ergo has not had any special time on his treatment, and I expect a proposal to come soon. I'd like to comment on the security conditions of the police officers. For us in the Labour Party, it is important that we have good working conditions for officials, whether they are in the police or elsewhere, that they should be able to work under safe conditions and have a good working environment. We do not want legal security to be weakened, and are in favour of assessing anonymisation in connection with the testimony of police officers. Given that we see that the crime scene is changing, that we are constantly getting a tougher environment, and that the risk of being harassed or persecuted in retrospect, is open-minded, we want to evaluate anonymous testimony for police officers in some specific cases. We don't want states like us. sees in other countries that one has to go underground, or that the family is being harassed. We don't want this kind of development. As I said, we would therefore like to have an anonymous testimonial assessed, and that only one should have to provide the service number during the testimonial. That's what we think is satisfying to give us the legal certainty that we're going to have when we deal with such issues. We have the confidence in the Ministry of Justice and the political leadership that when we have made a decision in the Grand Duchy in the form it had in the election, they will come back to the Grand Duchy in such a way that the proposal can be defended and that we can go into the individual actions through the proceedings. We can point out that the Methodology Selection has promised to present the setting in ours, and it will be natural that most of these questions have been addressed there and will be said to resolve through treatment in the Ministry of Justice and here in the Storting before the summer vacation. In other words, what I have now said is that for the Labour Party, it is not necessary to mark in Document No. 8 proposals that we are concerned with police and legal security when we have a majority decision in the Storting that addresses these important questions, which in reality takes some time to be presented to the Storing. The fact that we are concerned about the security of service staff is also embedded in this, and for good reason, we are quite happy with the option from the majority and refer to the ministry working on matters – in the certainty that they will come to Stortinget, and that we will then be able to take them up in the width that they will have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1508	Crime in Norway has become much harder in recent years. It has become much better organised, the use of weapons is more widespread than before, and police officers are more often exposed to serious threats than in the past. While organised crime from groups linked to Yugoslav environments, ethnic Albanians and the Vietnamese Mafia is becoming increasingly brutal, we also see a trend towards tougher criminal youth environments, where young people often act together in groups of ethnic origin. This is young people who have already developed a culture of weapons and lack respect for dignitaries at an age down towards or below the criminal lavallier. It is essential that effective action is now taken to regain respect for the police, while at the same time providing better protection for the police. This is the background to the proposals of the Progress Party, which all intend to help the police in the difficult task of setting limits on undesirable behaviour, influencing the attitudes of young people in a positive direction and combating serious violence, rancidity, drug crime and other types of organised crime. It is alarming that the Progress Party appears to be alone in five of the proposals, while only the Right supports the other two proposals. The first proposal obliges the Ministry to proceed with the necessary legislative changes needed to allow police officers to testify anonymously to Norwegian courts. We know positively that there are several examples that police officers have received killing threats. Last year we experienced a tragic double drop in police officers. With the hard-boiled criminal environments that we have received today, especially those from the former Yugoslavia, I fear that it is only a matter of time before such threats are brought to life. Norwegian police take on an exposed job voluntarily to ensure the lives and health of the population. The least we can give back is to do everything in our power to safeguard the lives and health of officials. The proposal of anonymous police witnesses should be a matter of course to support. Nevertheless, it will be downhearted. The argument is that the Government is working on a proposal for anonymous witnesses in connection with the follow-up to the decision of the Methodology Committee, after the Stortinget asked for an assessment of such a proposal. However, we know that a large-scale notification following the selection of the Methodology Committee can only be addressed by Stortinget to the autumn. Only after it has been dealt with can the Ministry follow up on legislative proposals. A decision of principle today will speed up the final decision that will ensure better protection for the police. I hope Norwegian policemen will notice which parties believe that it is not urgent to adopt access to anonymous witnessing, and which parties believe it is actually urgent. Just because policemen have a profession in which they daily put themselves at risk through their close contact with criminal environments, it is both necessary and reasonable to provide police officers with the additional protection in that violence and killing of police officers is penalised more severely than similar acts against civilians. If we give the courts access to jail police killers for the rest of their lives, and not just for a maximum of 21 years depending on whether the killing is planned or not, there's a hope that the mob organizations will think about a second time before going to such a step. The extra protection of such access should be a matter of course given to our police force. I expect that many in the police action will notice that the Christian People's Party, the Senter Party and the Workers' Party are satisfied with today's low maximum sentence of 21 years – the same parties have previously voted down proposals that a criminal should punish the whole sentence – and that one can escape after two thirds of atoning. The Minister of Justice, from the Left, recently stated that he would be hard on the hard ones. I guess that should also apply to the mafia's assassins in connection with police killing. I am therefore keen to see how the representatives of the Left are dealing with the proposals of the Progress Party. Norwegian police officers should also note that the members of the Committee of the Regions feel that there is no urgency in adopting tougher measures against police murderers and against those who commit gross violence against policemen, and that they vote against the proposals of the Progress Party on the grounds that waiting for proposals from the Government should be promoted. It could take a long time. The opposition from the Right and the other parties to taking this opportunity to adopt minimum penalties and stronger responses to the mob that is trying to prevent police work and that pose threats to policemen is, moreover, not in keeping with the experience gained by the Committee during the New York comiteration. By striking down on the type of crime that many in Norway believe is less serious, the police there have contributed to the necessary demarcation of young people and have prevented many young people from embarking on a criminal racetrack. That's the same thing we need in Norway. By hard hitting the shikas and threats against police officers, and by knocking harder on mobs trying to prevent police work, people spitting policemen in the face, throwing stones at the police, or refusing to get rid of them when they are asked to do so, we can have limits set and thus increase respect for dignitaries. But the other parties will not be in it, nor will the Right – at least not now. The Joint Police Association has addressed the role of police in society in a letter to the Value Commission. This letter points out, among other things: the increase in the use of weapons in criminal environments and the sharp increase in the number of terms used in weapons, resulting in very strong psychological pressures on police personnel and their families. Despite this, the majority of the committee does not want to lift as much as a little finger to ensure police officers have better access to effective weapons that can provide maximum security when you first end up in a shooting episode. The current situation is unsatisfactory. All operational officials have a personal weapon, Smith & Wesson, but at distances of more than 10 metres, the MP5 machine gun has the best impact safety. This weapon exists only a limited number at each place of employment. It is extremely unfortunate, as this weapon has an adjustable view that makes it important that the official who has a fine-tied aim is also the person using the weapon. Otherwise, the shots may fail. It may cause unnecessary damage to the person against whom it is necessary to fire. In addition, only a small number of these weapons have laser screens that contribute to increased impact safety and allow faster release of the shots. In other words, much remains before the weapon situation is satisfactory. The same applies to weapons training, which is currently limited to an operational course of 40 hours per year, of which only approx. 10 hours for shooting training. However, the Ministry believes that everything is very well, and then of course the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Workers' Party mean the same thing. Our approximately 8 000 competent police officers should note that these parties, and probably also the Left, cannot even accept an investigation of the weapon situation with the aim that all the officials should get their own personal handguns of both types as soon as possible, and preferably MP5 machine gun with laser vision. The Progress Party has put forward seven proposals that will make life safer for our police and their families. It is frightening and alarming that the Workers' Party and the Government's parties do not wish to support any of these proposals, while not taking advantage of the opportunity they could now have to make alternative proposals. They let everything move on, just like it's always done. Had it been about their own life and their own health, they might have shown a slightly greater power of action. This is bad. It is also bad that the Right will not take this opportunity to adopt stricter criminal responses.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1536	Will the representative Simonsen present the proposals to which he referred?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1539	The representative Simonsen will do that with the greatest joy – it includes two proposals where the Right is with the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1544	Jan Simonsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1549	I don't stop wondering about Jan Simonsen's rather fresh and bold statements both about the values of the proposals he himself makes, and about what that means that others didn't have to support them. The fact that the proposals he makes on behalf of the Progress Party are not readily supported is not necessarily the same as thinking that everything is very well. It may in fact mean that one believes that work is already being done to prevent unwanted activities, and that other proposals or measures than those for which Jan Simonsen is in favour can be better suited. And first of all, how many police killings have we had in Norway that, in Simonsen's opinion, could have been prevented by an increase in the prison sentences from 21 years to life sentences? I actually have a desire to know, like roughly, how many things could apply. Secondly, when it comes to the armaments of the police – one proposal here at least goes almost there – can Jan Simonsen imagine that it could actually help to increase the use of weapons among criminals, and that we would simply get a lower threshold of arms in our society and thus greater uncertainty for the police? And finally, in a bit of the post, the representative Simonsen referred to ethnic ties for different people who commit criminal acts. Now it's that the background can be of importance. We have different luggage with us. The Minister of Justice has on several occasions said that a citizen is a citizen regardless of the colour of the skin, and a criminal is a criminal regardless of the colour of the skin. Is that an opinion that Jan Simonsen agrees with?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1561	Of course, the last thing I agree with is a hundred percent. I referred in my post just to an actual relationship. With regard to the armaments of policemen, it is therefore the case that this forward-looking weaponry system that is being proposed already exists in many political chambers. The system means that you have weapons locked in the cars, so you have a faster access to the weapons if something happens. The scheme is used by some political chambers, and the chief of police has decision-making powers. It has been a wish of the Police Joint Union and the Security Ombudsman to introduce the scheme in several other political chambers where it is not currently in use. That is the background to my proposal. But it is a system that already exists in several political chambers. Of course, I do not expect the rest of the Stortinget to vote in favour of proposals they disagree with. However, some of these proposals, at least one, all in the main hall agree, namely the proposal to allow anonymous police witnesses to attend Norwegian courts – because once the Minister of Justice has gone out and said that he accepts anonymous witnesses, it must of course also apply to policemen. The only consequence of voting against my proposal now is to delay the entire procedure. If you wanted to get ahead of something you already want, you could use this opportunity and vote in favour of the proposal. Fortunately, there has not yet been the killing of police officers in Norwegian mafia or criminal environments. But it's important to be in advance of evolution, and when you see how much tougher organized crime has become in recent years, we know that this is something you can risk coming. Indeed, the background to my proposal is prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1572	I noticed that the representative Simonsen in his post pointed out that the Labour Party, in conjunction with the Centre Party, opposed the proposals he made in this Document No. The 8th proposal. I would like to point out that we have not gone against the proposals, but we have pointed out that there is a work going on in the Ministry of Justice in the context of the Committee's budgetary position when it comes to these things. That's why – I'm sorry, President – it's very natural to believe that as the Progress Party progresses, it's a Document No. 8 proposals in this way, there's only one purpose for it, and it's to get a certain amount of attention on these questions and their lot in such a way that they're more concerned with this than others. I would like Simonsen's confirmation that the Labour Party has not taken a position, but will wait for the submission from the Department, which is promised to come in ours. A few months can't mean much when it comes to the security of the police. At the same time, I'm also a little concerned with the same thing that Hove mentioned when it comes to using weapons. The fact that the police are calling for more visible weapons in society is a sign to people that it is legal to use weapons as a protection. We have used ourselves as an example in many ways – we are not a police state that uses power and weapons. In fact, I believe that the example has greater power than the one that has weapons available, when one sees how few cases one actually needs weapons in the Norwegian police force today. I hope Simonsen can reflect a little bit on that prevention is not necessarily to go forward with weapons in hand.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1581	Let me repeat that the system of advanced weapons depot already exists. I just want it to be extended to a number of police districts where officials may wish. I really hope that the Workers' Party is not opposed to this forward-looking weapons depot scheme, as it might now sound like, because it's pretty heavy when there's some dangerous episode, that the police have to drive miles and miles into the nearest county office or police chamber to pick up their weapons. In fact, it's often been a very long time before you get back to the crime scene. In fact, with regard to the proposal for anonymous police witnesses, which the Labour Party initially agrees with, a decision today will speed up the final legislative change from one to two years. We know that we get the method selection setting in the middle of May. This means that a rollover message cannot be dealt with in Stortinget until the early autumn, and then you will have to come back with the necessary legislative proposals. So that process can take a long time before it finally becomes a decision in Stortinget. I note that the Labour Party is not against the proposals of the Progress Party. They do not yet know whether they are against or in favour, but I note that they are against voting in favour of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1590	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1595	Genderism in heavy and criminal environments is no longer just possible to sit and watch. We know that police officers must have been guarded 24 hours after threats from the Mafia community, and we know that children of police officers must have police guards to and from school and kindergarten. Threats and firearms have become common in these criminal environments, and the law today forces police officers in charge of investigation and intelligence to appear with a full name and address in court cases, with the hearing bench full of criminals they will later be working against. It's not durable. That is why it was so important to have the budget agreement of the Justice Committee in December, in which we both asked for a reinforced criminal law protection for police officers and for the opening of tests of witnesses under anonymity under given, defined conditions. To get a good justice policy, it has to be an interaction. The Committee interacted in December. There were no parties who opposed these important proposals. Now we've got a state council that also interacts, and we're very satisfied with that. State Council Dørum was crystal clear in his country meeting post, which is referred to in the evening post on Sunday 2nd May, where he announced that the government will go in to allow the police to use more phone control, infiltration, provocation and anonymous witnesses. This is also mentioned in the management position in the VG today, where Dørum gets credit to take these things up. When we in the committee are able to agree in December, and then a powerful state council that is crystal clear that he is going to follow up what we've been asking for, yes then there's actually reason to rejoice, and then it's not primarily time to pretend that there are bigger conflicts than there are. Because then we're all over what I want to call games. Interaction is more important than game. I believe that the proposals of the Progress Party are in fact superfluous. But I would like to defend the Progress Party on one point: the proposal of the Progress Party was tabled on 5 November, and then the agreement of the Judicial Committee was not reached. We're also going to have to include that in the total picture. But then something happened in retrospect. And then there's reason to question the motive to maintain the suggestions when we write today May 4th. Is it to achieve results, or is it to demonstrate? What are we most concerned about? Is it to promote the proposal that will delay the process, or is it not to vote for what will delay the process? It depends entirely on the attitudes that apply in the ministry. If it were the case that we had a state council that was strictly opposed to opening up restricted cases of anonymous witnesses, making a proposal today without knowing that one has a majority for it, would give a state council the opportunity to stop the work we agreed to start in December. That is the reality. Fortunately, we have a government council that does not respond that way, and that is why this proposal is not likely to cause any harm. But I think there's reason to clarify these things. Are we busy with the results, or are we busy with the demonstration? And in the case of the police around Norway who are concerned with their security and security, I am absolutely certain that they will have a result first and foremost. With regard to the proposal to allow anonymous witnesses, the right vote for it because we are in favour of it. But there's also a reason to clarify that it's of course in certain special cases. There is also reason to state that anonymous witnesses do not, of course, mean that a defence lawyer or a judge should not be present. That means that we protect the identity of the witness from the defendant, and that is an important clarification. But I share the view of the majority that it should be superfluous to promote the proposal today. With regard to the other proposals, among other things: a proposal to provide an overview of the number and distribution of officials in the policing and public service seat. I see a point in getting such an overview. Just because of the ministry's rather adequate response, I don't think it will cost the ministry a lot of work to provide such an overview, and it would probably be a relatively curative matter to present it, for example. in the context of the State budget. That's why the Right doesn't see any problems in supporting that either. But with regard to the detailed proposals on criminal sanctions and possible minimum penalties related to violence against police officers, it is therefore precisely what we have commissioned the ministry to look at. The assignment was given in December, and when we talk about changes in the law, there has not been an unacceptable long time when we now write the beginning of May. Legal work takes some time if it's going to be serious. Now, when we have a government council that says that work is going on, and that it's not going to be long before we get any suggestions on these issues, it's almost a mistrust of the government council to have to maintain detailed proposals related to what the state council is doing to investigate. The fact that the Right does not say yes or no to these detailed proposals relating to minimum penalties and penalties is simply that it is not appropriate to deal with them now because there is work in progress in the Department. We're committed to bringing together majority solutions that make the individual police officer actually come out with increased security, not a situation in which we get low proposals early in the process, with weakened security for the police officers as a result.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1615	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1618	I must say I was amazed after hearing the representative Krohn Devold, very surprised in fact. I have in mind last year's throne debate, where I claimed that the Right was often on the party of the criminals. There was a strong response from the leader of the Right, Jan Petersen. Here I'm going to make another statement, and that's what it indicates here, is that the Right now is on the violent side. I wonder if right now, when this is about violence against police officers, I can't help imposing a minimum sentence of four years in prison and a maximum sentence of 21 years in prison. This is not in line with how the Right Party itself appears at its national meeting, the Right Party, who keeps saying that they are going in front of everyone else. We don't notice much about that. I refer to Petersen's national meeting speech, where he is in the field of crime, however, in a small footnote. He says to his country meeting: ‘We fought for the necessary extra effort on the police and the judiciary to increase people’s security. We have to work intensively to make our country safer, and not least make Oslo safer. We have to win the street back." My question to the representative Krohn Devold is: When her own president says he has to make the country safer, does it not also include that our police officers should be given greater security when they carry out their duties, in order to ensure once again the individual against criminals and abuses? This is in stark contrast to what the Right Leader Jan Petersen has said earlier, especially in his national meeting speech.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1632	Right on the party of the violent – I have to say that in the last few days it has been really strange to see how attacks go in the cabin and in pain, in all directions and with the sting of the opposite statements. What's important in this case is that we have a division of labour between big business and government. The division of labour is that the Government, with its 500 employees in the Ministry of Justice, is conducting thorough legal investigations, the Stortinget is doing its job, and the Stortinget is deciding. The size has given a mission, as late as December, and the government is working on what must be regarded as speed in terms of department, and is in the process of making proposals. It is then unthinkable to adopt details in relation to a package of proposals which has not yet been submitted. Then I want to go to the national meeting. On the right, a fairly important border climb to the Progress Party at the national meeting took place, and I used the opportunity at the national meeting to draw up three differences. One is that the Right is concerned with results where the Progress Party is engaged in demonstrations. It has this matter we have here, shown with all clarity. The second is that the right is subject to individual punishment, which is becoming more difficult both with the minimum criminal system and with the absolute criminal system for which the Progress Party is committed. And then the Right is concerned with both prevention and reaction, and is not just focusing on reaction. But the relevant thing for this case is point 1, that the result is more important than demonstration. And with the progress party's way of pursuing justice policy, we could achieve that the ministry actually stopped an important work that the Right is very interested in not stopping.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1641	The President assumes that the representative, Krohn Devold, would like to include the Right-wing proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1644	Yes, I take up the proposal herein.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1649	The representative, Kristin Krohn Devold, has then addressed the Right's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1653	It is not right that the criticism of the Right Party goes in all directions, it goes in only one direction, namely that the Right is too weak in the fight against crime. I fully agree with the representative Krohn Devold that Norwegian police officers want results, but how can a result be achieved if proposals are not put forward that are adopted? That is exactly what the Progress Party has tried to do here, by making proposals in the hope and belief that they would be adopted. Unfortunately, they are not adopted anyway, but the majority in this Chamber must assume their full responsibility. It is not right, as the representative Krohn Devold claims all along, that the department has been instructed by the Stortinget to make proposals to impose minimum penalties for violence against police officers. The Ministry has been required to assess whether minimum penalties should be imposed, and that is completely non-binding. I'm sure you'll be able to evaluate this now. For everything I know, you can come to the conclusion that this is not reasonable. The Ministry has its full right to do so, without coming into conflict with what the Biggest has decided. But it's typical for the Right to make completely non-binding proposals and thus present it as if they've really done something and got something adopted. Now we have hope that the department considers it to be positive, but we do not – at least not until the Minister of Justice takes the floor today – have any guarantee of that. So the only way to get anywhere and get results is in this area, too, to make concrete proposals. Then those politicians who will not vote in favour of the proposals will be held responsible for the lack of results.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1662	It is true that the criticism of the Progress Party does not go in all directions, but in one rather peculiar direction, I have to add. But now it is not that it is reserved for the Progress Party to be the only one who can criticise the Right, and thank God for that. I want to return the question to Jan Simonsen in the following way: when the representative Simonsen says that the only way to get improvements is to make proposals, as Jan Simonsen here has done today, and that the proposal that actually got a majority in December, is almost pointless, why in the world was the Progress Party involved in promoting the proposal in December, after submitting a Document No. 8 proposals 5 November 1998? It would be pointless. So the same accusation that Jan Simonsen is pointing to the Right and the majority, he's most guilty of all in himself. The point of the proposal in December, which was able to bring together a majority, was that we wanted to do something first, and second, that we respected the natural distinction between magnificence and government, where the government has a large number of case handlers who can make a thorough review. The alarming thing here is that the Progress Party maintains its proposal of 5 November, after agreement has been reached, and that today it is presented as if there is only one party willing to strengthen the security of police officers. It's not true, even if the claim is repeated.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1669	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1672	I would like to begin by stating that we in the Central Party are at least as concerned with the security of our police officers as the proposers and the Progress Party. When this Document No: The 8-proposal is now being promoted, I consider it an attempt to open doors. The proposers are well aware that these are proposals that the Ministry of Justice and the Government have taken on board in a very offensive way. This is made clear in the reply letter from the Ministry of Justice dated 4 February 1999 and is also contained in the comments/conclusions of the majority of the Committee. For example: Proposal 1, shows that all members of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progressive Party and the Right, are already working on proposals by the Ministry of Justice to allow anonymous witnessing in specified cases. The right-hand justification for supporting the Progress Party's proposal 1 is thus 'to move ahead with the ministry's work', as the comment states. I noticed that the committee leader mentioned a division of labour between big business and government, and I could actually imagine asking whether the representatives of the Right did not see the fundamentally unfortunate in such an attempt at big business. In the case of proposal 2 on advanced weapons depot, the majority do not want to force the country's police officers to advance the weapons depot where they themselves do not want it or find it sound. The central party feels secure when, together with the majority, we express confidence that the police officers as top officers take the task of ensuring the security of police officers. There may well be reason to ask whether the proponents of the Progress Party believe they have better conditions to assess this important issue than the country's police officers. With regard to proposal 3, which relates to the arms situation and training in the police, the Department has stated that it is close to 100 pst. coverage by each operational officer delivering his or her own weapons and by a satisfactory number of two-handed weapons, i.e. machine guns, to all police departments. The Ministry also indicates that there is a very satisfactory preparedness for sharpshooters and that the level of training is high. The fact that the proposers and the Progress Party disagree with this conclusion is not appropriate for me to be surprised, but there may well be reason to ask the Judicial Speakers of the Progress Party what makes them particularly fit to say that, for example, this is the case. there is a need for an adjustment of all laser-visioned machine guns. With regard to the proposals 5-7 on increased penalties for violence and threats to public officials and to prevent police work, the Committee on Civil Liberties has thus shown that the Stortinge in the context of the treatment of St.prp. No 1 for 1998-99 asked the Government to consider introducing higher penalties, including, where appropriate, minimum penalties to provide better criminal law protection for individual police officers. The majority say that they do not consider it right for the Storting to take a new decision on these matters, or to take a decision on the substance of the proposal, as long as the Ministry states that proposals relating to the criminal framework and the minimum penalty are already pending in the Ministry of Justice. This work, which is requested by the proposers, is therefore in good faith, and I trust the Ministry that the work will be carried out at the rate and quality expected by the Storting. Instead, the proposers and the Progress Party find that their attempts at big business are not being endorsed by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1689	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1692	The representative Nymo was very offensive when he made the claim that the department has tackled our issues in a very offensive way. Then I have to ask the question: how offensive is it to send letters to the Justice Committee and say that everything is very well, and that the police have the weapons they need, when we know that many policemen don't have their own MP-5 machine gun, despite the fact that it has an adjustable view? It is important for officials to use their own personal weapon. Then ask Nymo how I can know that there is an advantage to laser vision on a machine gun. It's because I've talked to police officers who use these weapons, and anyone who uses weapons will understand that there's an advantage to laser vision. So for the weapons depot and if the Progress Party has better conditions than the police officers to know if there is a need for an advanced weapons depot, i.e. to have weapons available in the cars. No, of course not, but it may well be that the employees of the officials actually know better than the police chief how much need is. It is the officials who are usually sent out in dangerous situations, not the chief executives. It is the security officer of the Police Joint Union who has requested that officials have influence over the use of advanced weapons depot.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1699	In fact, in the case of the armed situation in the police, police officers are responsible for their officials, including in the case of the use of weapons. It is also those who are responsible for the authorisation of an advanced weapons depot. Both, sir. Simonsen and I know the police organizations well, and we also know that there are shared opinions about the appropriateness of a forward arms depot. So the question, as Simonsen emphasizes, should the individual police officers be set up with a personal MP? When it comes to the need of the Progress Party to be tougher in criminal policy than anyone else, I think we could actually experience, if the police officers had had a machine gun as a handgun, that the representative Simonsen had thought it was terrible that they didn't have a machine gun or a miter. It sounds clumsy, but that's how I feel. With regard to the weapons situation in the police, I feel confident that it is the way of the joint comments and also of the assessment that the ministry has made, namely that it is satisfactory, and that is enough for me.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1708	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1711	I would just like to start by saying, like the representative Simonsen – and here I am dependent on my memory – that the chairman of the committee did not quote quite correctly from the committee's comment on the budget when she earlier expressed what was to be said there. But you'll probably be able to get back to that at other times, if it turns out to be a point. In my opinion and in my view, the Norwegian police are generally unarmed, an important value to take care of. I mean, it helps to reduce the use of weapons in our society. At least it is my claim that an armed police force could easily result in a more armed, criminal environment. But the fact that we have an unarmed police force is itself a strong argument for having strict legislation regarding the access that people in general have to carry in public places. For my part, it was at least an independent argument in relation to the tightening of the weapons law for approx. A year ago, that just a tightening of arms legislation for most people would help reduce the risk of police officers meeting criminals who had weapons. I would like to stress that this is a two-sidedness, and one is that it is important to maintain an unarmed police force. Now, as the representative Simonsen has pointed out, the present proposal does not go directly to an armament of the police in general. But it has something to do with the relationship and the boundary between arms and not weapons. As far as I know, the weapons rules we have today work satisfactorily, and it will then be up to the police officers to assess whether further progress would be appropriate. It depends on today's rules. If a policeman were to make the assessment that it was right, it would probably be a reasonable change. On one point, however, I would like to stress that there is a point in one of the proposals that exists, namely that good training in the use of weapons is important for police officers, because the day, if not from my point of view, one should have to use weapons, it is actually important to be able to deal with it, because it is itself part of reducing the risk of using weapons. I would like to stress this, even if it does not lead to any vote in favour of the present proposal. When it comes to anonymous witnesses, I'm not going to say much about it. I'd just like to say briefly that it could be a problem that concerns people other than police witnesses. The other thing that I have a desire to sort out is that there's a big difference between what will be the full anonymity on the one hand, and that you give some access to limiting full personalia on the other. It's a distinction that's important to be involved in dealing with these issues. I have already stated in a line that I perceive life-time punishment as a pure demonstration and put it in the ineffective measures account, so it does not deserve much more mention. With regard to criminal rules on violence against public officials, including the police, it will be my starting point that they are essentially satisfactory today. I can help assess higher penalties at the upper level in relation to some provisions, but in that case I will consider this in a more thorough way than is now the case, and in relation to the individual offenders. But I'll think that imposing higher minimum penalties won't get my approval, but of course I'm open to evaluating it in relation to the specific case. Nevertheless, I believe that today's legislation is broadly satisfactory and relatively strict, and it should be. But that doesn't mean that everything is necessarily satisfactory. There may be many measures that could make sense to improve the security of police officers, such as: improved training. At least it is my assumption that it would be a better use of the money than, for example, I did. using money to buy new weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1735	The security of police officers is ensured partly by the law and partly by physical measures, of which armaments are an element. With regard to police armaments, three main issues are: the type and number of service weapons operational training available on service weapons; One and two-handed service weapons are distinguished. One-handed weapons are revolvers, while two-handed weapons are MP-5 machine guns. In the case of one-handed weapons, it's roughly 100 pst. coverage, i.e. each operational official has supplied his or her own weapons. A satisfactory number of two-handed weapons are distributed to all police districts in order to have a proper level of preparedness of so-called reinforcement weapons. The guidelines are that police officers need to establish practical procedures, such as: ensure the proper disposal of assigned two-arms when the same service weapon is used by several police officers. This is in line with the relations of foreign armed police forces. It is not known that the dimensions of other foreign police forces are two-handed according to the number of operational police officers. In addition, police districts are required to have a number of so-called sharpshooters. The main task is to be an observation post and a support weapon for your own crew. This is a very satisfactory response. There are also a number of gas guns – that is, two-handed weapons – distributed to all police districts. Against this background, I believe that there is a satisfactory situation with regard to the number and type of service weapons allocated to the country's police district. The police conduct annual police operational training in several disciplines, including shooting training. It is the sum of instructions, practical exercises and self-experience that will enable the official to do the tasks better. The training is divided into levels, depending on the function you have. The Ministry of Justice has developed guidelines for these activities. The level of training of police operatives in Norway is at least at the level of the other Nordic countries. In general, all police officers shall conduct annual shooting training, while the personnel designated by the chief of police shall conduct an annual approval test following a programme established by the Ministry of Justice. To date, specific earmarked funds and ammunition have been allocated to police departments to carry out annual police operational training. In general, the self-security of the police officer depends on a number of factors such as: own skills, targeted training and time equipment and equipment. The police have been providing equipment in the form of weapons and protective equipment in recent years. In addition to the annual police operational training for individuals, there are several other types of courses. This applies, inter alia, to: training courses for operational trainers and staff training courses. Furthermore, the Police College is conducting a course in practical pedagogy. The aim of this course is to maintain a high level of professional and pedagogical quality in police operational training. Through the measures I have outlined, I believe that the Norwegian police have a high level of professional training in police operations. The third element is the availability of service weapons if situations arise that require police intervention. According to Section 5 of the police’s weapons instructions, the chief of police may authorise the carrying of one-off firearms in the car patrol, or during the call from the emergency services when necessary. More detailed guidelines were laid down in the Ministry of Justice’s circular in connection with new police arms instructions. It was provided here that such authorisation may be granted for permanent organised car patrols who are continuously receiving en-route service assignments and for officials of the Länsmannstedatten who perform tabulated back-up services. In any case, there must be a current and politically sound need for such a system to be set up. Consequently, within the criteria drawn up by the Ministry, the chief of police may locally authorise the advance storage of weapons in vehicles. The fact that the decision-making authority has been added to the local chief of police, following the gun instructions, must be seen in the context of the best local assessment of this type of issue, where there is knowledge of local conditions, needs and the position of officials on the progressive storage of weapons. In 1997, the Ministry of Justice carried out a survey of the extent to which the country’s police district had decided to advance the storage of one-off weapons of service. The study showed that it was mainly in the eastern part of the country where the potential for further storage had been used. In many places of service, there was no need for permanent storage arrangements. I do not see the need to change this, given that the legislation already opens up the accelerated storage of one-off weapons. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 4 for 1998-99, the Justice Committee asks the Ministry to consider the question of the use of anonymous witnesses. The use of anonymous witnesses is a matter that is being worked in the ministry, with a view to being sent to the hearing. This is a matter which is linked to the general criminal procedure, and which is of course important, because it is about all citizens, and it is about one of the most fundamental things in our society, namely that without witnesses, we have no cause. And we know that in relation to special types of organized crime, we can risk not having witnesses. That is the background to the question of whether anonymous witnesses have been raised and promoted, and it must of course apply to all citizens, no matter what function they have. I am also open to the question that has been raised, that there may be situations in which not all the details of their personalities should be stated, and see it as an independent relationship to be assessed. I am very concerned about this matter and will ensure that it gets as fast progress as possible. With regard to the questions that have been raised in the debate related to the position of the Methodological Committee, I will be allowed to point out that in the briefings sent from the department to the Stortinget, we have made it clear that it is not a big message we are promoting, but an odelstingsproposition. Of course, we have done that because once we've done a thorough processing, there's no reason not to do what's going to happen. The size here will have a very suitable opportunity to assess what the department provides, and also to look at the individual measures, so that the further handling of the matter is in the hands of the Storting. I work like this, and will also keep the deadlines that I have previously outlined to the committee in that context. I can also confirm that I am of course familiar with the decision that was made in December. It is a matter which the ministry has under work, and which I will ensure has as satisfactory progress as possible. In general, I understand why you're busy securing police officers. They are in a responsible act, and they are entitled to know that society is also with them. But there's a balance here, which several speakers have been about, in terms of weapons, between having an unarmed police and having an openness to special situations. These are issues that the judicial authorities in general are discussing, but we do so on the basis that in Norway we have normal situations based on the fact that we do not have weapons, but unfortunately we have special situations that require them. It's on the cutting edge to handle this, I think, is quite crucial. And let me say in general: I think that one of the most important things in the fight against crime is that most people perceive it as as as safe as possible to act as responsible citizens, that they dare to say from, that they dare to contact the police and that they dare to be witnesses. Then we can agree that there are cases that develop in criminal subcultures in our country, where people don't dare be witnesses, and where you're scared to be witnesses. In relation to these situations, there is every reason to consider how we can ensure that there are witnesses who, of course – as it must be in these situations in principle – are known to the actor, the defender and the judge. It is very serious that there are such situations, and that is why I have been very committed to it. Let me also add that this is not a recognition I have received because I have become Minister of Justice. I've been dealing with these questions for a number of years, but I notice naturally that when you become a Minister of Justice, people notice what they say. As I said earlier – I would like to repeat it from this chair – as I was well over four years ago, among other things. was concerned with various aspects of organized crime, I met to my wonder for the first time in my political life deafening silence. I didn't give myself for that reason, because silence doesn't have to be a sign of either resounding consent or of what you stand for is irrelevant, it can, on the contrary, be an expression of people's insecurity or, in some cases, even of fear. In this frontier country, I confirm my commitment to cases of anonymous witnesses. I think that's absolutely right to ensure some of the most fundamental things in a state of law, namely that we have witnesses. Without witnesses, we have no cause, and if we have no cause, we can of course risk in the most serious cases that crime goes unpunished, and it is really undermining both the rule of law and democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1790	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1793	The Progress Party has not only clear language but also clear proposals that underline the need for police security to be put in the high seat. The role of politicians should be to provide adequate framework conditions for the police so that the security of their police officers is optimal against violent and criminal elements of society. In 1997, one case of violence against the police was reported almost every other day in the capital. Developments are worrying both for the police and for the citizens of society who are concerned about police security. More violence against policemen is an expression that the street environment has become tougher and rougher, and that respect for the police as a place of order is clear on the return. The tough everyday life is discussed in the corridors of the different policy areas. You have to assume that there are some dark points, things the officials don't report. Some police don't report less serious cases, if they talk to the detainee afterwards and maybe get a complaint. There are examples of police officers being subjected to brutal violence up to several times. One case is that a police officer was subjected to serious violence all ten times when he was in the street in Oslo in 1994. The violence was so serious that the report was inevitable. He notes that conditions in the capital today are far tougher than they were five years ago. The party of progress has understood that the punishment for violence against the police must be tightened up and it must be strengthened considerably. There must also be far more policemen in the streets. The lack of resources makes the police unable to do the job as the public expects. Here are the representatives of the Parliament who have the primary responsibility. The police uniform continues to provide some protection for the police officers in most cases. But there must be punishments that are proportionate to the violence when an official is attacked with axe, threatened with knife, beaten and kicked, and when one is threatened with the lives of gang members. I have the impression that the red-green stir on the political scale does not take sufficient account of the negative violence that is happening in this country today. This has been clearly demonstrated in the debate that has taken place on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1804	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3017]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1820	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3018]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1836	No one has asked for the floor. Since the scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is very soon to come, the President will propose that we implement the voting procedure overtime. [[See page 3018]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1846	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1876	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Terje Knudsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 25 March 1999. ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out an investigation into a resource charge and to request further investigation of the appropriate instruments for such a charge, and then send the assessment to Stortinget.’ [[ground rate]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1882	Ivar Kristiansen – for explanation of vote, or vote council possibly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1885	I ask the President for permission to give an explanation of vote in cases No. 3 – 10 as they are relatively close together.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1890	If it can increase the pace overall, it's considered useful.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1893	That's what I'm going to do. I recommend that the Right-wing Group vote in favour of the proposal in case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The proposal in Case No 4 and 5 I recommend the group to vote against. The motion for a resolution on file No. 6 I ask the group to vote for, the same applies in case no. 7th@item: inlistbox I take it for granted that there is a vote in favour of the Right's proposal in case No. 8 and 9, as well as voting in favour of case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1900	The President then assumes that we can start voting on the proposal under case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1913	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Terje Knudsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 25 March 1999: ‘The size requests the Government to make adjustments in order to extend the unit quota system to include vessels down to 15 metres’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1929	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Terje Knudsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 25 March 1999: ‘The size is requested by the Government to facilitate the free movement of allowances and to allow this across groups of vessels’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1945	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Terje Knudsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 25 March 1999: ‘The Government asks the Government to change the boundary between the sea and coastal fishing fleet to 21,3 metres.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1961	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Terje Knudsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 25 March 1999: ‘The Government requests the Government to extend the time limit for the unit allowance scheme to 15 years. This shall also apply to shrimp trawlers.’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1977	There is a vote on the proposal by the representative Ivar Kristiansen, on behalf of the Right, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelsting on 25 March 1999: ‘The decision asks the Government to liquidate the time limit for the allocation of unit allowances. The winding-up should be carried out in parallel with the introduction of a flat-rate charge in the fishing industry. The form of such a fee, inter alia: the basis of calculation, who shall be included and its use shall be further investigated.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e1993	There is a vote on the proposal by the representative Ivar Kristiansen, on behalf of the Right, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelsting on 25 March 1999: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up proposals to establish a unit quota scheme for all fisheries where administrative reasons require limitations on fishing. Separate unit quota schemes are established for vessels above and below 21,3 metres.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e2010	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odel Stingen meeting on 25 March 1999: ‘The size asks the Government whether the unit allowance scheme can be applied to vessels below 28 m. The size suggests that the Government will return with this assessment in the budget for 2000, so that it can be implemented from 1 January 2000.’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e2021	I voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e2028	The Socialist Left Group should also have voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e2035	Then the President will propose that we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e2042	Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e2049	During the debate, Mr Reikvam put forward two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposals are as follows: Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for policy-driven interest rates from 1 January 2000.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The interest rate premium to cover, inter alia, administrative expenses shall be eliminated for both floating and fixed interest rates with effect from 1 August 1999.’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e2081	The President noted that a proposal from the Progress Party on this matter had been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e2097	The President proposes that the second statement by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade on the handling of the 2000 problem be annexed to the Protocol at the meeting of the European Parliament on 26 April 1999. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e2116	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Jan Simonsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 3-7, by Jan Simonsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 8, from Kristin Krohn Devold on behalf of the Right The suggestions are first voted on and then over the setting. The President will come back to the drafting of the proposal for a decision later on. First of all, we are voting on the proposals of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the police officers to implement advanced weapons depot schemes where the security officers consider it necessary in order to ensure the safety of the officials.’ [[position of weapons in safe devices in service cars]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the necessary changes to the laws so that intentional or deliberate killings of public officials can lead to life imprisonment.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to Section 127 of the Criminal Code so that the maximum sentence of the day is raised from 5 years to 10 years of imprisonment when violence against police officers is committed. If violence is serious, a minimum sentence of 4 years in prison and a maximum sentence of 21 years in prison is imposed.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a change to Section 128 of the Criminal Code so that a minimum sentence of 6 months is imposed on persons who use serious threats or offers of bribes in order to cause a public official to act unjustly or not to perform an act of service, and so that the maximum sentence of the day is raised from 1 year incarceration to 5 years in prison when the threats and offers of bribes are addressed to police officers.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to amend Section 326 of the Criminal Code to increase the maximum sentence to prevent or attempt to prevent a police officer from performing his job from 6 months of imprisonment to up to 2 years’ imprisonment.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e2167	The proposals of the Party of Advancement and the Right are taken up for voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the necessary legislative changes to allow anonymous police witnesses to be held before Norwegian courts and to allow police officers who do not act anonymously to be given the legal right not to indicate the personalia in addition to the service number.’; Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a rapid investigation of the armed situation of the country’s political and county councils and, in the context of the State budget for 2000, to submit a plan to ensure that all the country’s operational police officers have a personal handgun and access to adequate weapons training.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e2188	The proposal from the Right is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:8 proposals by Jan Simonsen, Jørn L. Stang, Vidar Kleppe and Terje Knudsen for an action plan to increase the security of police officers [[1998-99]] 4 shall be annexed to the Protocol.’;» The President assumes that the Progress Party will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e2204	We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution. For reasons of wetting, the President, after consulting the Committee, will amend this in such a way that the proposal for a decision is divided into two Roman numerals, so that we can distinguish between the proposals proposed in the Annex to the Protocol and those proposed in the rejected form. The change will be merged into a enriched one. With this change, voting will be as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e2240	Proposal submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 13 April 1999 reads: ‘The Government is invited to incorporate within a reasonable period of time the UN Conventions on Child and Women’s Discrimination into the law.’ The proposal is in its form a transmission proposal. The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-04.ana.ud1752e2251	Proposal submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 13 April 1999 reads: ‘The Government is invited to develop an overarching action plan for information, education and training in order to protect and promote human rights in Norway.’ The proposal is in its form a transmission proposal. The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the President takes up case No. 19, Unit, he will, for the sake of order, draw attention to the following: On behalf of the President of Odelstingt, the President will be informed that the meeting of the Odelstingt will be held at 1 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox Furthermore, a meeting at Lagtinget will be called immediately after we have finished our current map here in Stortinget.
