ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10-2.ana.ud1987e28	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which is now a little bit behind in time. Canceled conversations are not the simplest conversations to take place in this world, but as circumstances stayed with the morning meeting and afternoon meeting today, we have to make the best of the situation. The Council’s response gave a clear picture of the functioning of the State grant scheme today. On the other hand, there was no strong willingness to change. That is why, once again, I would like to point out the most important aspects that I believe need to be revised if the scheme is to become a decent system in the future. It is necessary to assess the administrative, administrative responsibility of the scheme. As I pointed out in my introduction, it is a result of coincidences that the system is currently administered by the Ministry of Culture and Sport, and not by the Department of Research. I expect that this review will be carried out by the two departments, including a thorough assessment of this issue. The second and more important issue is the need for legislation and guidance. It is true, as the Council of State said, that the scheme is flexible. But the back of that flexibility is that those who receive state scholarship do not have work conditions that are predictable, nor do they have working conditions that correspond to what is considered obvious to researchers in today's Norwegian society. In my opinion, it should be considered to calculate some form of overhead, which means that the recipient of a state grant receives not only a sum of wages and salaries but also an operating grant that is proportionate. It should also be considered, as I said, whether the State Scholarship Scheme has become too complex and whether it accommodates different categories of scholarship holders to allow the scheme to be managed in a sensible way. It would be reasonable to consider in the review whether one part of the scholarships can be managed by the Ministry of Culture and Sport and the other part of the scholarships of the Ministry of Church, Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10-2.ana.ud1987e41	Let me first express the same point of view as the interpellant, that such interrupted conversations from the Storting Chair are not the most appropriate, but that we're going to try to make the best of it. It is true that this mechanism that the interpellant has taken up has evolved over time and that it is very complex. As I explained, there are different arrangements in terms of whether you receive a scholarship in the form of a fixed annual amount, or whether you are placed at a pay step. It's also true that part of those that have a fixed amount per. years, this arrangement has a lifetime. So you could say that a lot of this is based on fees. The questions raised by the representative for pay are natural to consider in the context of the review that I pointed out, that is now taking place, and that we will come back to in the budget proposal. There is a process in progress. We cooperate with the Ministry of Church and Education, and we also have contact with the Association of Scholarships and the Association of Researchers. There were in particular three things the representative's salary went into. One was that it was a coincidence that the scheme was administered by the so-called Ministry of Culture and Sport. So it is the Ministry of Culture that administers the scheme. It is true historically that this has been a department that has been in different combinations with what is now the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. Of course, we would also like to consider whether it is more appropriate to break up the scheme, but I think it seems to me that it is well maintained in the Ministry of Culture. Then there was this with legislation and guidelines. It is clear that there may be a desire to have more predictability as to who should be given such an opportunity, as well as predictability as to the extent of the aid. On the other hand, there are very limited funds that are used for this – that is, as far as I remember, 9.8 million. kr for the current year – and it is also such that if you are going to go into more regulated schemes, the flexibility, flexibility and discretion that are also a point to take care of will no longer be possible. I will, of course, take with me in the further work the views expressed by the interpellant here, and will come back to the Stortinget with a review of the system and also with views and proposals for amendments if we consider it necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10-2.ana.ud1987e58	It was an overall cultural committee that asked the Ministry to review the principles and procedures for the management of the State grant scheme in the context of the budget setting for 1999 and then also assess the size of the scholarships. In this context, it is of course natural to also discuss what the interpellation is going on. I would also like to stress, on our side, that a review of developments since the last reorganization will be natural, because of course it does not have to be such that it is the departmental connection that is the most important. Therefore, there is no reason to make the same mistake twice without causing any alterations to the individual grant. We have received very clear signals from those who use the system, about what should be done, and a debate about who should be responsible, then may be an additional opportunity to train the changes that we see need to come. I now expect that in the course of the autumn budgetary procedure we will have the opportunity to look into the State grant scheme, and that is also where the problems can be solved in the first place. I don't think there's any solution, as the interpellant points out, to start splitting up the system into two to create two even smaller schemes, which just risk becoming even more trapped and invisible than the interpellant pointed out that today's system is. But I'm not going to reject it until we get a bigger review. Otherwise, we will return to the principles and levels of the scheme, in relation to the matter with which the Council of State has now announced that she will return to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10-2.ana.ud1987e69	It is positive that the interpellant targets a small but important group of resource people who may have been too undervalued. The scheme was reportedly put in place in its time to provide employment opportunities for Ivar Aasen, considering that there are some people who develop, through systematic work – outside universities and colleges – ideas that are demonstrablely of major societal importance. As the Council of State also mentioned, we are talking about well and well 50 people covered by this scheme. These persons do not have a strong trade union that takes care of their interests. Some of them have expressed that they feel pushed aside and almost forgotten. Because the state scholarship holders are so few and work outside institutions, it may not be so strange that many of the people in question have such a feeling. I am therefore very pleased that the department has taken the initiative and is now reviewing the scheme. The size and the state grant holders themselves have requested such a review on some occasions over the year. It is also important that this review be carried out in close cooperation with the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. The State grant holders represent a broad range of the overall knowledge and experience. It can be considered a quality of our society that we have room for creative, innovative people in our midst, and we have to be willing to give them reasonable conditions. The State grant scheme is a scheme that we should be able to escape in the future. A democratic society needs color clips that can't be placed in a booth. The Council of State stated that there has been an important premise that the State grant scheme should be as open as possible, so that it also has the possibility of catching up persons whom the established systems cannot automatically place in the existing institutional and employment system. The scheme is also intended to provide women and men with special conditions of time for scientific or cultural activities, regardless of the framework of normal working conditions. This is precisely how we can contribute to an acceptable framework for people with a multidisciplinary or unusual field of work. In St. prp. No 1 for 1998-99, the Ministry of Culture stated that: ‘the new Financial Regulation requires a change in the status of the Secretariat of the Committee on State Grants and Artist Guarantees. The Secretariat is currently located in the Norwegian Council of Artists, but should be established as State activity from the year 2000. The Ministry, together with the Norwegian Council of Artists, will prepare such conversion during 1999.’ So far the proposition. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the notified review of the principles and procedures for managing the State Grant Scheme is in good order, and whether it should belong in one or another department, yes, we'll have to wait to discuss it after the review has been carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10-2.ana.ud1987e96	The theme of this interpellation is not particularly controversial, and it is probably not partisan controversial. Therefore, it may also be natural that there is limited participation from the parties in this Chamber. That is a consensus, I note, that we will see the feedback promised in the budget proposal for the current year and that it is expected to provide a somewhat more thorough assessment of the future of the scheme. Let me also stress that the main point for me is not where the scheme is managed, but that it is actively managed, and that it is managed with the necessary competence. In the «With Knowledge and Will» investigation on the Norwegian university and higher education system, then State Council Gudmund Hernes wrote that the challenge for the Kingdom of Norway lies in the fact that we do not today get it out of the total talent and competence of the population that we could and should get. In fact, I think that can also be applied to the State grant scheme. There is a part missing that we get it out as we could and should get from these people who span a wide range of registers professionally and in terms of general cultural efforts. There's a part missing that we get it back that we could and should get, and I think it's relatively marginal sizes that are needed to improve the work situation, and to give the state scholarship holders the inspiration that we all need in our work situation. That's why I hope there will be guidelines in the future that will ensure that these marginal resources are also introduced into the scheme, so that the state grant holders can really make themselves available for the benefit of the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10-2.ana.ud1987e105	That is why the debate is under way. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10-2.ana.ud1987e111	The size goes to voting. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10-2.ana.ud1987e119	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 22 April 1999: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the Storting assessing the extent to which insurance companies should be entitled to require disclosure of information on their health and personal lifestyles as a basis for insurance contracts.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10-2.ana.ud1987e132	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Labour and Administration on administrative policy be annexed to the minutes of the Storting meeting on 26 April 1999. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10-2.ana.ud1987e135	Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-10-2.ana.ud1987e144	There is no record.
