ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e60	The representatives of Kenneth Svendsen, Kristin Halvorsen and Ane Sofie Tölmrås, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: from the representative of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western European Union in Paris from the representative of Inger Stolt-Nielsen on leave from 18 May to 20 May to take part in a conference at Wilton Park in Steyning in England from the representative of Steinar Bastesen on leave from 18 May to 28 May to take part as a member of the Norwegian delegation to the 51st International Whaling Commission. annual meeting at Grenada On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave:For the county of Nordland: Arvid FalchFor the county of Rogaland: Bent HöieFor the state of Telemark: Gunn Marit Helgesen3. Bent Höie is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Inger Stolt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e122	The representative of Kjell Opseth will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e125	I would like, on behalf of the representatives of Torstein Rudihagen, Terje Knudsen, Øystein Hedstrøm and myself, to propose that the establishment of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu be submitted to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e130	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e140	Over the past 30 years, women's lives have undergone major changes. The post-war period has brought about major changes in society. History we know something about, and it can help identify political and social changes. It is important to take a closer look at the struggle for women and the development of the roles of women and men in the historical context and to see the long-term perspective of gender equality policy. The equality goal is not set once for all. For me, it is important that the objectives and means of action need to be changed in the pact with time and development. Equality law has a 20th anniversary this year. We will do so, among other things. marked with a conference on 8 June. It is not the attachment, but the reminder and further action that are important in this celebration. The anniversary will remind us of what we have to fight for, and what we take for granted today. The same year that we got our equality law, the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women adopted. The Convention was negotiated by the UN Commission on Women, where Norway has been actively involved since 1946 in setting standards and standards for the global work of women's courts. This year, the Women's Commission has put forward proposals to ensure that women can complain to the United Nations about discrimination. The work for equality and equivalency is the result of the unifying of politics, the economy and the civil grassroots. There is a reason to pink the barricade storms and the wearers. Developments have taken place as part of general social development and as a result of strong political commitment and participation. Of course, women have our differences, both in terms of goals and means. This is about choice of value, and about women and men in all situations of life and society. Norway has been at an early stage in paving the way for women to participate in society, especially when it comes to politics. Our experience is sought by other states and international organizations. But we're not just contributors. We also benefit from other countries' experience of a social development that promotes equality, and we have fruitful cooperation with international organisations. The UN has been an important forum, last marked by the 1995 International Women's Conference in Beijing. The EU also plays an important role in strengthening women’s position, with a focus on strengthening their position in the labour market. Norway participates in the process through the EEA Agreement. The fight for democratic justice was the starting point for women's movement. This battle was won early in Norway. We are on the verge when it comes to women's participation in politics. Women's movement in the 1970s grew hand in hand with a strong student growth and increased demand for labour. The movement called for the right of women to education and work in the same way as men, and it called for a public equality policy. Women make up almost half of the workforce and are an independent part of our business and welfare system. Today, however, equality is not unique. Many draw on their shoulders, are uninterested and think that the gender equality exposure belongs to the 1970s. I think we need to have more respect for the pioneer work done by those who have gone before. Today we lose the fruits of their work. For me, equality is a value question that needs to be put into a human rights and human dignity perspective. Equality is more than individual interests and a struggle for interest. Equality is also about women and men being equivalent, and it has to be part of our value foundation. Women and men are different, and women and men have traditionally shared different values and attitudes. We need both sexes to participate and use abilities and willingness to shape our future. Equality issues are included as a self-written part of the value debate. The political mobilization of women in the last 30 years is a story of success and progress. Developments have progressed rapidly. 86 years ago, women didn't even have voting rights. Now we're almost half the government. Women have expanded the political agenda. Family policy is a major and important political issue, and this is, in my view, a result of women’s taking important political positions. It is useful to participate in the policy. Women have taken power. When it comes to women's participation in politics, there is little basis for claiming that we are facing a setback. The government hopes that the new government will make important contributions to a running public debate on Norwegian democracy. And of course, there is the participation of both women and men in the development of democracy. In line with the Storting's intentions, a council has been appointed. We've focused our composition on balanced gender distribution, along with a reasonable geographical distribution. Living government and local mobilization are important to the Government. Everyone must be given the opportunity to have political influence, so that both women and men can influence their everyday lives and the development of their community. Today we see that the regime is under pressure. We must prevent decisions more than before being transferred to market players, to wealthy individuals, organisations and others who are not responsible for the people in elections. Such a development will lead to the transfer of power from the arenas where women have gradually been brought in, and to the arenas that are almost exclusively dominated by men. We must therefore actively oppose power concentration on few hands and one sex. Gender equality is one of the most important instruments of good policy, and covers issues of justice and the ability to influence. This is important for the municipal and county elections to the autumn. Therefore, the Government supports the campaign for more women in municipal government. The campaign is run by 12 women's organisations in cooperation with the Competence Centre for Gender Equality. Today, women's representation in local government is 32.7 p.m., a little over 4 percentage points higher than after the 1991 elections. The size of the enterprise recently adopted changes in the municipality in order to ensure equality rules. Only by elections to presidency and county selection will it be allowed to depart from the principle of 40 pst. representation of both sexes. The 40 % rule must also apply to addition options and new options, and the batch can only be set with one list suggestion when selecting fixed selections. The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs is responsible for the health of equality policy. I would like to work to ensure that policies are drawn up in interplay between different levels of government and policy areas. The government has therefore created a state secretarial selection for equality. Although much has happened, the interaction between state and local authorities is still too poor to develop a holistic equality policy. A goal of the Government is that the municipal sector is also working on gender mainstreaming issues. Equality must always be on the agenda of counties and municipalities. Local governments need to plan to strengthen equality, among other things. by securing employment for both sexes, ensuring community planning on both women and men's terms and public services adapted to both sexes. Gender equality law, which this year is 20 years old, has made its mark on equality issues. For example, gender discrimination is a rare sight today, and the female part of government, councils and selections that are created by public bodies, are rising from about 100 000 people. 20 pst. From 1980 to about 1980. 40 pst. in 1997. Changing social conditions and many years of experience with equality laws call for changes in laws. I want a law that is better suited to the most important gender equality policy challenges, and that can be powerful into the next millennium. At the same time, there is a need to review and adapt the laws to new international obligations, including: The EEA Agreement. The Ministry of Children and the Family has taken the initiative in evaluating the laws in the light of these obligations. Norway is also participating in a legal and gender equality network in the EU this year. The government believes that the women's profile in the laws must stand firm, but will emphasize that the promise can also be used for the benefit of men where this promotes gender equality. Working life is the most important field of law. Much positive has been achieved here, and women's position is undoubtedly strengthened. Yet women still feel worse than men. We also see that complaints about pastacies in additions are among the issues most frequently dealt with by the Equality Ombudsman. A particular problem is the passing of pregnant women. The government will assess changes in the laws that can increase equality in the workplace, including: a ban on sexual harassment, the possibility of compensation when one has been exposed to gender discrimination, and – which I will come back to – the strengthening of equal pay decisions. The equality law opens up to quotaing, but does not impose any such practice. § 21 of the law on representation in public administration, advice, etc. is an allowance rule, whereas § 3 allows for different types of special treatment, including allowances. We should consider whether we can use gender quotas to achieve a smoother gender distribution within education and working life. The main agreements in the state and local government sector provide for moderate allowances for additions. In the private sector, it is up to the individual companies to benefit from quotas for additions and promotions. Gender quotas are perceived by many as a controversial tool in working life. Studies show that allowances are rarely or never used during additions and rises. The only area where quotaing is used is in policy, and it has been a useful and effective tool. From 1998 onwards, the Gender Equality Act has been opened for the limited quota of men. The government is concerned with the lack of recruitment of men for the care profession, and adopted a regulation last July to provide special treatment for men in the context of child education and care. This opens up, in order to encourage men to seek and, under other equal conditions, to prefer a man to be added. Equality between children and young people. Although boys and girls today have equal rights and opportunities in most areas, there are gender differences in the choice of education, occupation and participation in leisure activities. There are also differences between girls and boys in the extent of problem behaviour associated with violence, crime and drug use. There are today more women than men taking higher education. Girls well to a large extent different, and gathering fewer, educational directions than boys. The girls are in a number of aesthetics, teacher education, economics, administration, social sciences, law and health education, and still have a minority in technology, real science and education in primary industries. This has consequences for future career choices. Girls must be motivated to choose courses of education that provide competence for the establishment, rental and operation of business. The curriculum offered to students may have much to say for both girls’ interest in the subject and for future career choices. Recruitment measures as well as measures aimed at the educational system itself are therefore important. IT is a central area of society. In order to prevent new social distinctions between those who have PCs at home and those who don't, and between boys and girls, it is important that the school follows technological developments carefully and powers to integrate developments in education. Goods and girls are equally active in voluntary children’s and youth organisations, but there is a difference between their activities and their use of leisure time. We don't know if the local authorities give equal priority to activities for boys and girls. The government will follow up on this through contact and dialogue with voluntary youth organisations, youth groups and municipalities. Support schemes for youth actions in larger urban communities and for young people in the districts should be better developed and the living conditions for children and young people. The emphasis is on equivalency and equal opportunities for girls and boys, and prejudice, racism and discrimination must be countered. Immigrant-background girls are a group that participates less than other young people in organised leisure activities. The government has supported their own activities, and the number of applications for projects directed to girls with immigrant backgrounds is increasing. Young people today are little concerned with traditional equality issues. However, they are at the same time concerned that girls and boys should have equal opportunities for participation in and access to leisure activities. Over 70 pst. Norwegian women between the ages of 25 and 60 have gainful employment. In the last 20 years, there has been a dramatic increase in women’s education and participation in paid work — a happy development. However, we still have a sex-shared labour market. In spite of a certain bias, it is a characteristic of the sex-shared labour market that women and men take different education and do different jobs. The same enterprise also often performs different tasks, or has different types of settings. It is a constant feature that women’s dominated industries and occupations offer lower wages and fewer chances of careers than men’s. As leaders, women tend less than men. The demand for labour in the 1970s was to some extent decisive for the division of labour between women and men today. Women were asked to work as a labour force because the welfare state was being built up. Women found a market in the provision of services, especially in care and care. And the growth in paid work for women is the result of the previously unpaid work being converted into pay. At the same time, however, the growth in the oil sector did not lead to women finding a market there or being recruited to this sector, which is highly man-dominated. The gender-based labour market is a rigid and lowly flexible labour market. The previous gender mainstreaming showed that the strong flow of women into working life has led to greater equality in income between women and men. But there are still large income differences between the sexes. There is a clear overrepresentation of women in the lowest income groups, and the proportion of women here has increased. Men are overrepresented in the highest income groups, and the proportion of men here has increased. Differences are particularly great for young and older women. In the 65-74 age group, there are three times more women than men in the lowest income group. Many of the explanations are likely that more women live alone because they live longer than men, and that they are the least retired. Wages and salaries are still lowest in industries and occupations where there are most women. For all women and men, overall, the convergence of wages and salaries for one year's work has been small in the last ten years, although the relative level of education among women has been increasing all along. This suggests that we still have an equal pay problem. When revising the equality law, I would like to make a proposal to make the equal pay rules clearer in the equality law. Equality laws state that women and men should have equal pay for work of equal value. This implies that employers are required to give equal pay for work of equal value and, if necessary, across professional boundaries. At the same time, I would like to stress that today's problem of equal pay is complex and cannot be resolved by means of legislation and the prohibition of discrimination alone. The social partners have a responsibility here. I want to defend the free right of negotiation and, at the same time, encourage – especially the large enterprises – to go through their own wage policy and wage statistics to analyse gender differences. Lack of leadership is today's ideal, and women have knowledge and values to add to a leadership group. In working life, there are barriers that the social partners and the single enterprise are responsible for removing. Governments, on the other hand, are responsible for laying the framework conditions – from industrial policy to family policy in all. In the Declaration of Adulthood, the Government has clearly expressed: ‘It is necessary to focus on the recruitment of women to lead positions in both the public and private sectors.’ Young women today have equal or better education than men who are equal in age. As a result, the recruitment basis for women in tenure positions has increased. More and more women are getting into the rentals in all parts of the world of work, but developments are slow. In private business, the female share of all higher tenor positions today is about 7 pst., in municipalities between 20 and 25 pst., and in the state of 26 pst. For the top level leadership settings, these percentages are roughly halved. The government has set an ambitious target. Before the end of 2001, the proportion of women’s leaders in the country should be increased to 30 pst. Some departments have reached their targets this year, while others have to spend more time. Norway has a high level of government activity, and businesses face major challenges in the future. It would be a positive signal effect for business or if enterprises in which the country has ownership interests could lead with a large number of women in key positions. Regional policy should focus on women’s actions. It is an important challenge to develop communities that provide room for both women and men, with a diverse supply and the ability to live a rich life. 1999 is District Women's Year. The idea is to give the women's regional policy effort an extra boost at the start of a new millennium. The marker shall be visible to women in the districts and contribute to the increased use of women's resources. It will also allow men to discuss and possibly take a given with old role models. Primary nutrition is a tree in many districts. Within the fisheries and aquaculture industries, agricultural industries and reindustries, equality issues are being addressed, both in terms of traditional activities, the development of new activities linked to industries and coastal and rural development. New jobs must be created – including by women and districts. Where there is a debt of an establishment grant to the State Enterprise and District Development Fund, a minimum of 40 psts is required. of the scholarship shall be awarded to women. Evaluation shows that women often establish themselves on a sound economic basis and that few women go bankrupt. The network credit system is also aimed at developers. The system seems to hit women well. However, it has been shown that women, for different reasons, have poorer economic conditions than men when they are to finance their own business. The government's commitment in this field is measures that can facilitate the situation and improve the framework for women who want to start their business. The government has earmarked 10 million in the State budget. kr to increase the participation of women in industrial development. It is the State Food and Rural Development Fund that is responsible for implementing the initiative, which is targeted primarily at measures that may increase the representation of women in areas where men are clearly overrepresented. Many of the measures now perceived as «women's measures» are about creating modern and flexible businesses and jobs – not only for women but also for men. If social life does not profile values that go beyond short-term efficiency considerations, they can risk losing not only in the fight for the best qualified women, but also men. The career conditions of young men are becoming more and more the same as those of women who live in the same state of affairs, and are increasingly different from those of their own fathers. It is therefore necessary that the labour market takes account of new levels of equality and life patterns. Women can experience double discrimination: both as women and as members of minority groups. Our objectives and ideals of an equal society apply to all minority groups and cultures. The synthesis has developed a draft action plan on gender equality, which is now being heard. The draft states that equality and women’s policy issues are a key challenge for the Sami society. The proposal discusses measures to stimulate training among young men and the conditions of primary industries with a view to providing better opportunities for both women and men. Participation in the labour market and equal representation also apply to our new countrymen and women. Women with a migrant background are covered by the objectives of equal opportunities, rights and obligations in immigration policy, equality laws and family policies. The equal opportunities information system is also used by migrant women’s organisations. The government will arrange a mini-seminar on the situation of immigrant women this year. There has been a broad political agreement that we should have a family policy that facilitates the combination of family life and working life. Many have been achieved, but a lot remains. Families where both parents are wage earners are now the most common in Norway. The Nordic countries are on top when it comes to public family rights. The labour market has made less of this change. The challenge is to create schemes in which work and family life can be balanced and combined. Several gender equality champions claim that cash support will help bring women back to the kitchen bench. I think they're wrong! Although cash support was never meant to be a gender equality policy reform, it does in fact provide an assessment of the fact that women's care efforts have to a large extent carried out free of charge. We get a snowy equality debate if equality becomes synonymous with women's professional participation. Women's right to decide has been central to the equality struggle. It must also be true that women choose different ways from women who choose different ones. The right to choose shall also apply to men. It's a big challenge to get more fathers to take more care of their children. The evaluation of the parental quota shows that when father is home with maternity leave, the motivation to participate in more homes later also increases. Today, seven out of ten fathers with the right to birth money take out the birth rate. That number could be even higher. As many fathers do not have the right to birth money, I believe that self-right to birth money will be an important measure to get more fathers to be more at home. Today, the father's right to birth money is tied to the right of the mother. The government will work for long-term fathers to be entitled to leave based on own income. In my opinion, including the fathers in the family policy has strengthened the family and improved child rearing. Policy design has proved very important in bringing about changes in the way men behave. Today, small children’s families with one- and two-year-olds are entitled to cash support, while the provision of childcare facilities is still a limited good. The demand in many municipalities is greater than the demand. It's an arrangement for the Government to build kindergartens so that those who want them will be offered it. We don't do that, we undermine our own family policy. Men's interest in gender equality is more than a response to changes in women. Today, equality is also about equality with men's premises. There are many examples of men taking a distance from stereotypes of human roles. People want to take part in the everyday life of their children. It's coming, among other things. clearly identified after a break in life. They also show a distance from women's choice, for example: in the ‘White Tape’ campaign. Last fall, the Prime Minister and I organised the conference ‘New Times — New Men?’. The aim was to contribute to a societal debate on the development of the human roles of society. The conference focused on Church, Defence and Business. At Nordic level, there is also cooperation to develop human roles. The Nordic Council of Ministers has developed an action plan for men and gender equality for the years 1997-2000. The action plan points out a total of 16 specific areas of activity for the Nordic countries. At the Nordic Institute for Women and Gender Research, a position has been created as coordinator of human research. It is an exciting initiative that will probably lead to more attention and debate on the human role. The Norwegian ‘network for research on men’ will otherwise be 10 years old. Gender equality policy should also help to prevent family choice. When the crisis centre Camilla in Oslo opened in 1978, female abuse was a non-themed issue in the public debate. Work on the abuse of women in crisis centres has been one of the most important driving forces for violence against women. Nearly 2,500 women and nearly 1,900 children sought refuge in crisis centres in 1997. There has also been a parallel international development here. In 1993 the UN reached agreement on a declaration of power, which made it its focus on violence against women. Today, this is a theme that is high on the international agenda. The UN has appointed its own Special Rapporteur for the election against women. This assesses how countries and governments address this problem. A working group has been set up with the political participation of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs to propose measures against violence and abuse of women. The working group looks at the problem complex in a broad sense, but will focus in particular on the authority that is taking place in the home. As part of the acquisition of knowledge, we had an idea in February where different resource people in the field participated. The work of the working group should result in an action plan. Family selection is a problem area that is far less developed than the street selection problem. The powerper in the world — as in the street — is usually men, while the victim is women and children. Public authorities, and in particular child protection, have a great responsibility to follow up messages from crisis centers, so that children get the help they need. The Ministry of Children and Family now implements several measures for children in crisis, some of which involve children in crisis centres. Among other things, a model test shall be started, which shall look at forms of cooperation between crisis centres and the protection of children. It is serious that many women are subjected to or threatened by violence, assault and harassment in our society. There is a clear link between such experiences and poor health. In the autumn of 1997, the Government adopted a selection which, in January 1999, presented the report ‘Women’s Health in Norway’. The report is also part of Norway’s international obligations to follow up the Beijing Conference. The distribution shows that women’s health in Norway is consistently good. Women in Norway live long compared to women in many other countries, and longer than men in all other countries. Many women have good intentions for good health. Norway offers well-developed health services and free, good maternity care and birth support. However, the report shows that the basis of knowledge, regulation and practice is often based on an unwritten male norm. Medical research outlaws women in clinical trials and makes men's normal values apply also to women. Health measures traditionally focus on hazardous substances and heavy noise, and less on monotonous muscle distress, stress and emotional distress in the care sector. The distribution also shows that women use health services in a different way from men, and more often shows that the health services do not take them seriously. You see premise for treatment, even of women's diseases. Internationally, we are experiencing an unprecedented increase in trafficking in women. The government is now taking a closer look at this. Participation in the United Nations, the EEA Agreement, the Council of Europe and national and international conferences gives us information and can contribute to cooperation against trafficking in women. The government wants to develop an action plan related to Norwegian conditions and experience. My starting point is that we don't want prostitution in an equal society. We must mainly look at what keeps prostitution up: feminisation of poverty, etc. in Russia, the backers who have the economic benefit of organising prostitution and trafficking in women and the whore customers. Equality is a question about values - not just about money. We have to evaluate women's values and their work, and men have to fit in the gender debate on their own premises. We're at a crossroads, where we're going into a new millennium and we're going to preface the future. Gender equality in the future must facilitate living conditions that allow both women and men to take advantage of their forces and their potential, public and private. They may be able to participate as equivalent partners with equal responsibilities in the workplace, in the policies and in the care of children and for each other.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e295	The President proposes that the Minister for Child and Family Equality’s statement on gender equality policy be addressed at a later meeting — and considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e307	I just want to repeat what I said in Odelstinget that I am asking that this proposal be turned into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e312	The President then noted that the text was amended to ‘Recommendation’, etc. This will form the basis for the proceedings at the end of the meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e324	At the request of the family, culture and the Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e335	St.meld. No 27 for 1996-97 on the state's relations with non-governmental organisations were developed by the government of Jagland, and St.meld. No 44 for 1997-98 is an additional message from the Government of Bondevik. St.meld. No 27 for 1996-97, as stated in the statement, ‘as a starting point, that an active and living civil society is a fundamental prerequisite for the further development of the welfare society’. The content of the notification highlights the importance of voluntary organisations to the voluntary community. The Committee would stress that both communications aim primarily at strengthening the local levels of voluntary organisation work, while at the same time reaching smaller local organisations/ teams without any connection to national teams. And of course, this is an overall committee that's behind it. Furthermore, St.meld draws. No 27 for 1996-97 set out some principles for future government policies towards voluntary activities, including: three different forms of voluntary activity, which are membership-based activities, value-based activities and free welfare production. The Committee considers this third to make it visible that voluntary activities take different forms. And hopefully, these three categories will function voluntarily, contributing to a somewhat more coordinated allocation from the different departments. These differences have also been identified by several organisations through the hearings. The various parties have pointed out this issue in their comments and that today’s allocation involves unequal treatment, intransigence and partly unfair financial support. This means that the desired diversity is not achieved at local level and that the desired policy is not reached in the communications with the voluntary organisations. However, what has taken most of the Committee's time to deal with voluntary notifications is what allocation model would be preferable to channel funds down to the local level in the best possible way. The government has in St.meld. No 44 for 1997-98 proposed a model which includes both the primary municipality and the county. The Committee finds both the advantages and weaknesses of the proposed scheme, but one thing is certain: the government’s model would have led to a different practice, perhaps also intentionally, as there are different needs/demands depending on where you are located. In this context, perhaps the government's model would be positive in relation to the local knowledge of volunteering. It may also be thought that the Government’s model would better carry out the unorganised voluntary activity, but a majority, consisting of the Workers’ Party, the Advance Party, the Right and the SV, will here point out that the organisations that have allocated government grant funds to local activity have carried out this task satisfactorily and with good results, including those organisations and measures that do not have membership, such as: Norwegian Music Council, LNU and Norwegian Amateur Theater Council. And unlike the government's proposed scheme, they did this without spending large amounts of money on increased bureaucracy, which is one of the negative features of the government's model. In addition, the Progress Party will express great scepticism that one should involve further political involvement in the functioning of non-governmental organisations. The same majority opposes such allocation practices. These parties want to continue to trust that voluntary organisations will also carry out this distribution in a way that will satisfy the voluntary activity at local level. This majority therefore proposes that the Government implement an allocation model in which funds are channelled through the central stages of organisations. The majority will point out here that something else would be undermining the organisational structure that one has built up in Norway to date. One must still be able to rely on organisations to act as democratic associations. I would like to make it clear here that the proposal contains a wish to provide the necessary guidance to ensure that the funds reach the base plane. The government also proposes an 18-year upper age limit for the new scheme. On the other hand, another majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, Right and SV, want established practices of 25 years to remain in force. The Progress Party supports the Government here, and believes it is right to put in place the measures where the maturity of the youth arises, namely at the age of 14-15. Such a wish was also expressed by various sports circles during the hearings and not least at the sports event in Ålesund last weekend. Through different departments, the State transfers considerable financial resources to the voluntary organisations. In fact, in 1995, this amount was as much as NOK 4.7 billion. The majority of these funds went to non-governmental organisations that complement the public in terms of welfare and service production, such as schools, kindergartens and assistance. However, it is important, as the Committee also points out, that the government grant for some represents a relatively small proportion, while for others it is absolutely essential. Here it is important that one takes into account who is the most served with basic support, and who needs project support. In the case of support form, the Progress Party will clarify that it is the backbone of the sovereignty of voluntary organisations. Activity support and project support should only be applied to a small extent, in order to avoid indirect management of organisations. The Progress Party believes that the last two support schemes should focus on the unorganised volunteering. It is also important to clarify that the new State scheme for the local teams and associations of organisations should be in addition to current schemes and that the revenue should come from the planned funding scheme with the aggregation of games. The Progress Party believes that a coordinating body consisting of the ministries and elected representatives of the voluntary organisations should be set up. The body should function for two years and be mandated to evaluate its relationship with the voluntary organisations in the light of St.meld. No 27 for 1996-97 and St.meld. No 44 for 1997-98, with the aim of achieving a more coordinated distribution policy. There is no doubt that funds are allocated on different terms and that the various departments allocate funds to the same area of activity. I have previously stated that it is granted and has been granted a lot of money for the operation and support of organisations and activities. This is also the focus of attention, and unfortunately not against the fact that the state has taken over and monopolised larger and larger parts of its revenue base through state gambling. Now we also see that international large organizations, among other things. in the field of environment and aid, sees the Norwegian donor happy as an interesting market. All these factors help to dust the voluntary teams and the ability of organisations to obtain income. Once people have done their trade, delivered the lottery ticket/tip ticket and put the last ringing coin in the machine, no one is buying tickets from the local youth team or the sports team at the end of the store. We must therefore also look at the voluntary teams and the opportunities of organisations to start up games. Here a minority, consisting of the Advance Party and the Right, want the Government to reconsider the application for the start of BingoLotto. This will allow voluntary participation in the market that provides the basis for life, which is the cornerstone of diversity. It is also important to look at the economic framework conditions for voluntary teams and organisations. It is not mentioned here, but the Committee has registered that the Government intends to issue a proposal that concerns this, in the spring of 1999. The Committee shall meet an investigation into it by the Government. The Progress Party also considers that the Government must await the effects of measures taken in the slot machine market before considering any new measures. It may be that measures already in place such as the constant level of the number of vending machines, the maximum number of vending machines an organisation can deploy, and the criteria for which vending machines can be approved may reduce the revenue of the voluntary organisations. Here I would like to refer to the Norwegian Automatic Humanitarian Business Cooperation Committee's opinions. Another factor that is relevant is the fear that municipalities will reduce existing funds to voluntary teams and organisations. Here I just want to point out that the municipalities are not required to do anything by law, and that it is the priorities of each municipality that determine this. In any case, I believe that the issue that has been raised here will come independently of the model. The only thing we can do here as a committee and a magnificence is to recommend to the municipalities and state that this is a new system.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e377	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e380	The Progress Party is usually opposed to bureaucracy, and they often humiliate selections and committees, etc. It happened as late as the debate we had yesterday. However, in this case, the Progress Party shall promote a proposal for a separate sample to address the coordination of the grant schemes and shall state in its note: ‘These members propose here that each department of the departments of the Heads of Mission should be composed of a coordinating body together with volunteers during a two-year period in order to continuously evaluate the strength and weaknesses of the State’s relations with voluntary teams/organisations.’;» ‘Continuous’ they shall sit together and assess! The progress point is also against detail management, if I see it correctly. And then my questions are: why should the chiefs of the expedition sit in this selection, and not a chief of bureau, a ministerial council, or a bureaucrat working on these matters? Then why should detailed guidance be given to those degrees in this matter? Does not the Progress Party believe that the Ministry itself is able to assess both the need for a sample and, in particular, the composition of such a sample? Elsewhere in the notes, they point out that a coordination should ‘reduce any trend towards camaraderie between organisations and officials’. What indications does the Progress Party have that such a ‘camera’ is present and that it is so widespread that it has to be pointed out here? And if there is, what is it that would mean that there would be less of that if there were better coordination between the departments?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e394	To take the last one first, the thing about camaraderie. In my setting, it says: ‘... the Committee further considers that it will counteract any trend towards advocacy between organisations and civil servants.’ Here it says "the Committee". It is possible that it is a mistake, and that it was initially a comment from the case rapporteur, but it is clear that the Committee has joined that comment. Furthermore, I will refer to the St. Report. No 27 for 1996-97. All parties – with the exception of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, and I assume that the Workers' Party is also part of the majority – indicate that one in this Communication pointed to the ‘need for better coordination’ and that one also referred to ‘the need to identify general allocation principles valid for the whole of central government, across ministerial and sectoral boundaries’. So to me, it is incomprehensible that the representative, Mr. Breimo, is trying to sort of criticise the proposal that the Progress Party here is promoting, because I think it was the same intention that the Labour Party had at the time. That the Workers' Party now does not want to join that proposal, is going to be on their own account, but we have the same wishes and intentions for it. When the Progress Party wants the Head of Mission to enter a sample, it is simply because the Head of Mission is the most concerned with the allocation of voluntary teams and organisations. And of course, with regard to ‘continuity’, it's not meant to be, and it probably also understands the representative, Mr. Breimo, that they should sit in and evaluate this day-to-day, but that they sometimes get together to assess whether we're going to have a more similar allocation practice. Finally, I would like to mention the matter where the Ministry of Local Government grants NOK 70 000 to a rock concert. That's what I think belongs to the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e410	To a misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e417	The President has strong doubts as to whether this is a misunderstanding, but will nevertheless allow the representative, Mr Breimo, to resolve a possible misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e420	I just want to make it clear that the Workers' Party is not behind what's going on about camaraderie, etc. There must be a fault on the part of the rapporteur when it is formulated as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e425	The representative Sandberg wants to answer?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e428	It was good to find out that the Workers' Party was not behind that remark, but that the representative Breimo attached the case rapporteur's spelling error in the setting, I do not think I was in place. It is quite clear in the wording that the ‘committee believes’ etc.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e434	The President has some doubts as to whether the necessary clarification has taken place, but the further debate will certainly show this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e437	At least what we might be talking about is that there is a lot of positive about the influence of voluntary teams and organisations in the setting. A co-ordinator's committee has a number of positive statements about the importance of voluntary teams and organisations and what they have had to say to society over time. It seems to me that I am a positive touch we can provide cross-politically to the voluntary teams and organisations. When we get to the point where one is going to distribute these funds – it's primarily where the big problem is, how one is going to distribute the extra resources that are coming, into voluntary teams and organisations – the multiplicity is going to be used for distribution through the central stages of the organisations. There is no distrust whatsoever of voluntary teams and organizations from the Christian People's Party. We have great confidence in what they're doing. But what this is about is some extra funds, and we're going to try to reach all the young people in all the municipalities. With the distribution model proposed by the Government, an amount based on the number of children and young people living in the different municipalities is distributed according to the type of involvement in the different municipalities. Then one will be sure that this will benefit all children and young people throughout the country. We're some with the Progress Party in that one should put the pressure first for those who are under 18 years of age. There's not a majority in it, but there are some of us with the Progress Party. Does Sandberg not see that distributing through the municipalities will not lead to more bureaucracy, but that we will catch up with the types of organisations that do not have a nationwide organisation – a skateboarding club or whatever it may be – and that the commitment that exists will result in closer contact between the municipalities and voluntary teams and organisations, which could lead to a strengthening of the involvement of voluntary teams and organisations also from the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e446	Well, I actually see that, and I think I put a little emphasis on it in my main post as well -- that's one of the arguments that speaks positively for the government's model. I also believe that there might be a greater degree of involvement and closer contact with the voluntary teams and organisations which are not at least connected to the central level or which may not have any other membership. But, as I also said in my main post, it is much more important that we – the Progress Party at least – do not want any further political governance into the work of voluntary organisations. That's what fear is about us. If, in addition to a division from the ministry, we are also going to include the primary municipalities and county municipalities in this picture, it is not to avoid that at some level we will have further political governance in this. Another thing, and I also said something about it in my main post, is that different central units and organisations have actually practiced distributing funds to local teams and non-central organisations. I'll show you here, among other things. to the Norwegian Amateur Theatre Council, which in 1998 granted funds for unorganized activity in 90 layers. They've done it. What is even more positive in this context is that both Norwegian Music Council, Norwegian Amateur Theater Council and LNU distributed these funds without increasing bureaucracy. Even though it was opening to take 10 pst. of the funds of their own administration, they actually didn't. The 10 pst. which was actually to go to the administration and bureaucracy, they distributed to the local laws. I don't think that would have been the result of the government's model, with distribution through the primary municipalities and county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e458	One of the most important things is that state support schemes aimed at strengthening the activity of local voluntary organisations must also include local teams not linked to a national superstructure. It would be unfortunate if local organisations had to join or form new key points in order to receive state support. The aid scheme should not contribute to the further centralisation of the organisation and the allocation of funds from the proposed incentive scheme should be based on local activity and on local needs for support. The local popular commitment, based on people's everyday lives, has now been given a unique chance of a lift that means action and not just words. Who should reach, for example: find out, if you are going to have government distributions, if the local charity Ugla at Undheim or the chess club for girls should receive support? Who wants to see the local organisations in a context, and where most local support is needed? Here, too, it's important to know the principle of subsidiarity and the knowledge of what's going on. It is not possible to allocate through the organisations at a central level. How does the Progress Party intend to solve this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e463	Now I think I actually answered that question in the previous line round, but I can try again. In principle, we have said that we trust that the organisations and the central links are doing this task themselves. They've proven that. I repeat that the Norwegian Music Council, the LNU and the Norwegian Amateur Theatre Council have proved that they are able to channel the funds down to local activity regardless of membership and connection to the central stage. But I'll also be allowed to say that I don't think we're done with the state's relationship to voluntarily working with these two messages. It is also why the Progress Party is now proposing to set up a coordinating body to evaluate the new model being introduced and its relationship with non-governmental organisations for two years to come. Because I actually agree with the representative Aarrestad and the government: I don't think we've done enough through these two messages to get to local activity. But I don't think medicine is providing funds through the municipalities and county municipalities. I think we need to do something to channel more of the funds down to local activity to get a fair distribution of funds. It is therefore a little strange that the Government and the Central Party do not want to be involved in setting up such a coordinating body, so that we can look at the problems and evaluate the scheme after two years, because if possible we can find other models through cooperation with the voluntary organisations and the ministry in order to get a fair distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e472	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e475	As the position shows, there is a broad political consensus on the important role of voluntary organisations in our society today and the role they will play in the future. It is very important, especially in view of the long-term work of organisations. There is no reason for them to feel alarm and uncertainty about the way society views their activities. If the parties stand by what they say – and I assume so – there will also be no danger of unforeseen dramatic changes in subsidies and other matters, even though there is disagreement in the Storting about who will distribute the funds under the new grant scheme. And let me stress that no one has expressed the desire to change the arrangements we already have to the detriment of the organizations. On the contrary, if there are to be changes here, it should be for their benefit. I'm thinking, for example. on more flexible control arrangements and better coordination between departments. With regard to the scope of voluntary action in the future, a unanimous committee says that it seems clear today that public welfare ambitions in some areas will be difficult to realise without the involvement of voluntary organisations. However, I find reason to draw up a note from the Workers' Party and SV, which we are strangely alone about. We point out that the organisations should not be assigned tasks such as: in the interests of fair distribution still needs to be a social responsibility. This does not mean that organisations’ offerings should be rejected, but society should not discharge its more solar responsibilities. Voluntary activities must continue to be complementary to the public offer. We don't want to go back to a 'civil society' where some people are completely praised that people other than society are making up. Without going into detail, I would say that we already see certain trends in this kind of development. The growth of the welfare society led to fundamental changes in the relationship between the country and the voluntary organisations. Public involvement increased where volunteering had been exclusive. A trend in the opposite direction would easily lead to an eroding of the welfare state itself, including, inter alia: increased differences as a result. In the light of yesterday's debate on administrative policy and the statement by the Administrative Councils that she is open to redefine the role of the State, I am somewhat concerned that the central parties could not support our remark. Let me make it clear that there is no downgrading of the organisations' efforts in the note. They have been key drivers in the development of the Norwegian welfare society and very often the first to assume responsibility for weak and vulnerable groups both at home and abroad. Public authorities have often followed suit. The index finger I raise is therefore directed to ourselves as politicians. The Workers' Party welcomes the additional information submitted by the Government. We see it as a natural follow-up of the intentions of St.meld. No 27 for 1996-97 by the government of Jagland. Also, our government wanted to facilitate increased activity on the local level by improving the framework conditions. We are therefore particularly pleased with the proposal for a new grant scheme for local teams and associations and support its objective. In a situation where there is a need to prevent violence, drug abuse, racism and other negative conditions, it is right to focus on child labour and youth work. To a large extent, it has recently been calling for more police in response to today's problems. But more police can never solve the problems – it can only prevent them. With regard to the proposal that the money be distributed through the county municipalities and municipalities, we do not agree. We want to use the central link of the organisations. With regard to the practical allocation system, there are several factors that have been crucial for us. We are particularly concerned that the State grant schemes should not affect the specific nature of organisations. Organisations are themselves responsible for determining the content and extent of their own activity — not public. This must be a central requirement for state involvement. Steinar Haugsvær wrote in a reading in the Norwegian Children's and Youth's Council, LNU, among others. the following: ‘With the municipalities responsible, their own policy priorities will have an impact on the actions supported locally by the organisation. In this perspective, the ideological change in course is obvious. We are close to a public management of the organisation’s local activities.» In our view, it is important that the state deals with civil society, represented by the voluntary organizations, as an independent pillar of our democracy, as expressed in a hearing opinion by Frisam. The role of municipalities in cultural policy still needs to be great, and I stress that municipalities have a separate responsibility here, including in creating a good breeding environment. With their closeness to the problems, they have the advantage that needs to be used. This effort can and should be managed politically by the municipalities according to local circumstances. But then we talk about prioritising municipal funds, not government funds earmarked for voluntary organisations, which have to be distributed by their own premises. It does not exclude local interaction on concrete actions. We also place great emphasis on the opinion of the Municipal Councils, which, on a principle basis, is extremely sceptical of the municipal authorities in fulfilling this task. KS says so strongly in a letter of 21 January 1999: ‘Public authorities should therefore not establish arrangements inviting the management of the local activities of non-governmental organisations as ‘under-use’ by general government – and without due respect for the autonomous role of voluntary activity.’ Another aspect that the Labour Party has emphasised is the desire for a simple system of as little public bureaucracy as possible. A system in which both county and local authorities are to be included will necessarily lead to more bureaucracy in terms of both distribution and control. By playing at the core of voluntary organisations, we will avoid this. In a letter dated 3 February 1999, the Ministry claims that the objectives behind the aid scheme cannot be achieved if the funds are channelled through the central links of the organisations. In our view, such a claim is a failure statement both to the central government itself and to the organisations. Let me remind you that the goal is to reach membership-based associations working with children and young people, and to support their activities and initiatives. It is therefore not public initiative that needs to be supported, but the own resources of the local associations. The Ministry shows, among other things: not all layers and associations are associated with national superstructures. That is improperly true, but I would like to refer to the consultation opinion of the volunteer cooperation body, Frisam, on this occasion, where it appears that the organisations will make themselves available to help find good solutions to this issue as well. Also Frisam is concerned that all local teams and associations must be guaranteed the possibility of grants in line with those with central links. We also have several good examples that funds have reached down to the so-called grass root through the central joints, also to layers that do not have such central joints. On this occasion, I will, for example, refer to the experience of the Norwegian Children’s and Youth Council, LNU, in allocating funds, among others. to local teams unconnected to nationwide children’s and youth organisations. I refer in particular to the project ‘Idebanken’, which in the period 1995-97 distributed several million kroner. In his speech to the Multicultural Youth Forum on 9 February this year, Prime Minister Bondevik said among other things: he was pleased that LNU has raised the idea of establishing the ‘Idebank’, the aim of which is to stimulate measures to reduce the distinctions between Norwegian youth and immigrant youth. He indicated that the action originated in the Council of Europe and in Norway’s initiative to launch a campaign against racism. The Youth Group played a central role in the implementation of the campaign. He also said he was excited about the development of this ‘Idebank’. We are fully behind the declaration of confidence that the Prime Minister here gives LNU, and we are amazed that the Minister of Culture can't do the same. We are convinced that the authorities, in cooperation with the organisations, will find appropriate mechanisms to ensure both that the funds go down to local level and ensure diversity at local level. Of course it is. It's just a matter of will and trust. The problems associated with drug abuse, violence and racism are among the greatest challenges we face in our society today. It is therefore good that the Government of the Supplementary Communication — under point 3.5 Other actions — refers to the possibility of cooperation at local level by using the programme to strengthen the growing environment. However, if this is to be the possibility, the programme must at least be returned to the funds cut off during the budgetary procedure, as promised by the Government. It goes without saying that NOK 100,000 will not be a contribution at all. It is with great disappointment that we note that the original 4 million. kr has not been put back into place in the revised national budget. Finally, another attempt to clarify the misunderstanding from the previous round: Let me refer to the comment – that is the special comment of the Advance Party. It says: ‘These members believe that this will contribute to less red tape and joint solutions across the board, the Committee further considers that it will counteract any trend towards advocacy between organisations and civil servants.’ Then it comes again: ‘These members will consider’, etc. It is clear that this is at the expense of the Progress Party. It is the Progress Party that has the Advocate-General, and it is natural to believe that he has also formulated this. This means that the Progress Party will have to take responsibility for this comment. And then I hope that's clarified from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e524	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e527	I have no intention of depriving myself of the responsibility for the comment. It is at the expense of the rapporteur and the Progress Party, and we stand by it. The working party has now signaled three times that they are not behind that remark, so it should be clear and clear. I have a question for the representative, Mr Breimo, concerning ‘Other actions’. It says: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Workers’ Party and the Socialist Left, considers it important that the ‘Development Programme for the Strengthening of the Growing Environment’ be continued as a cooperative action to combat negative traits in the youth environment’. The Labour Party, both through the 1999 budget and in all other contexts, has been high on the ground in combating violence in the youth environment and in bullying, and has promoted a wide range of measures and proposals, with a cost of 50 million. kr. But here, the Labour Party doesn't think it's right to support the majority. My question is then: is there any realism behind what the Workers' Party has done in combating violence, crime and negative patterns among young people, looking forward to their not wanting to continue, for strengthening the growing-up environment to combat negative traits in the youth environment? Or is it simply on a principle basis that they do not want to participate in this majority remark?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e539	First, I want to say I am pleased that we have clarified the misunderstanding that I referred to earlier. With regard to the question that Sandberg is raising, and the fact that the Workers' Party is not with the other majority, I have to refer to the comment that the Workers' Party and SV have in common, and that contains the same clarification, that we support this project. There can be no reason to doubt it at all. If Sandberg takes the trouble to read at the top right of page 25 of the setting, he will see our opinion clearly. Let me also remind you that the Workers' Party proposed to strengthen this post when the 1999 budget was discussed, and we are going to be ahead – with the whole chest, I can promise – to get this money back. Because it's so important the work to be done here, and if you don't have money on the government team for that program, I also think it would be very unfortunate to invite the municipalities to cooperate on this. I refer to what we talked about yesterday, how important it was that we had confidence between the administration and the citizens in the municipalities. This also applies between the State and the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e547	The Christian People's Party is very pleased with the broad consensus that it is initially about ending up with the voluntary organisations and providing better and more decent framework conditions for the organisation life. I also believe that voluntary organisations and teams, and associations at local level and in society at all, will have great significance in the society we face in the future. So we're very pleased with that consensus. However, I am a little surprised that the representative Breimo from the Workers' Party is so deeply concerned that we can move towards a charity society, or that we should be given an emphasis on charity. I thought the Workers' Party, which has just been the exponent for the development of a strong welfare state, and which has ensured that part of the foundation for the work of non-governmental organisations is almost torn away, now had to realize that there is no danger of such a development. I am also somewhat surprised that the Workers' Party, which is in order to strengthen the public sector, is thus helping to break the link between the voluntary organisations and the local authorities and municipalities. Breimo has a long experience as rapporteur in a municipality, and is perhaps the best person we know about the local authorities. I would assume that he also sees that the municipalities are the ones that are closest to having an overview of what is happening at the local level. Why has the Workers' Party here chosen to ignore the relationship between the municipal authorities and voluntary organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e556	Let me just repeat what I said in my post, that the Workers' Party is also very happy that we have a broad consensus on the role of organisations. I believe that if we look forward, we will in the future depend on the efforts of the organisations. When we find reason to point out and warn against a development towards a charity society, it is also linked to the fact that charity is something we ask for in a way. We don't want people to depend on a private offer to get their most elementary needs met, for example. in crisis situations. We don't want anyone to be given other initiative. We will build on the welfare community, where we build rights for most people – for all – so that we have common arrangements. It is true, as Lånker said, that the Workers' Party has been the foremost driver of the welfare society, and I can guarantee that we will continue to be. When he talks about tearing away the ties between the municipalities and the organisations, I have no faith in it. There is already very close contact between cultural offices in most municipalities and organisations. I don't think that channeling these funds through the central links of the organizations will rock it. The municipalities have, as Lånke said, an overview. What we have concluded, and which I would like to stress – and which the Ministry is also concerned about to the extent – is that the grant schemes should not affect the specific nature of the organisations. We cannot avoid this if the organisations are to receive government grants according to order of priority, or prioritized by the municipal politicians. Then we go in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e563	Unlike Loans and Christian People's Party, I would like to praise the Workers' Party for the efforts they have made in this matter. Especially happy is the fact that the Workers' Party is saying no to the municipalisation of voluntary Norway, to which the Government has now committed itself. But it still shines through a skepticism of civil society and the place of voluntary organisations in society in the Workers' Party few specific remarks. Gunnar Breimo stressed strongly in her main post that organisations should be complementary to the public. A supplement means an addition. For the right, this is different. A society without a strong civil sector is not a democratic society. It's a totalitarian regime. Of course, this is not what the Workers' Party believes, but the scepticism of getting ahead of volunteering is strong. This is also reflected in the note in which the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left reject the majority's proposal to convert the trade union quota deduction scheme into a more general scheme where one can deduct gifts and contributions to voluntary organisations. The Labour Party says that they will uphold their principle criticism of such an arrangement. What principle criticism? There is nothing about this criticism in the comments. What makes the Workers' Party consider trade unions more necessary than non-governmental organisations? Is it true that the Workers' Party has a ranking list, where the state and the public are number one, the trade unions number two and the voluntary teams and organisations number three?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e570	Normally I don't use to be so very happy when I get praise from the right side of Norwegian politics, but this time I accept it, because I think it's well deserved. Let me also just stress that I can't understand how Trond Helleland can manage to draw out what we've said, that we almost see a development towards a totalitarian society. I'm very happy that he, after all, made it clear that he didn't believe that, but I think that remark was a little trendy. When it comes to tax matters, we refer to what the financial fraction has said. It's possible to find out there if Greece is interested in it. We consider the union quota to be fundamentally different from grants to private, non-profit organisations. I also want to point to a relationship. If we were to allow the right of deduction for gifts to organisations, how are we going to be able to draw the line here, first of all to define which organisations are supposed to be entitled to receive this support, and second of all, what kind of gifts are the ones that should be deductible? Should it be just cash, or should it be, for example. be gifts for lottery purposes, etc.? I think you're in the wild if you go in that direction. We need to find other ways to support organisational life, because it is absolutely vital that we have an up-to-date organisational life in the future, not least as a corrective to the authorities in many contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e581	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e584	The current treatment of two large-scale reports on the state's relationship with non-governmental organisations sets a preliminary finish line for a long political process that started with the presentation of the position of the Corvald Committee in 1988. A variety of large-scale documents have dealt with the relationship with non-governmental organisations over time. The Christian People's Party has struggled for the best possible conditions for voluntary organizations throughout the years. We are therefore very pleased that today there is a greater consensus than ever that this is necessary. Unfortunately, there are clear signs that the emergence of most NPISHs shows some dramatic decline. Researcher Jan H. Heitmann describes in the Kommunal Report on 30 April 1999 a situation in which very many of the traditional volunteer organizations are struggling in reverse. The reasons for this, says Heitmann, are, in part, what he calls “cannibalistic states”, where the organisations are cracking each other, because there are too many of them in a small geographical area and in a limited population. He also shows that people of working age today are struggling to a large extent with time budgets. Travel and labour are in focus, and the exposure to others is shrinking to a great extent. He concludes that organisations must make a targeted effort to survive themselves, but Heitmann also stresses that a community without voluntary associations is a society in crisis. On such a background, it is therefore very gratifying that a joint committee in the setting expresses the wish to call about the voluntary organisation life. The Committee underlines the importance that voluntary organisations have had in society to date, as social, religious and cultural traditional and value intermediaries. In particular, the organisations provide leadership training and contribute to the promotion of democracy and team spirit. Today, political parties are united on the objective, strengthening the framework conditions of voluntary organisations. Nevertheless, we regret to note that the majority of the Committee has not found that it would support the Government's proposal for a distribution model within a new support scheme. In this context, it is a little disappointing to be met with accusations that we are showing distrust to non-governmental organisations and will help undermine their organisational structure. We would have thought that you had a greater experience than that. I don't think anyone has any phase response, and probably we never get any answer to which scheme would work best. However, it is important that we now work together to ensure that the system of majority voting will give the most positive count for local child labour and youth work. This will contribute to the Christian People's Party, although we do not conceal that we believe that a distribution through the municipal administration would have been the one that both ensured the greatest resource access overall and could best preserve the breadth and diversity of local child and youth work. Today, the state allocates around 4-5 billion kroner in total to organisations through their central links. By proposing that the new aid scheme be distributed through another channel, it would be easier to avoid a merger with the other aid schemes. In addition, the Minister of Culture, in his letter to the Committee attached to the nomination, pointed out that channelling the funds through the central stages of the organisations has a greater administrative impact on the central administration and, as a whole, becomes more extensive for the organisations than the scheme proposed by the Government. However, we note that that scheme does not receive a majority, and it is therefore important to stress that clear leadership is now being put in place to ensure that the new support scheme fully benefits local child labour and youth work. Both of the big messages have this in mind. The so-called Supplementary Communication also points to other measures that the Government wants to promote. A regulation of the gambling market is announced. Such regulation should provide a basis for an improved financial situation also for non-governmental organisations and contribute to a fairer distribution of the total shares of our organisations in the gambling and lottery markets. The government’s efforts to provide a better overview and control of the slot machine market are necessary to counteract gambling dependence and to develop a negative gambling culture in the children’s and young people’s growing-up environment. Furthermore, in its opinion, a majority of the Committee, consisting of the Advance Party, the Right and the Government Parties, expressed their agreement that the Government should submit proposals for a system of right of deduction for contributions and gifts to non-governmental organisations. In particular, the implementation of such a scheme could make an important contribution to relieving organisations’ economies and reducing their dependence on public support in the long term. Finally, I would like to address the proposal that the Christian People's Party is promoting together with the Central Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e610	Ola T. Loans have drawn up the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e615	The Christian People's Party cannot understand that there can be more bureaucracy of the proposed system, but let me try to show it. First, the money has to go from state to state. Then the county will address the municipalities. Then the municipalities will address the organisations. Then the municipalities will get feedback. Then the municipalities have to give priority. Then the municipalities must notify the county and the county must pay grants. Layers shall report to the municipalities on its use, the municipalities shall report to the county and the county shall probably report to the department. It is possible that there may be coverage to say that the other scheme will lead to a somewhat greater burden on the ministry, as may be the case. Overall, however, there will be no more bureaucracy by using the organisations that now have their appliances intact than by establishing completely new public schemes. It is also necessary to establish new control systems, etc. Organisations have their control systems. My question to Ola T. Loan is then: how can there be less bureaucracy when more public bodies are to be involved up to several times?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e624	The representative Breimo provides me with a formidable settlement with the entire municipal administration in his reply. It surprises me that the Labour Party has such a negative view of the procedure in our public administration. A number of criticisms have been made about late action, and this has not least been raised by the current government, with the Prime Minister at the head, and a programme has been launched for a simpler Norway, a difficult programme that we want to tackle. But that it should be as bad as the representative Breimo describes, I find it hard to understand. These arrangements are there today, and that's exactly what the Government's point is – that we know these channels. There are also routines in respect of cultural means that go through county municipalities. This is an up-to-date race. Some administration is also going to be here, but it's the government's and government's clear view that this will be a much simpler way down to the diversity of the basics of organisational life than going through the central stages of organizations. I don't necessarily think it's so awfully wrong either. I have not said that it will not necessarily work, it may well be that it will. We'll see and try to make it work now that you get a different majority. But I think that if you have to deal with a wide range of types of organisations from the state, it will be much harder to get an overview of and find the right distribution compared to those who are going to have this money, which is at the bottom of the local level. The money must then be disseminated via the central and regional levels and down to the individual organisation. It requires that all organisations operate according to this objective. It's probably true that a lot of people do it, but I don't think everyone does it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e631	Christian People's Party and the Center Party write in their comments: ‘These members do not consider that there is any basis for claiming that a mechanism whereby funds are transferred through the local government would have the effect of reducing local authorities’ own allocations...’» We saw during the process of volunteering that it was already signalled from different municipalities that they were on the way to reducing their existing appropriations. My sincere and honest question to the representative Lånke, to whom I also expect an open and sincere answer, is: Do you believe that more money entering the municipal fund will result in municipalities maintaining today's level of transfers to local teams and organisations? I understand that the government has some doubts about whether it would lead to increased bureaucracy or increased administration to transfer the money to municipalities and county councils. The Christian People's Party and the Center Party further mention in their comments examples that if we transfer this to the central ranks, it will lead to increased bureaucracy. Then, in its comments, the Progress Party shows an example that this is not the case. We also knew that during the treatment. This concerns Norwegian Music Council and the payment of Flax funds. As I said in my main post, there was an opening here so that the Norwegian Music Council could take 10 pst. to your own administration - call it bureaucracy. It turns out that when they allocate these funds, they also use the funds earmarked for administration, for local teams and organisations. Is that not enough evidence for the representative Lånke that the organisations themselves are doing this, without further bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e645	First to the question of whether I don't think the municipal authorities will reduce the existing support to the non-governmental organisations when they know that there is money coming from the state via the municipalities. It is a well-known case that many municipalities are in a difficult economic situation and have had to rationalise and to some extent also reduce the municipal cultural administration. I'm sorry. I believe that to the extent that support for voluntary work is reduced, it is due to quite different factors, quite different from the fact that a new central support system is now being established. We've been concerned about this issue, and the government has been. One should also admit that this may be one of the uncertainties of the new scheme. For this reason, it has been decided to allocate these funds through the county municipalities, so that the municipalities do not have the money transferred directly, but that they should give tasks to the county councils, which in turn distribute them to the organisational life. There's been one way to do this. Another way is to use time limits in the year other than the usual budgetary deadlines to ensure that this is not done. In addition, I think this is a rail argument, because the municipalities know very well – they are so well informed today – that it flows to the organisations more resources from the state no matter which channel these are sent through. So if there was any argument, I would say that I think it would work anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e653	It has become increasingly clear through the debate how important it is that we actually get a key that does not involve the municipal budgets, because there should be support for non-governmental organisations and teams, and there should not be support for municipal budgets. But when I hear that May-Helen Molvær Grimstad says that an additional amount distributed by the proportion of children and young people in each municipality is an allocation criterion, and at the same time hears that the representative Loanke is concerned that the extra allocation of funds can tear over existing ties between the municipalities and local voluntary organisations, as if the allocation of extra local funds means that the municipalities are now going to give up their own responsibility, because now the state is going to take care of this, I think that in these statements there are clear indications that the Christian People's Party also knows very well that if these funds go through municipalities and counties, they are put into the budget of municipalities and counties. I also want to ask, since no one else has mentioned it, whether the Christian People's Party thinks it makes particular sense that 5 pst. of these funds to go to local teams and organisations shall be made available at the municipal level by county culture politicians. Is it really Lånke that the creeds and strata of voluntary teams and organisations are unable to stand for the cooperation themselves? I don't always think that municipal administration is what stands out most in terms of cooperation across the municipal borders. I mean, volunteering does a lot better.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e660	I think very well that the voluntary organisations will be able to distribute these resources in a sensible way. It is in our view of the organization that we have full confidence in the organisations, so I sincerely hope that it is not the impression that we do not have it. When it comes to the question of what practical arrangements we are going to find, I see it as a purely appropriate consideration. And with regard to whether the municipalities can include this in the municipal budgets, I can say that they can't do it without going on, because these are earmarked funds that are just going to flow into the children's and youth's work locally. What's the advantage of this way of doing it is that we can also take advantage of the unorganized part of youth and the teams and associations that are not connected to a central link. I doubt whether organisations like LNU, Norwegian Music Council and others in the long run, even though it has worked over time, will be able to capture the broad activity that occurs on the local level when these are not organized to the top. I do not ignore the fact that the municipalities will reduce their own support schemes and funds for voluntary teams and organisations, but I do not think, as I said in my previous reply, that it is necessarily because the organisations get this money. I think the municipalities also see the need for voluntary organisational life. But the municipalities have to give very careful priority to what they spend their money on, and I think that's why we've now seen a decline. But this very fact that the state so strongly prioritises organisational life should also be an incentive for municipalities and counties to do the same. And finally to this with that 5 pst. the funds will go to county cooperation projects. We think that might be necessary and positive, because that's not all that's caught locally. I think we have a lot to earn and get from a regional cooperation at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e669	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e672	Let me take to heart the last time that Ola T. Loan now said that the allocation scheme that they have proposed will reach those unorganised ones. Yes, but this aid scheme applied to organisations. Many praiseworthy words have been said about volunteer Norway from this pulpit, and well deserved all of them. I am not going to repeat what previous speakers have said about different types of organisations and their importance for well-being, culture, democratic development and local communities, but just state that we all agree here. That is why I see no reason to go further into the parts of the comments that a joint committee has been working towards and agreeing on. The disagreement concerns the income ratio of voluntary Norway, the distribution of national funds and the allocation to member-based organisations. Voluntary Norway has a long tradition of obtaining income for its own business. We're all grown up with prayer-house bazaars, lotteries, brand sales, tile otters and doughnuts. Business and private life have contributed both with pure donations of money and with profits to the innumerable distributions, and in the course of time, diligent hands have produced handicrafts for millions of dollars. In addition, the nationwide lotteries, which were once crucial for the economy of non-governmental organisations, were introduced. But this private receipts has been increasingly pushed into a corner by an increasing government income exposure where the government is addressing each of us, and with strong instruments attracting our crowns. The person who previously bought lots in a land lot for 100 kroner with the prospect of winning a car, is paying the same 100 kroner today on a lottocoupon that can give several million in pay-outs in the course of a week. It is impossible for non-governmental organisations to compete with state lotteries. Even more often, we get the large public collections, which, through the deliberate use of media, appeal to our conscience. Some people need it more than the local handball club. In fact, there is a limit, including in Norway, to how much voluntary money you can get out of the population. Once the country has so consumed itself on the traditional income basis, it is certainly reasonable that part of the profits from the state’s lottery activities are due to voluntary teams and organisations, so that they are given the financial opportunity to continue and further develop the work that we all very much agree on is important. But then the voluntary aspect must not be lost, nor must we construct schemes that put volunteering under public administration. There is a broad consensus that the proposed support scheme should be targeted specifically at the local level of organisations. It is also widely agreed that when designing public support schemes, it is important to find award criteria which guarantee the freedom of establishment of organisations and which also do not affect the specific nature and priorities of organisations. It is therefore strange that the Government fraction of the Committee maintains the Government’s proposal for a practical design of the new aid scheme that will in practice undermine the organisational structure that has developed gradually. Norwegian non-governmental organisations are well organised, from the local level, through the county and county levels and up to the organisation at national level. At all levels, we find democratically elected organisational leaders, and these are, according to their own organisation's interests, engaged in the maximum activity of the members living at the local level. For most, the cost of organisational operations is closely linked to the quota per. a member at local level and therefore has its own reporting procedures for activity. Requirements for approved audits provide ample opportunity for sustainable control of the use of funds. It is also pointed out by the organisations that have been consulted. With the overview from the top, we see no reason for a voluntary bureaucracy to be set up in the counties and municipalities to deal with the allocation of funds and the follow-up to the use of these funds. I am surprised that this government that has been so busy that we need to mobilise for increased private liability, as has been said for many years, is not willing to give private Norway the responsibility they ask to take. And I have to repeat my heartache from yesterday's management debate: the government says one thing, and then they do something quite different in practice. Yesterday we talked about a growing public administration that is being allocated ever new tasks that no ordinary people have asked them to take responsibility for, but that only politicians with an overdeveloped sense of control see the need for. Similarly, private organisations have not asked politicians and their management to take care of distribution and support for the local activity of private organisations – on the contrary, they are asking for this policy interference to be avoided. They are asking to rule themselves, as they have done in an excellent way at all times. Organisations have internal controls, and they are still having problems dealing with reporting procedures imposed on them by public administrations. They ask to take responsibility themselves. Is it not precisely the mobilization of responsibilities and the voluntary nature of today's society? How can we expect the sense of responsibility of ordinary people to grow if we constantly remove new responsibilities and say that this must be the responsibility of the public? What, then, is left of voluntary Norway? Is it true that government councils and government parties have more confidence in local politicians and public employees than in voluntary Norway, which is otherwise praised in very harsh order? They deserve the rose, too. The centre party has many rapporteurs, both locally and at state level, and the centre party likes to regulate detail. I imagine a election campaign in which the local candidates profile themselves on which non-governmental organisations they will recommend for support in the coming period. And I am delighted that a majority in the committee is preventing this by means of the decision that we agree on. Because the Government's proposals, which the Government parties continue to support, provide a clear opportunity for political governance of these funds, both at local and county level. The Ministry has proposed that 5 pst. the funds shall be disposed of by the county so that, at the county level, there is a political opportunity to initiate cooperation between different organisations across the municipalities. State politicians would like to get in touch with such incentives – great if they do, but not for this money. Then they get to use their own budgets. That's what's meant. These funds shall not replace county funds, which are currently used in exactly the same way. The possible mandate of municipalities to provide funds is said to confer a high degree of freedom on municipalities when assessing which organisations and activities are to be prioritised. This does not only invite local lobbying, it points to a trend in policy priorities leading to the development of voluntary Norway. We don't want it like that. It also makes a clear reference to a system where the question of instability can become a very tricky question. With today's situation in the Ministry of Local Affairs, there should be no need to elaborate on this. In the right we mean what we say, when we express great confidence in the volunteer organizations. And in the right we see that responsibility and trust are two sides of the same thing. We feel confident that the voluntary organisations prove to be trustworthy when we give them responsibility for self-distributing the funds through their central links. It has been pointed out by the large organisations that they can take care of the distribution to local organisations, without central links, and previous experiences with LNU, Norwegian Music Council and Norwegian Amateur Theater Council have shown that they handle this in a good way. The experience of Denmark, where the LNU sister organisation allocates state funds to local organisations and teams, also has good experience. As I said, the first condition for people to show responsibility is that they are shown trust. There is also a disagreement between age limits. The government receives support from its own large-scale groups and the Advance Party when they want to lower the current age limit from 25 to 18 years. In the Right, we believe that today’s age limit should be maintained, because it gives greater opportunity to strengthen those organisations where young people themselves exercise real governance and are not governed by adults. Previous reference was made to sports organisations as a good example of organisations that stimulate activities for children and young people. Yeah, but the boys' clubs and the knee layers aren't being democratically run by themselves. They're run by adults. We believe it is important that young people take early responsibility for their own activities and that they become early responsible participants in their own, voluntary organisations. The aid scheme we are debating today should not replace established schemes. It's going to be an addition. The government’s organisational proposals could easily lead to government allocations becoming a factor with which some councillors or heavily pressured municipal politicians would calculate, because they would know the figures and reduce the municipal contribution to voluntary activities. This is a development which we in the Right are looking at with great concern, and which we hope today's decision will prevent.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e707	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e710	Local authorities will reduce transfers to local layers if they get more to local transfers, with the Right claim. There is no more reason to believe that this will happen than if one knew that there were major transfers to local layers from the central government – if one of the trusted municipalities thought that way. Rather, the proposed system of transmission via municipalities will help to strengthen contact between voluntary work and municipal administration, which must be seen as a monthly benefit. The center party is in favour of the principle of proximity, where decisions are taken near where people live and cage. Nor can I see that the proposed scheme will result in the creation of additional bureaucracy and new control systems, for which the Right is so afraid. On the contrary, a system of channelling funds through their central links will have greater administrative implications for organisations than the government has proposed. This is also thoroughly underlined in the letter from the Minister of Culture, dated 3 February this year. Doesn't the right reality see in this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e719	I don't think the Right has any problems with the Reality. But we want the voluntary organizations to determine their own activity. It is not the local government that is to sit and govern the dispositions and activities of non-governmental organisations. When the distribution of this money goes through the central joints of the organisations, it is not sent at the same time, I get hope, a report to the municipalities about how much money the Scout Association gets and how much 4 H gets. This will become a matter between the ministry and non-governmental organisations, and then municipalities and the counties themselves will maintain the activity they currently have in relation to voluntary teams and organisations. In fact, we have confidence that they will, because politicians in the local community are largely concerned about supporting local teams and organisations. Counselors are not quite so concerned about it, so this can easily be a battle at local level between councillors and politicians. We can save them for that. Nor are we so terribly pleased with more and more ear-marked substances. On the contrary, we want municipalities to dispose of their own money as much as possible. But the government parties and the department will now come in with a new ear-marked pot. It becomes part of the municipal budget as it is now produced. It will be clearer and clearer through the debate here. That's obviously how they think, and it scares me.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e731	To clarify – and correct the Right a little bit: I expect that in the case of the mentioned comment, where the Committee has crept into the middle of a comment from the Progress Party, the Right shall not join it. My question is linked to what is stated in the comment, that the proposal of the Progress Party ‘will counteract any trend towards advocacy between organisations and civil servants’. The question is: does the Right believe that everything going on from the assignment to non-governmental organisations from the civil service is being done in a fair and correct way on the basis of the criteria? Without going that episode too far, we see that the Ministry of Culture almost immediately grants NOK 70 000 to a rock concert, which of course should have belonged to the Ministry of Culture. I believe that what we are now doing in relation to St.meld. No 27 for 1996-97 and St.meld. No 44 for 1997-98, will the relations between the civil service and the organisations become so pure-haired that we do not need a further assessment beyond this? And does this mean that the Right does not want to be with the Advance Party and set up a coordinating body, which will evaluate and monitor the development of the relationship between the government and the organisations in the future? What is going to be the big difference for the Right between the existing system and what will possibly be the outcome of the new funds, which will come through the merging of games and the 10 pst? to go to children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e742	I have to say that I was a little surprised, because I thought a line change would be about what was said, and what the individual parties have said in the setting. I was not really prepared for the Progress Party to use my line change to talk about its own comments. I don't want to go in here and take a decision on the camaraderie between government and public funds applicants. That it may occur to some extent, yes, I think so, but I think we should be very careful to detail such a thing from this pulpit. I don't want to get into a situation where I've made accusations against people who aren't there and can defend themselves. But it is clear that any system of public funding must be under control. This should not be intrusive, for example. in relation to the allocation of public funds. There shall be no personal interest or bond between the person making an award and the applicant for an award. These are so clear principles in our administration that it should be of course. It shouldn't be necessary to use a line chord switch to talk about it at all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e749	It is not a big surprise that the Right is reserved in relation to the transfer of funds to municipal and county authorities. In terms of this fear of earmarking means, I don't think you're going to put so much emphasis on it in this context, because here we're talking about ear-marked means anyway. They are no less ear-marked – fortunately – those to be channelled through the central links of organisations. They just have to be ear-marked, all the way down to the locust. With regard to the concept of unorganised youth, which I was going to use, it is right that this support scheme is primarily intended for membership-based work, and it stands firm. But with unorganized youth, we meant young people who are not part of any team or association. It would be a natural task for the municipality also by means of its own means to stimulate them to enter into existing layers or form their own. Skateboard clubs and other activities can be organised because it provides management training. And there must also be some of the purpose here. In addition, there are those layers that have no contact up, which we think will be forgotten. Pride-Nielsen wonders that the Government has more confidence in local municipal bodies than in the organisations. It is not a matter of trust or distrust in this context. After all, the state transfers annual funds in the 5-billion-dollar class to the organisations. Does this indicate distrust of organizations? This system represents “peanuts” for comparison, so I take away from the fact that the government parties were to show some distrust of the organisations and have greater confidence in municipal bodies. This is about appropriateness.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e759	For practical reasons, the President would say that any joint remarks do not necessarily require the common use of the water bottle.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e762	Sorry, I didn't hear what the president said.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e767	If you were to need a drink, the president would draw attention to the fact that several representatives have now entered the same glass, without any apparent influence on it. There's a chance to choose a new glass! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e772	Now Lonke said again that these funds should be used in part for people who are not organised. But these funds are, of course, earmarked for private teams and organisations, as Lännke himself says, and we don't have any organization if those in that organization aren't actually organized in it. That's where this money is going to be spent. It has always been the responsibility of the municipalities to take care of the part of the youth that is not organised, and we should not take this responsibility from the municipality, because we have confidence in the municipalities as well. In fact, we have confidence that they can handle their own unorganized youth. They've been doing it every year, and the fact that we're now adding special support schemes to organizations doesn't mean we're taking anything from those who're unorganized. This is to be taken care of by the municipalities themselves, completely undisturbed by the incorporation of Storting. There's no one else with it, and we have full confidence that they can do it. I can't quite understand that Lånke also sees that we are getting an increase in bureaucracy and increased public governance with the funds of private teams and organisations using the scheme that the Government has set up. Gunnar Breimo correctly described the procedure for allocating funds according to the government's model: through the interconnector, and at all stages, there will be bureaucrats to deal with applications that go one way or the other in the system. This may not be necessary when the organisations say that they can do this themselves. Let them do it on their own. They've made it all year to now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e779	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e782	The starting point for voluntary organisations is that an active and living community is of fundamental value for the further development of the welfare society. This is what this message is generating policy for. Everything Aristotle discovered that there was a third sector between the commercial and the state doctor. Human beings will simply always come together and create the self-activity that organization life is. We can then ask whether the community can survive without voluntary organisations. The answer must be a clear no. Nevertheless, the upswings of most non-profit organisations have unfortunately suffered a dramatic decline. On the one hand we know that a number of sports teams and clubs take care of children and young people who would otherwise have been a burden on child protection, police and social action. So it's not hard to prove that a society without the ideal commitment will be able to become a society in crisis. We can also turn this around and see it from another angle of incidence. The health services in the country collect 100 million each year. kr through different types of local activities. They don't do this to become a prosperous organization, but to plow it back to the community through various help measures. Man is a great help to society and to creating well-being for all of us. There is no doubt that voluntary organisations have the ability to create trust. Organisations may offer their members their association to a social community, and they also have one thing in common, that is, their ability to build and maintain identity-creating and meaningful communities. There are important berebels in all areas of society. Both of the messages that form the basis of this setting are intended to strengthen the local business community, but this is the way to distribute the money to local organisations, which has created the most debate in this matter. The aim of the state support is to stimulate health and disability within the local organisation life. It is assumed that local associations and layers are independent organisations, not just part of a larger organisational unit – an umbrella. Local layers make up the core of the membership-based function. Any allocation through the umbrella organisations will have to be based on the national level’s overarching responsibility for the whole organisation’s development. However, when the objective is to strengthen activity and participation at the local level for the youngest, it must be both prudent and proper to provide support directly to the level of this activity. This must also include local teams and organisations which are not associated with a national superstructure and which will easily fall outside the scope of national allocation. It is simply not possible to maintain a central level distribution of organisations. The allocation of funds from the proposed incentive scheme must be based on local activity and on local needs for support. They know what's going on locally. In the case of central organisations, current sectoral responsibilities between ministries will be maintained. It is important to note that the Government’s commitment to the local level will be in addition to the existing support system for the central stage – not rather, which many have imagined. I think there's been a widespread misunderstanding here; umbrella organizations have perceived this as a mistrust. But it never has any meaning. They should get the same thing -- only locally would a get a supplement. This is where the member-based function will be performed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e805	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e808	The fact that the Central Party has very great faith in the municipality and the county municipality is no surprise, but to think that everything can be done best through these is well to go too far. In their proposal together with the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party wishes to allocate the State grant scheme to voluntary teams and organisations through the county municipalities on a proposal from the municipalities. This applies in particular to organisations not linked to a national paragraph. The Central Party does not believe that this proposal could create discrimination depending on the municipality in which you live, depending on, among other things. who governs such matters, their priorities and not least their interests? Doesn't the Center Party think that, in addition to being a delaying intermediary, it's also a predatory joint? Does not the Centre Party have faith and confidence that individual organisations can do this in the best possible way when, in the light of the views of the Progress Party, at least, the individual volunteer organisation knows best and knows how to use the funds for the benefit of all?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e815	Yes, the Center Party has faith in the municipalities – we have faith in the principle of subsidiarity, we believe that they know best to use the funds that are closest to those that are to be given them. We'll have faith in that in the future, too, and we're not afraid that the municipalities shouldn't know what kind of organizations they're going to give the most, and at least the means. We also believe that those organisations that are not related to the central links, umbrellas, and also have a possibility – and I don't understand, to ask questions back, how the Progress Party will actually organise this if you don't use the locals who know the conditions to distribute the funds. That there may be a certain difference between the municipality and the municipality, I think I'm fine. It is the municipality that is then responsible for the distribution, and must take the consequences if someone thinks that something was not the way it should be. I believe that if there is a central link to allocate funds to small, local organisations — many of them — then it may be harder to target it well enough. I know that in some municipalities there may be only a few types of organisations, and perhaps some of those who control them, are asking someone to start something new – but how could they do that if they were centrally and not locally?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e824	This post from the representative of the Central Party was quite interesting. She has enormous confidence in the municipalities. In other words, the mistrust of voluntary organisations is equally strong. In a letter to the Committee dated 3 February 1999, the Minister for Culture replied to questions from the Committee on the feasibility of providing funds to the non-central organisations through the central organisations. The Minister of Culture responds that it is not possible to allocate it through organisations at local level. So, she thinks it's impossible. The representative of the Central Party also believes that this is impossible. Now, in fact, LNU has received money from the Department of Youth against Racism "95. The money was allocated to local projects regardless of whether they had a central organisation or not. Prime Minister Bondevik commends this idea bank which is working on a campaign against racism. But both the Minister of Culture and the representative of the Central Party do not believe that this is the case. If they do not stand behind their prime minister, they have no confidence in, for example. LNU can handle this? My question to the representative Aarrestad is this: Is the mistrust of LNU so strong that she prefers municipalities and county municipalities rather than LNU to do the job they have done in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e838	If the representative Grethe G. Fossum had followed me on my post, she would hear me say that it is important that umbrella organisations, like LNU, take care of most of this. They're in charge. They're an organizational superstructure for a lot of people, and they're doing a very good job. Now, what's special is that you have to add to local cultural activities for the younger ones, and in our opinion they're under 18 years old, because we're going to give the most possible money to the younger ones. It shall be in addition to the money provided to LNU and other organisations centrally. This is not a distrust at all. It's just that you want to make an extra effort for your local cultural life, and you have to do that by aligning your money locally. We trust that people who sit around the municipalities and decide this here, maybe they know best when they need some extra money, how the shoe prints the most, and who's going to give the funds to. I think that's right!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e848	After hearing the response from Unn Aarrestad to the two lines she has received, I just have to state that the Centre Party has a fundamental mistrust of the voluntary organisations and their ability to care for the interests of their own members. Because if this system were to be abused and the money would remain at the top of the organizations, does not the Central Party believe that the internal democratic processes in the organisations will ensure that things are going to be right, that grassroots rebels and say that they will not find out that the money does not come down to layers at local level? If the answer to this question is yes, there is no problem, because then the self-justice in the organisations will clean up, the top management will be kicked and the grassroots will be passed. But if Aarrestad's answer to this question is no, as there is reason to believe, does it mean that the Central Party does not mean anything with the honorary orders about the democratic building role of organisations and their important place in Norwegian society? What makes organisations exposed to this suspicion – are there perhaps promises made internally in the Central Party to the many rapporteurs that we will get this system through, so that the municipalities can get something more to puzzle with? Is this the simple explanation of the Government’s attempt to ‘municipalise’ the voluntary nature of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e857	The representative of Greece spoke about the fact that grassroots could rebel against the central links of organisations. I hope the grass roots know what they want, and that they channel their ideas into the central ladder, which in turn will take care of this. But one of the points of the Center Party by going in to distribute this on a local scale is that some places have only grass roots – nothing else. It has to be understood, even for the representative from the Right, that those organisations that have no superstructure, they have nothing to rebel against. And how are they going to proceed, how are they going to get added, and how are they going to be helped to live, grow and grow on a local level? That's what this is all about. It must then be understood that there is no mistrust of voluntary organisations. It's just to get the lack that we're going in for this solution right here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e862	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e865	The left is pleased that the Storting now finally has the opportunity to address the state’s relationship with voluntary organisations. It's been a long time since NOW 1988:17 came. The voluntary organisations mean a lot to our society, and it is an important public task to stimulate increased voluntary involvement. St. Report. No 27 for 1996-97 refers to several justifications for the advantage of voluntary organisations. For the Left, it is important that society facilitates the use of people's commitment, enthusiasm and motivation. The driving force of voluntary organisations is just good human commitment, while money is often a necessary prerequisite for full voluntary work. Voluntary organisations are characterised by democratic and unbureaucratic organisational structures, few resources and a lot of activity. Therefore, they are an important contribution to democracy and the welfare society. The grant scheme has been discussed. The left wants the government grants to benefit local activity. The voluntary organisations have expressed their opinion against the municipalities that manage the public support for local activities. The concerns we have raised are, in part, that the support could be reduced by a public, cost-effective administration, and that organisations have voiced fears that today's municipal support might be reduced due to the strained economy of many municipalities. The second main reason for our concern is a little bit more principleal in nature. With the municipality as grant manager, it may be possible for the municipality to provide strong leadership on the projects supported by the local teams at the expense of the organisations’ own project wishes. Despite the discussion that has been held, the Left has come to the conclusion that we support the Government's proposal to channel funds directly to local activity through the local government. The left sees that such a grant scheme can strengthen non-governmental organisations locally, and this is in line with the policy of the Left. In addition, the Government proposes that, in sum, there will be no weakening of the current level of grants. The left is concerned with the circumstances of people who spend their leisure time working in non-governmental organisations, such as a football coach for the small-god team, a music teacher for the school corps or an active youth politician. Your spare time is short, but your commitment is great. The left wants the administrative work of the organisations not to break the glow of the organisation life. In line with the need for official control and the need for organisations to use resources for specific social activities, the Left wants the control and reporting procedures to be as simple as possible. In 330 municipalities throughout the country, the Left candidates are listed in front of the autumn's elections. An important task for the Left locally and centrally will be to ensure the proper functioning of grant schemes and control reporting schemes for voluntary organisations. We believe that the Government, regardless of the scheme, can contribute to strengthening the activities of the voluntary organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e882	Both the Jagland government and the Bondevik government have been involved by the voluntary organisations. The messages we are dealing with today make fundamental marks on the roles and responsibilities of voluntary organisations and the state. Both messages identify the specific nature and diversity of organisations. This is important because it ensures that organisations can develop through the democratic decisions taken by the members, even if they receive government grants. The notifications also raise the border between non-governmental organisations where members are grouped to engage in activity, solve a problem or engage in a common concern, and another area where voluntary associations cooperate with the administration in a number of areas. Such measures receive public support and are also based on membership-based volunteering. Clearly, we all want to strengthen this form of cooperation. The third group consists of voluntary associations producing public welfare benefits. I think it has been important to clean up these three areas in terms of voluntary organisations. What has been most discussed is not the third division, but how the Government's new arrangement for the distribution of Flax funds is to be organised. We all agree that it is desirable to stimulate the activity of local volunteer organisations. Both Prime Minister Bondevik and Thorbjørn Jagland have on several occasions pointed to the major challenges we face in the community, and Prime Minister Bondevik's solution has been a strengthening of civil society to balance state power and market power. It is also important for the Workers' Party. It is therefore strange to me that Minister of Culture Lahnstein claims that a pledge for the popular voluntary engagement can only be achieved by allocating government funds to local teams and associations through the counties and municipalities. If the funds are distributed through the central stages of the voluntary organisations, it will strengthen the central links and not the local voluntary activities, claims the Minister of Culture. For me, it's hard to see that the Council's arguments for method of award are rooted in the real world. An overall voluntary organisation life — from the Red Cross to the Debt Victim Alliance — has recommended the Stortinget to distribute the funds through the central links. On the other hand, organisations have given the Stortinget a promise that the funds will be used to strengthen local layers and that administrative costs will be kept to a minimum. I think that the organizations have just given this promise with joy, because their main capital is, of course, voluntary. Therefore, it is a little strange to me that the Minister of Culture has not found that he would listen to the organisations in this matter. Now it's the way that we politicians don't always listen to all the good advice that comes from society. It would have been different if the organizations had proved that they couldn't do it. But that's the opposite. The Minister of Culture's argument for distributing the money through counties and municipalities is as follows: The funds tend to remain at the core of the organisation, not catching up with the local organisations that do not have nation-wide organisations. This argument was also put forward here by the representative of Aarrestad. The Minister of Culture has also expressed the view that it is an exciting idea to allow municipal politicians to manage the distribution. The problem for the Minister of Culture is that the central parts of voluntary organisations have just proved that they are able to distribute the money in the way that the majority of the population has now opened up. Both the LNU and the Norwegian Amateur Theatre Councils have been given the confidence to allocate funds through their central links to the local joints, without the ministry finding reason to blame them, but on the contrary, they have praised the considerable efforts they have made. They have even done the artwork that they have distributed to local teams that have not been members of their central organisation. I think I have reason to argue that the Government's proposal would not strengthen the local level and the local community's place in national policy, but, on the contrary, weaken it. Through its proposal to distribute funds through municipalities and county municipalities, the Minister of Culture has actually weakened the confidence that the central links will be a speaker for the local voluntary life, and this confidence should be restored as soon as possible by the Minister of Culture. Of course, it can be that we have creeping suspicions in these budget days, and they also apply to me. By channelling Flax millions through the public sector, can the Minister of Culture never need to show politically that there are increased transfers to the municipal sector, and thus – through it – sacrifice the voluntary organisations in a game for several centre-participators? I choose to believe that this is not the case, and that the Minister of Culture with weight and creativity will implement the majority decision of the Storting, so that confidence in the organisations is restored. An important prerequisite for the work of voluntary organisations is internal autonomy. It is the members who shall determine the objectives of the organisations and how they shall work. This right of self-determination must never be disturbed by the fact that voluntary organisations receive State aid or are sponsored by private business. That is why I note two things with amazement. One is that the Minister of Culture does not want sport to have its own chapter in its cultural budget. Thus, Stortinget is denied the opportunity to have opinions on something as important as sports policy. At the same time, I have had the pleasure of reading the letter of assignment to the Norwegian Sports Association, and through it as well as through the press release that has come from the Department, the Department shows that they are very interested in earmarking the funds that go to the Norwegian Sports Association, i.e. a clear interference in what kind of goals sport should work with. I am aware that the balance between self-government in non-governmental organisations and the state's wish for what non-governmental organisations are going to do is hair-fine. That is why it is important that this debate comes out and up in the Grand Duchy, and does not take place in the closed rooms of the departments. Working with non-governmental organisations requires trust and shared goals. I also think that sport should be given that opportunity. My appeal to the Minister of Culture is that she immediately reintroduces the chapter on sport in the State budget. Actually, it doesn't keep up with a sports message. Although it will perpetuate the state's relationship to sport, an ongoing assessment of something as important as sport, which, after all, has 1.9 million members of the Norwegian population, which we, as big-time politicians, must also have the opportunity to do. I would also like to take this opportunity to remind you that the money from the Flax surplus will go both to sport and other culture, as well as to action on the ground floor. Another debate that has been held here by the representative of Aarrestad is the representative's fear that non-centralised organisations will not be able to obtain any support. I have to say that I have great faith that the municipalities also see that part of the volunteer work. And we must not forget in this debate that the municipalities have a great responsibility to capture non-governmental organisations with their appropriations, and it must not end even if the government gives funds to the voluntary organisations at local level.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e916	The Progress Party believes that an active and living society is a prerequisite for further development of society. Voluntary organisations are an important part of civil society. Through its wide diversity of activities, non-governmental organisations link people together in a meaningful community and complement public service provision in many areas. As democratic actors, organisations provide many training in decision-making processes. Through the diversity of the value base, they realise important societal values and contribute to the maintenance of moral standards and an active cultural life. Participation in voluntary organisations provides an opportunity to enhance skills and competences. Voluntary associations take their own initiatives and often cooperate with others, including: public authorities, often in order to achieve common objectives. By participating in the public task-solving process, they contribute to solving important welfare tasks. Closeness to the problems allows the principle of user management to design public welfare services that are in the best possible way in line with the needs of users. The degree of sense of responsibility in relation to the arrangements and services we jointly manage depends on their being arranged and functioning so that people know ownership of them. In recent years, there have been several large-scale notifications dealing with voluntary work and the involvement of non-governmental organisations. The fact that during five years, the Storting has been dealing with four major messages, where the topic of volunteering is affected in different ways, shows that this is an area where major changes are taking place in society. This is also evidence of a shift in responsibilities and tasks between public activities, private activities and non-governmental organisations. The fact that voluntary enterprises and non-governmental organisations are different and highly heterogeneous does not in any way make it easier to identify a general policy on the country’s relations with non-governmental organisations. At the same time as there has been a shift of responsibilities and tasks between the public and the voluntary, there has been a shift of responsibility from the state to the municipalities, especially in the light of changes in the municipal law. Locally, therefore, there is a need for a discussion of the relationship between the municipality and non-governmental organisations, a theme such as St.meld. No 27 for 1996-97 and St.meld. No 44 for 1997-98 concerns. In St.meld. No 27 voluntary work is grouped into three categories: member-based, value-based, profit-free well-being There are currently adjustments to the Lottery Act. Following the assessment of the Progress Party, it is necessary for the Storting to provide political signals governing new lotteries in the context of the processing of this Communication. It is an important point when the Government of St.meld No. 44 emphasises the need to facilitate better framework conditions for local teams so that more of the voluntary effort can be directed towards the organisation's primary activities and less towards income-creating work. When e.g. a sports team must spend more time on cake bazaars than on sports, something is fundamentally wrong in the eyes of the Progress Party. Today we experience, among other things. Norsk Tipping dominates the lottery market. Through Norwegian Tipping’s competitive advantage, the opportunities for non-governmental organisations are weakened both centrally and locally. It is important that the authorities take action to ensure that non-governmental organisations have sufficient framework conditions to operate income activities to ensure resources for their own activities. In the view of the Progress Party, it is necessary that non-governmental organisations should, above all, improve the framework conditions for the provision of free available funds not tied up in specific projects or activities. As part of the provision of these funds, it is important to allow organisations to operate, inter alia: lottery and automation activities, and that funds from them shall not be linked to any approved project or projects. The Progress Party notes that the Government proposes a new allocation model for the new aid scheme. According to the Progress Party, it has both weaknesses and, of course, also strength. The Progress Party sees the possibility that there may be different practices if the municipality/municipality is to be distributed, depending on where one lives. That chance won't take the Advance Party. The common objective of both the Government and the Advance Party must be to increase the activities of the organisations and possibly also in the local environment in general. The Progress Party is afraid of an increase in red tape as there will be more management. It will also, in the view of the Progress Party, break the trust and respect of the public and the organisations. It also needs to make it easier for non-governmental organisations to deal with public affairs. Today, they can receive support from different departments, and this is not clear. Here, coordination is needed to simplify this. Gambling revenues, small and large, have long been the main source of income for many teams and organisations. Here it has been a great virtue and winged.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e961	It was with pleasure and enthusiasm that I took up the work on the additional message for the volunteering message when I took over as the Council of State in the autumn of 1997. The reason for this is, of course, that I have the greatest respect for the non-governmental organisations, and will stress the importance of civil society and the so-called third sector. It is also true that there has been a broad dissension in political Norway about this effort, as expressed by the position of the NOU, i.e. the Corvald Committee, which was presented a few years ago. It was also a pleasure for me to see that the government of Jagland had submitted St.meld. No 27 for 1996-97, a report on the state's relationship with non-governmental organisations, on which the new government could build, because we fully agreed and saw the importance of the clarification of concepts in St.meld. No 27 for 1996-97. What we did from the new government was build on this and underline the importance of non-governmental organisations. We looked at the possibility of strengthening voluntary work by setting a better framework for the efforts of non-governmental organisations, in particular with a view to local membership-based activities for children and young people. We've been through questions about how we can support the voluntary work of children and young people in order to bring about diversity, in order to develop the significance of it, and do it so that we can use the forces of the work that local organisations are set to do, more than to collect money for the business itself. It's been the starting point. Then, in the coordination adopted here by the game, we have managed to get a lot of money that we thought we would use to strengthen the local, membership-based function of the volunteer organisations for children and young people. Then I had to ask myself the question: how can we create a new grant scheme, which is to be added to all the schemes and the possibility of support for the non-governmental organisations that we have today, which means that it reaches just those that were meant to reach, namely those at local level – organized youth and children up to 18 years of age? There are two channels to reach the target population. One is the existing organisational apparatus, that is, we transfer money to the central organisations and ask them to run the money down the system to local level. That's what the bulk of the population goes into today. We've thought a little differently from the government, and I'm asking that at least we don't get suspicious about the motives for doing it that way. We thought like this: Is it not better to see if we can drive the money directly into the local level, and then get the process up in the voluntary organisations, that is, strengthen diversity, strengthen the groupings, strengthen local, concrete work – focus on the local effect? That's the model we've presented. If you're going to take a parallel, which I think might slow down a little bit, but which has been an inspiration for me – if I get to say so – it's the use of the tipping agents, which is just distributed from the state to the states, and then the municipal applications come in to the counties, and the funds are distributed unbureaucratically and smoothly. This is a system that goes beyond the usual municipal budgets. That's the way we've been thinking about it. I have great confidence in the elected system, and it surprises me if the Storting doesn't have it too. I have thought this way: it is the local environment that has an overview of what is actually happening in the municipalities, and that can therefore simply set up a list that, in sum, constitutes the money that that municipality will receive, and then send the list to the county, which pays directly to local organisations and teams. That's the model. That's our vision. I note that there is no majority for this here, but at least I ask that we together, because we all want to strengthen the voluntary organisations, find out arrangements that will achieve the objective we agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e976	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e979	In St.meld. No 27 are very concerned with the independence of organisations, that the state should not interfere with what organisations do and what activities they carry out. The grant schemes shall be adapted to the specific nature of the voluntary activity and contribute to its strengthening. On page 2 of St.meld. No 44 says exactly this objective: ‘A central purpose of the notification is to create a more nuanced understanding of the nature of such a particular nature, so that state objectives, allocations and control procedures can be brought into as much conformity as possible with them.’ So not the opposite! In St.meld. No 44 you're also concerned with ensuring your peculiarity. However, when a new grant scheme is to be devised, this is toned down. Municipalities should prioritise and on a free basis – I assume – select the organisations they consider eligible for support. It opens up here, in my view, to two unfortunate conditions. Some organisations may be squandered because they do not fit into municipal policy, and local teams and associations can turn their activity into what they think politicians want, in order to get support, and thus disappear something of a peculiar nature. The basic activity may then be reduced in order to adapt the activities to the local eligibility criteria. I ask, doesn't the Council of State see that this will seem unfortunate, also in terms of maintaining the diversity of activities? How has that system been designed to ensure that it does not result?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e995	Let me stress that the goal is the same. We want to ensure diversity. We want to ensure the independence of organisations. In fact, I don't think the municipal system could affect the content of the organisations' activities. I don't think so. But it's possible that someone here has greater confidence that we can be centrally independent of the independence of the organisations when we donate money, while at the municipal level you will control this politically. I don't understand it a bit. I think local elected representatives will be just as concerned as we are that this is organisational autonomy that counts. Here you will give priority to activity in a wide range of ways. I see that this has been used by quite a number of people as an argument against this model. But I ask for an understanding that there is an appropriateness consideration on our part. I don't know how much money there will be, but it will probably be less than you want. But at least we want the money to be used right down at local level and thus create activity across a wide range of voluntary organisations, thus strengthening diversity. That's the purpose we've come up with. I'm recording the thinking expressed by the majority here today. And I'm a little incomprehensible that this elected body, as the Storting is, has no greater respect for the elected bodies that county and local government really are.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1005	I also think that the Council of State has intentions to achieve the active local volunteer. I don't think there's any doubt about that. But I think it's a little strange that the Central Party and the Council of State place such emphasis on this by taking care of the local level of activity, when we know at the same time – and also see in the comments from the Central Party – that they now want to tighten up on the market in which the volunteers pick up their funds. I'm thinking about slot machines, etc. Here, government parties are alerting further restrictions in terms of age limits, outsourcing, etc. Does not the Council of State fear that such a tightening will also affect the income opportunities of the voluntary teams and organisations and that they will thus become more dependent on public transfers in order to continue their activities? I also have a question about the games. We know that Norwegian Typing today has 6,715 million. kr in gambling income. That's numbers from 1997. Just to organize Norwegian Typing, 509 million will be used. kr. Doesn't the Council of State think that maybe you could follow Norwegian Typing a little bit with the argus eyes and see if we couldn't get more of the gambling revenue to transfer to voluntary teams and organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1014	First, I want to thank Per Sandberg for stressing and thinking that I actually want to support the active local volunteer. That's perfectly correct. I would like to emphasise once again that the new grant scheme we have proposed here should be added to the other transfer schemes we have to central organisations, and it should therefore not be provocative in any way. On the contrary, we should sit down and think about how we can get to systems that can be stimulating to everyone, and that is how quite a number of local teams and organisations have expressed a different view of this system than what the central organizations naturally have foreshadowed. Then the representative Sandberg raises questions related to the gaming market and to Norwegian Typing. When it comes to Norwegian Typing, I think it's very well-organized. Of course, we follow up on how the company is managed, and I am very pleased with Norwegian Typing. But the fact that we have now announced that we want a review of the gaming market in general, and then to get back to Stortinget, is because we're quite concerned about a part of what's happening. I think it's quite important to have a review and regulation of the gambling market, just to make sure that the funds come to the right address, that is to say, to the voluntary organisations and to research, culture and sport. This is the goal of gambling. The Right Party and the Advance Party once again promote proposals for BingoLotto. I think it could undermine the scheme we have to secure funds for research, sport and culture, as well as the system we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1025	A question of trust. Time and time again, the question of trust has been raised today without anyone having managed to get a clear answer. So now, when the Council of State answers, I would like to ask for a very clear answer: Does not the Council of State trust that non-governmental organisations themselves will be able to get these funds out to their local teams and organisations? The Council of State does not trust that, for example: LNU is also able to channel funds into local teams and non-centralised organisations. LNU’s sister organisation in Denmark has done this in an exemplary way. LNU in Norway has proved they can do it. Does the Council of State not, however, trust that they will be able to do so in the course of this process? As she says, it is clearly an overall goal that the funds should reach the local level, but the question is who should distribute the funds. We believe that the voluntary organizations are doing it by themselves, while we get very unclear signals about who the government parties really want to reach with these means. It seems a little disturbing to me when, for example. The representative, Aarrestad, speaks of the fact that at local level they would like to use these means to inspire and initiate the formation of new organisations. Are these funds to go to those already organised and do not the Council of State trust that they will be able to take care of the interests of their own local members?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1036	I think that Unn Aarrestad was in for a very central point. As I understood it, this was not about the funds going to unorganized youth, because it is clearly stated that they should go to membership-based activities, but that this can stimulate more membership organisations. There can hardly be any doubt that you can find schemes based on local knowledge, which are based on the proximity that we would get if we chose the transfer model on which the government parties and government are betting. Otherwise, the question of trust is central here," says Inger Stolt-Nielsen, and the question is, does the Council of State not trust that the funds will reach the organisations' local teams and associations? Well, I hope we're going to make a deal, because I'm recording what there is a majority for here. I now want to bring back the setting and the recordings in the debate, and see how we are going to organise this. In fact, I think the scheme we are presenting is a better and simpler system that is absolutely based on trust in the organisations, but instead of giving money to the top of the organizations to channel them downwards in the pyramid, you choose to put the money in the bottom and then get the activity from the bottom up in the organization. I think it's a better model, and I stress that it comes in addition to the transfer arrangements that we have to the central volunteer organizations. I am also pleased that Stolt-Nielsen underlined that we have an overall objective that the funds should reach the local level, and at least it is important to stick to this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1045	The Council of State underlined that she had the possibility of two models for the allocation to voluntary organisations, either the municipality model or the organisational model, and of appropriateness, the Council of State chose the municipal model. In a letter dated 17 February 1999, the Council of State wrote: ‘It is less likely that a distribution through the organisation’s central level can take account of local integrity to the same extent as a local municipal assessment.’ Such an opinion is, in my opinion and as I read it, a distrust that the central organisations can maintain a holistic view. The Council of State continues to say that it will be difficult to establish appropriate award criteria and control procedures. Now the voluntary organizations say that the control procedures have to be the same, the award criterion is a political issue, and if the Council of State needs help, we might be able to help her with that. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State now see the same difficulties as she saw when she wrote this letter, or does she understand that the majority of the population chooses a different model, not only for reasons of appropriateness, but also in confidence that the central organizations can maintain an overall view, and have actually done so? Another question is, how does she view local authorities' opportunities for inspiration, and the obligation to inspire all non-governmental organisations? [[President clubs]] Is it just the Council of State to have a voluntary policy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1061	The President will comment that the speaking time is 2 minutes, and will ask for it to be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1064	I like it to be quoted from my letter to the committee, where I have pointed out that I think the municipal model that we have chosen is better suited to the overall need than a model where you have to channel the money through central organisations. I really think that's a pretty good point, simply because the central organisational image is different from the organizational image you find in the different municipalities. That's why I think it's right, as someone here has pointed out, that the model that we're proposing could lead to inequalities, but there's no point that everything should be equal. We believe that it should evolve from local conditions, and that it is those who are closest to the local level, who know best how this can happen, and who get the whole thing out. Just the point for the whole thing at the local level, I actually think the municipal model can best be taken care of. I have, as I said, recorded that there is a majority for a different model than I want, and that here I am offered help in finding out about award criteria and control procedures. It is clear that, after this debate, we will have to come back with a concrete outline of how this can be continued from the point of view of the great majority. Of course, I'm going to do everything I can to create a model that takes care of what I see as everyone's desire, namely to strengthen the voluntary organisations, especially the member-based function at local level, and to develop from their own understanding and their own peculiarity. Organisations represent a very, very important part of the development of a democratic society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1071	It was the Council of State's response – and lack of response – to my previous line, which led me to take the floor again. The council said that if the organizations themselves got a game, that is BingoLotto, it would undermine the review that the government has of the gaming market. At the same time, the Government itself introduces state games, player cards and Super Chance, additional state games to vacuum the gaming market, so that the voluntary organisations cannot earn their own income. My question was: does the Council of State fear that the current tightening will result in less revenue for voluntary teams and organisations? It is then interesting to look at what the Norwegian Liaison Committee for Automatic Humanitarian Operations says about the proposals for consultation. If the proposals are implemented, this sample says that the outcome over the period 1998-2000 could be 300 million. kr less in the income of voluntary teams and organisations. And when we know that the entire profits from the gambling market go to voluntary teams and organisations, does the Council of State not see the danger that there may be less money for voluntary teams and organisations? Then to BingoLotto. Has the State Council considered the positive outcome and the positive effects of BingoLotto on voluntary team and organisational life in Sweden, where BingoLotto has been introduced? There is evidence that the voluntary teams and organisations now have a share of the gambling market and are able to generate income for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1080	The Lottery Act is under the Ministry of Justice, and we have a close cooperation to review the gambling market and present a case to the Stortinget about it. We have gone against BingoLotto because we believe it could lead to less revenues for non-governmental organisations, to culture, research and sport. I can go into the concept of BingoLotto, but I don't think I'm going to use this reply, because this is something that we're going to get back to in connection with the matter that's announced. Our intention is to get as much money as possible for the good purposes to be given, according to the law, to the means of sport, culture and research. And even though I don't like games so well, to say it like that, I admit that the games are an essential part of the financing of this important work. I am therefore going to contribute what I can to facilitate that we get the best possible money distributed to what we now all agree to strengthen, namely the voluntary organisations. I would like to say – for this is my last line – that in terms of the money that we receive and that goes to non-governmental organisations, but that is probably too small in relation to the needs that exist, we have recorded that we get a lot of money back for every penny that is inserted. And it is a recognition and respect for the efforts of non-governmental organisations that we also want to strengthen their work through better framework conditions and through the new grant scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1089	Then the line change is changed, as the state councils call it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1092	A majority of the Committee on Culture and the European Parliament opposes the Government's proposal to allocate the new funds to voluntary organisations. There is nothing new and revolutionary about the voluntary organisations allocating government appropriations to their local branches. It has the tradition and great competence of these organisations to cope in an excellent way, without increasing administrative expenditure. Unfortunately, there is a tendency for some municipalities to cut their budgets because of these ‘fresh’ money to voluntary organisations. The last example was the school corps in Bergen, who judged to boycott May 17th because Bergen's rapporteur had proposed to cut off the subsidies from the municipality to the corps. Some municipalities will also have problems. Due to a small number of employees in the cultural sector, the job of sorting and prioritizing the state funds may be too large – they simply do not have the capacity to do such a job for the state. The government is in favour of a very bureaucratic distribution model, which probably some small municipalities do not have the opportunity to implement without increasing staffing. It is highly rationalised in many small municipalities. Government parties, especially the Left, have said loud and clear that they want to reduce bureaucracy, form fields, reporting and control in central government. The results are small, or maybe completely absent, so far. It says in the newspaper Varden 16 April this year: ‘Many parents will engage in sport but not in sitting and filling out forms.’ The distribution of Flax funds can easily lead to further red tape if it is to be done via county municipalities, municipalities and associations and the same long, heavy road back through reporting, control procedures and all stages of the allocation of funds. This, of course, means increased bureaucracy, increased control and increased costs at the expense of the free position of voluntary organisations in Norway. We have to trust that the voluntary organisations themselves can manage this distribution of government funds via their network of member registers and their overviews of local organisations. The nationwide voluntary organisations enjoy great respect elsewhere in the country for the distribution of government funds to local teams and associations, and they do so in a fair manner. It is suggested that the voluntary organizations only want to increase their own power, and there are so many suspicions of their democratic attitudes. Fortunately, this position is not general to the various political parties. Norwegian children’s and young people’s organisations are democratic and absolutely capable of distributing these additional state funds in a good way, without spending too much on administration. The government's proposal to manage, control, report and allocate these funds to both state, state and local authorities is likely to result in fewer crowns reaching local associations. That was not the intention of the conversion, nor should the State override the voluntary organisations. The local teams themselves control their umbrella organisations through annual meetings and national meetings, and this should continue to be the case. Voluntary organisations maintain their current confidence in allocating government funds to their local teams and associations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1124	This is a day of joy for voluntary organisations in Norway. It's an overall committee that says they're going to ring the bells about voluntary organization. I'm very happy about that. The Christian People's Party has fought throughout all years to ensure that voluntary organisations have the best possible conditions. That is why we are particularly pleased today that there is a greater consensus than ever that this is desirable and necessary. We want to stimulate wholeness and diversity in local and autonomous organisational life. Organisational life is a very important actor in a living democracy. Unfortunately, too many of us have to admit that we understand the fear of doing so too well. We live with a constant time pressure, where the hard work of the school corps is only one of several tasks that parents are expected to solve in leisure time. Most of us would like to join, but unfortunately we have to admit that we don't reach everything. A situation report in the Evening Post On 10 May clearly illustrates the dilemma we face: 'Since 1983, the number of members of the Oslo Corps has been reduced by 23 per cent. In the same period, 12 corps have been decommissioned.» It's nothing new that the corps movement is experiencing fluctuations in the mass of members, but it's never been as bad as it is now. There are certainly many different reasons why young people choose activities other than to play in the Corps. The claim of the evening post that the reason for the members ’ disappearing along with the music is the influence of their parents. The parents are unable to work hard. This phenomenon itself can be said a lot about it. The evening post concludes that a change of attitude is needed in the parents’ mind in order not to exterminate the body movement. You can't disagree with that. I guess we all think that the school corps play an important role. This example from the evening post yesterday leads me right into today's debate. There are limits to how much effort, cake making and lottery sales each can do, said Minister of Culture Anne Enger Lahnstein when she presented the Government's proposal to ensure voluntary organisations better framework conditions. The money must create activity on the grassroots, especially for children and young people, the Council of State then struck firmly. Unfortunately, the issue of channelling has received almost all the attention in the debate on the so-called voluntary communication. Most existing support schemes to non-governmental organisations provide support to the central organisations and there are usually no specific requirements for transfers to the layer level. The Christian People's Party has good knowledge, great respect for and great confidence in the volunteer organizations. Some claim that it is an expression of distrust that one does not want to channel funds through the central organisations. But there can be no distrust when the whole main intention is to strengthen voluntary teams and organisations. If we had mistrusted, how could it be connected that we really wanted a strong strengthening of voluntary teams and organisations. This claim of central-level mistrust falls on its own unfairness. I am rather surprised at the Workers' Party, which seems to have great distrust of the municipalities in terms of channelling these funds. The aim has always been to strengthen member-based work in non-governmental organisations and to provide new money in addition to existing grant schemes for voluntary activities. I still believe that the government's publishing house, which unfortunately did not get a majority, does more than any other arrangement, preserve the whole and diversity of local organisational life. Local organisations not associated with national superstructures are in a grey zone. Some local organisations cannot or will not join, or form, new central organisations in order to receive state support. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, a state support scheme aimed at strengthening the activity of local non-governmental organisations must also include local organisations not linked to national superstructures. The aid scheme should not contribute to the further centralisation of organisational life. The system that has now been given a majority in the committee is important for further work, even though I regret that we did not get a majority in the government's order. It is important that we continue our work so that the small and unorganised people of traditional importance, who are involved in maintaining the diversity of our communities, do not succumb to the cataclysms and virtues. Let's also hope that parents don't lose heart in flea market and hard work. There's a lot of positive in that kind of adult exposure, there can just be a little bit of it sometimes. The government's supplementary message was an attempt to stimulate increased local public engagement, with a slightly less need for cacolottery. In this way, the central government is helping to increase the funding of local teams and organisations. Now, together, we need to ensure that the system of majority voting will give the most positive count for local child labour and youth work. I am aware that the speaking time is up, but can I get a clarification in the setting?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1155	Yes, with the goodwill of the President, the representative must be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1158	On page 22 of the configuration, at the bottom of the second column, a special comment from the Progress Party beginning on page 23, first column and downwards. The comments of the Progress Party say, ‘These members believe that this will contribute to less red tape and joint solutions across’ – and this has been stated: ‘The Committee further believes that this will counteract any trend...’. We haven't followed it well enough in an hour. Instead, it should have read ‘these members’ before the ‘committee’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1163	It's important to follow in the class, my president.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1166	First a little clarification in relation to the Mucky Grimstad's posts. It is not a distrust of the municipalities of the Workers' Party, but a fear that the municipalities will cut off the grants to the voluntary organisations as they benefit from the Flax funds. For this reason, inter alia: this reaction. That's not what I was going to bring up. What I am concerned about is that it is important that we continue the debate on the so-called red tape in the voluntary organisations. In the last period, we had a debate on this in relation to the support to the youth organisations, which was a very difficult matter. I am willing to admit that it is difficult to find a balance between having proper control of the funds and not killing all the activity in the organisations with a lot of forms and rules. It is a dilemma that politicians still face when we discuss these things. First of all, we need rules and systems that make us not stop initiative and creativity in the organisations. A small example of this: the Norwegian Volleyball Federation has a project they call Vel-Volley. In this, there are opportunities to apply for equipment packages and creativity funds, as they call it. The application form consists of brief and easily understandable questions such as: Who is applying? Collaborative partner? What are you going to do? Moments such as idea, responsibilities, implementation time, costs, etc. And finally, why is the measure so good? It's a form that suits people who are not bureaucrats either by experience or by nature — i.e. youth. The art is to get a report that does not kill the desire to apply for such things. There is something we should still be concerned about, not just every time we process messages. Every time we get things like this, we should take a review. I believe that both the Department, the Government and we here at the Stortinget, as I said, should be concerned about that. Why are voluntary organisations so important to children and young people? Why can't you pay people to take care of the activation of children and young people? I would like to say that two words describe why – influence or co-determination and responsibility. As a member of a voluntary organisation, there is an opportunity to exercise influence over how the organisation is to operate, and not least what offers it is to make. In addition, there is a responsibility for the organisation, which most people actually appreciate, including children and young people. Democracy is a crossroads, and it teaches a few places other than in the voluntary organizations. There are a lot of examples of these and of young people's involvement. A few years ago, I was conducting the national meeting of the Prefecture. They have in their statutes that 25 pst. by the delegates shall be a child. There must also be four conductors, two adults and two young people. I'm going to promise that for us who were conductors, it was a bit of a challenge to get the kids to understand this with meeting rules, while at the same time being committed to the matter. It was a big challenge. In addition, the national meeting had to take such a form that it was a national meeting that took legal decisions, while the meeting should not become too boring, so that the children were not involved. What about when the pulpit got too scary? It's scary enough for us adults. Then the kids did it okay enough: they went up two and two, held each other's hands and had a small voice choir. Or, when the meeting was too boring, it was possible to interrupt it with a little song play. Now it's hard here in the Storting, but in other contexts it's possible. So we have a lot to pick up when we use kids actively and let them get influence and co-determination. Finally, why should the government go in with funds for voluntary work, ask someone? The main reason is that organisations should have a basis for their activities and not use all thepowers to obtain money instead of operating. Social accounts have become a new concept of voluntary organisations. The first time I met this word was during a visit to Hamar in the previous period when I sat in the committee that is now dealing with this matter. In Hamar, the ice hockey club had drawn up a community account with respect to the municipality, where it actually turned out that in terms of effort, in terms of action, in the form of engaging young people who had problems, in terms of taxes and taxes, it paid back to the municipality much more than they received in support. And it's a cross of thought for us politicians, not only at the big level, but also in counties and municipalities, that what these organizations provide is more than what they get from us.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1185	Much has been said in the debate already, and I will try to underline some points in my post. Voluntary efforts in Norway are enormous – we all agree on that. The work that is done has great value, and the volunteer organizations are one of the pillars of our democracy. This is also clearly underlined by the Government in the additional message it has received. The problem is just as full that when it comes to the problem, the government lacks confidence in the voluntary organisations, and especially the central links. I will not go so much further into that debate – it has been quite well explained – but when the Minister of Culture now presents it as if the money were to be sent to the counties and distributed something like the tippers, it is in a way a new information for me. It seems that the Minister of Culture in his contribution produced it as if the money were almost to be distributed according to some key that meant that the municipalities would not interfere specifically with the way the distribution was done. It was an interesting information to come on the day of the debate. But at least I'm glad that the bulk of the population has taken the organizations seriously, that we actually believe, have confidence, what they say, when we talk about the distribution of the funds the Storting is now discussing. I also believe that the internal democracy of the organisations has such strength that the organisations will ensure that the funds are distributed in the manner foreseen. This approach is clear in its view that the new funds now allocated to voluntary Norway are intended as additional funds to heavily pressed non-governmental organisations. It is therefore important to stress that the increased aid is not intended to replace municipal and county involvement. We also trust that municipalities and counties will continue to be closely involved in the voluntary work in Norway. The allocation of funds through the central stages of organisations helps to underline that the municipal level continues to have equal responsibility for stimulating and supporting voluntary teams and organisations, and not least what more from the government parties have been involved in, namely those who are unorganised or who organise themselves in their own communities. This is the responsibility of the municipality and the county. Why do I underline this so strongly? Yes, I am constantly getting a signal that municipalities and counties are proposing cutbacks in support of voluntary teams and organisations, with reference to the fact that new, fresh funds are coming in as a result of the position we are now discussing. This is a signal that needs to be taken seriously; the intention was not to reduce municipal involvement, but to strengthen efforts against the voluntary teams and organisations. Voluntary organisations are increasingly commended for the support of public authorities. There are many reasons for this. One of the main reasons is that the state has taken over and almost monopolised large parts of its revenue base. The strong involvement of the state in the gambling market obviously reduces the income base of non-governmental organisations. It is serious when popular, uncontroversial sources of income end up at the hands of the state, while organisations and volunteering are left with machines and game forms that create debate on gambling addiction. We therefore reiterate our demand that non-governmental organisations should be able to start lottery activities like BingoLotto or the like. The state must not become a monopolistic in the case of large, popular gambling. I have just attended the sports event in Ålesund, which was opened with greetings from the Minister of Culture, the county rapporteur, the rapporteur – and Norsk Typing AS. As far as I know, it's the Minister of Culture who's the Norwegian Tipping General Assembly, and I think she could have done it in a good way, but it says a little bit about the relationship Norsk Tipping has gotten to the sport. Norwegian Typing is kind of seen as the benefactor of sport. But what Norwegian Tipping is is a large collection fund for government money through gambling. I have to say that it didn't surprise me, but it gave me a reason why Norsk Tipping was playing the role. I don't think it's healthy that Norwegian Typing is the only charity for Organisation Norway. I actually think we have to open up a little bit and let the organizations themselves have the opportunity to develop games. Then there's a point I'm glad that the government parties are involved, namely looking at the possibility of deductibility for gifts and contributions to non-governmental organisations. Such a right of deduction will be important in order to safeguard the economy of organisations and will also reduce their dependence on public support. Such a scheme will provide organisations with substantial funds, usually funds which are not taxed otherwise, because they can be tricked away in an accounting. People's willingness to pay rises considerably at the moment they themselves decide what the money should be used for. I hope that we will continue to work on developing that system, and that it will be put in place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1204	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1207	This matter is not about respect or lack of such respect for local authorities and others. It is not about a lack of trust in the municipalities either. As rapporteur for many, many years, I can assure you that I would be the last to support another system if distrust were the basis. In fact, there is disagreement about the practical implementation of a grant scheme – that is what it boils down to, and that is the reality of the matter. I know that the Minister of Culture is very concerned about the growing-up environment, and so are we in the Workers' Party. Here the voluntary organisations have a crucial role to play. Therefore, the new grant scheme, regardless of how it is distributed, is important and forward-looking. And at the heart of the growth environment must be the work to combat violence, drug abuse and racism. It is one of our most important challenges, and in my view, it will be absolutely crucial for what kind of society we will have in the future. I have a specific question for the Council of State. In point 3.5 Other measures, the Ministry refers to the Development Programme for the Strengthening of the Growth Environment and refers to the possibility of local cooperation in this area. But the post was cut by the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party – i.e. the bulk of the population – with 3.9 million. kr at the last budgetary procedure. There's only $100,000 left. As we know, the Workers' Party went against the cut and proposed maintenance. Can the Council of State now guarantee that the funds will be additional, as promised by the Government, and can she say something about when it might happen? It's about trustworthiness. And let me say that I was disappointed – this was the first thing I saw after the revised national budget was presented, and there it was not corrected. Otherwise, the Council of State finally mentioned that she would come back to the Stortinge with proposals for a distribution solution. I hope I heard the error, because it may not be necessary for the Stortinget to discuss this matter again. It may not be necessary for the Storting to discuss the details of the implementation of this scheme. In my view, the government gets the powers it needs to work on the matter. Finally, a short line to Greece, which earlier today gave me a visit, on the right of deduction for a trade union quota. It may not be difficult to see that a cost of acquisition of income is, to the greatest degree, in contrast to gifts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1220	I would like to repeat a few words on the proposal of the Progress Party on a coordinating body. Various representatives have been up to the pulpit and said that this is a kind of detail regulation, governance of the Government, etc. To clarify this, I would like to refer to the proposal as it exists: ‘The Government requests the setting up of a coordinating body composed of the ministries and elected representatives of the voluntary organisations. The body is set down for two years and is mandated to evaluate the relationship of the State with the voluntary organisations in the St. ermeld. [[1996-97]] No 27 and St. Report. [[1997-98]] No 44 I can't see that there's any kind of control or detailed regulation in such a proposal. Here we just want the Stortinge to delegate to the ministry to set up a sample to look at the development in relation to the appropriations for voluntary teams and organisations. I don't think we're done with this state relationship to non-governmental organizations, I think we'll definitely get back to it. And then it might be interesting that there had been a dialogue between the departments and the organizations, when we get back to it. I would also like to associate a few words with the principle view of the distribution of the funds of the Advance Party. The Progress Party wants primarily to use all the surplus from the funds for voluntary teams and organisations. Today this is distributed between sport, culture and research. This means that, in fact, the Progress Party wants to spend SEK 2.1 billion on volunteer teams and organisations, which also include culture, but that means, of course, that we have to find funding for the research part. In the end – I did not do it in my main post – I just want to address the suggestions that have been made in the vote and that the Progress Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1234	The representative Per Sandberg then drew up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1237	Such debates are often influenced by what you disagree with, and so is this. The debate has focused on which distribution channel is most suitable for providing public support to the organisation. I think we should agree that both channels that have been launched are usable. The core members of the organisations receive large sums each year for centralisation, which is why there is a slight difference in the way we have talked about these funds today. In the case of these funds, they shall not be mixed with the other means of support and shall not disappear. Therefore, there is reason for concern that it will not be easy now to maintain these funds, not to say the level of them. They must be re-assigned every year. The theme of voluntary organisations is not just about how to distribute financial support; it is about a lot of other things. As the Storing Message shows, the Government is continuously working with measures to improve the organisation's framework conditions. It includes everything from regulating the gambling and lottery market to tax exemptions for gifts to organisations and better coordination of the criteria for the various support schemes. Organisational life represents a rich diversity of purposes and working methods. It is important that public support schemes capture this diversity. There are organisations that do not currently receive support at all or little support. The criteria for allocation must therefore not be streamlined more than capturing differences in purpose, organisational structure or working method. The aim is to find the most accurate mechanisms that capture this diversity and at the same time maintain the necessary control of the use of funds. An objective of the support schemes must also be to stimulate organisations to raise their own revenues and to discourage their becoming too dependent on public budgets. The processing of the two size messages is just one of several steps towards better conditions for organisations. This is done in the sense that society — locally and centrally — needs voluntary organisations. The third sector is such a valuable part of society that we can't afford to lose it. The organizations provide our community with other dimensions – call them spiritual, non-material, or valuable – precisely at a time when the material values so much characterize our lives. I also think that this argument belongs to and should be mentioned. Non-governmental organisations and their work are of invaluable importance in this context as well. The Christian People's Party will support all measures that can contribute to the involvement of voluntary organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1251	I got a question from the representative, Mr. Breimo, and I will at least try to comment on it. The question was linked to St.meld. No 44, 3.5 Other measures. It says about the Development Programme for the Strengthening of the Growth Environment, which was cut off in the current year's budget. So there is an allocation that has gone over the budget of the Ministry of Children and the Family, and we have promised to come back to it once we have dealt with the coordination – which has been discussed – and this additional communication today. This is one of the points that I have to look at, after I now record that there is no majority for the model that we have presented. Coordination means that there will be a third share of the use of funds, namely for culture, sport and research. And the money to go to this volunteering is related to sport and culture. I think that if we had got a system that had gone after the municipal model, it would have been easier to accept a greater degree of latitude in the use of funds. Because I believe that in a letter from me – which I tried to find – it is pointed out that the support to the organisations must go through the departments responsible for the organisation today. The Ministry of Culture may not assume responsibility for organisations previously located — and now located — in other departments. This is a system that is therefore in the Ministry of Children and Family, and that is why I have to go back and look at the consequences of the decision that the Stortinget makes today on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1264	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3223]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1279	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Twist Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of changing lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1290	The whole educational community has been through extensive reforms over the last ten years, from kindergarten to university. The reasons for the educational reforms are obvious. The reforms we have implemented have been necessary both to create greater equality and to ensure that Norway is in close proximity as a knowledge nation. At the same time, important reforms will always lead to transition problems and challenges. But if you were to wait until absolutely all the ideal demands were met before implementing a reform, we hardly got any reforms. New 10 years of emphasis on education are now on the agenda of the Workers' Party, where we will facilitate new and forward-looking actions for the benefit of children, young people and adults in a globalised and digitised everyday life. It's no small task when we at the same time include an indispensable requirement that in our after-multicultural societies, the primary school should be an inclusive school, where children are taken seriously and are themselves active co-workers through their own participation. Because while we are on the net having the cruel assaults against innocent people in the heart of Europe, there also seems to be cleansing in Norway because of differences, last in a small town in western Norway. We should then have the courage to settle with our own way of thinking. What makes statements and actions not stopped, that they are not built up enough corrective in the family, in the community and in our big society? I believe the school laws need to be reviewed in order to integrate the human rights issue from the earliest class steps. Therefore, the Minister of Education is in a special position to do something active in addition to awareness campaigns. Values and attitudes are demanding in a highly person-dependent organisation such as the school, where there is always a risk of downgrading and infringing. It is uplifting that children and young people themselves put work against all forms of discrimination and racism at the top of their priorities. Children and young people will mobilise and take responsibility, and we know from various studies that student participation is the best guarantee of inclusion, and that the problems of bullying can only be solved by turning efforts towards a better community where all groups participate and are respected. So I expect the Council of State will come back to how he will follow up, among other things. the initiative taken by Sylvia Brustad in her time in the ‘We care’ campaign. We believe that it is now important to focus on youth, and our proposals will focus on greater freedom of choice, more interdisciplinaryity, more group work and project work, and on providing existing attempts at freedom of character. When State Secretary Totland presented St. reported. No 28 for 1998-99 Towards richer goals, more than suggested that the equality ideal was too far ahead. Our answer is that it is not. Education is important to build the individual's self-respect and make the students feel within society. But equality is at the same time a complicated goal. It cannot be achieved alone through organisational and structural reforms. It must be done and worked for in the day-to-day work of the school. We've now received an educational community. Much indicates that the society of the future is increasingly becoming an educational community. Therefore, the Workers' Party cannot, as Christian Party Party leaders advocated at the Christian People's Party's National Meeting, go in for a reform break in school. In the future, our society will be characterized, not by stamina, but by the opposite. Education plays a major role in the distribution of different goods — greater role with increasing age — and has increased more than decreased in importance in recent years. We have to go inward that when we talk about school, we're actually talking about a 13-year-old school, where everyone goes – most people go there. Instead of emphasising everything to be controlled in school, we need to put the emphasis on the learning process itself – learn to learn – and ensure that a school where one goes for so long also has a flexible pattern. The 17 pst. by the secondary school, which either does not exercise its right or falls out of the way, shows that the requirements of the school course have to be resolved. Fortunately, no one disagrees that school life needs to be more closely linked to practice, by involving local conditions, organisations and enterprises as an integral part of the overall educational system that makes the school more meaningful. State Council Lilletun has repeatedly stressed that existing school laws provide for such practical training. That is why he has not proposed any changes to the existing legislation. But it's not for free. It may be that the curricula do not have to be regulated, but this is the Council of State table – he can change it if he wants it. It will help to solve more of the obligating nature of curricula, as adapted training is the guiding element. Our proposals are in addition: more general research-based experimental activities should be stimulated at school, and, not least, the present forms of mathematics education should now be reviewed, critically assessed, together with improving the training of teachers. We also believe that the time is right, when we see how difficult it is to get school leaders to put their faith in the great, strong schoolleader, who will primarily represent the employer in everyday school life. I think it has created an impossible leadership role in school, which soon nobody wants. A more collective leadership with the allocation of tasks should be developed. However, if the single school is to be ensured, local self-government cannot always be an overall goal. Designation of funds is in reality a flexible and effective instrument if central school policy has specific tasks to carry out. If the Government does not want to use earmarked funds, as could be indicated by the Council of State of Enoxens, a higher degree of minimum standards must be set with clearly defined sanctions against those who do not follow up in the municipalities. In higher education, it is not that our country's capacity is too large, as indicated in the Government's Communication on the future dimensioning of higher education. Calculations that say something else are of the type that have regularly failed. The increase in education should guide capacity development far on the road. The entry criteria for higher education need to be softened, and formal pre-education requirements for education should be omitted – this is because we can already understand that the typical student of the future is a part-time student. The conditions for part-time students at the institutions must also be improved. The provision of adult training at educational institutions needs to be substantially expanded and planned and organised in a systematic manner. This will include, inter alia: demand a heavy effort in the field of distance learning, where we challenge the Government in terms of both high-speed networks as a social responsibility, infrastructure when connecting to relevant partners, electronic classrooms and school television in a new form. This enables individuals to get their training locally anywhere in our country, and it will strengthen us in the increasingly aggressive international competition, especially in higher education. In addition, cooperation channels between the research world and the rest of society need to be improved – we have also debated this in the UK in the past. I have so far not mentioned the educational policy presentation of the Council of State. It was vague and non-obligatory, little forward-looking – which is natural when other tasks are given a higher priority. The only concrete thing in the statement is that the government assesses a transfer of negotiating responsibility for teachers to the municipalities. This was not a problem for the Council of State, and there was no concrete incentive for him to take it up. Therefore, we must take the Government seriously when he takes that initiative. Earlier in this Chamber, the Progress Party and the Right have opted for such a transfer, and that means that there will then be a majority for such a transfer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1322	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1325	The representative Knudsen was about a very important topic in his speech that is just going on bullying and all the unfortunate things we've seen in connection with the bullying. I would like to ask her about how she views the conflict councils that are established in very many municipalities, where the students themselves deal with the adult role in the conflict situation, and where an elite is actually created among the students in relation to the other students. Does she see this as lucky and trouble-solving in the long term? Shouldn't the school's adult teachers and others be the first and best to deal with the conflict-free adult role, and not assign this responsibility to the individual child? Then she was involved in local self-government, which our government council very often comes upon in a little kinky questions. But I didn't get any clarity as to what she wanted instead, whether it was a centralized school or a user-controlled school after centrally determined overall goals. These are important moments for the Advance Party, and I would like her to clarify this a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1334	As has been seen in the hearings that have been held with young people in many parts of the country recently, and also in the reports to the Children’s Ombudsman and others who work closely with children, children and young people are very high on bullying and racism. The studies also show that without the participation of children and young people, there will be no way to address the major challenges. Children and young people need to have attitudes integrated into their own way of being. The conflict councils I know have been positive in that children have gone in and taken responsibility, also to solve their own problems. But at the same time, I think it's much more important to take children seriously in the school situation and go through all of our school laws in terms of student participation, to see how we can make their participation more real than it is today. Most of the children experience that the school may still be living in the Stone Age, and that the students are actually not being taken seriously. When it comes to decentralization and how far you can go in letting the individual school and individual class govern themselves, there are also some limits if you want to have an equivalent school offer at the same time. That's why some cleanups have to take place. If you transfer more to the individual school, you also need to have minimum standards from the central school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1343	The representative Knudsen characterised the presentation of the Council of State as vague. It is a characteristic that I as a Christian People's Party representative do not share. I think it is very positive that the statement is permeated by a government's desire to create dialogue, cooperation and participation in the local arena. Repeatedly, the government wants dialogue, both with school owners and with employees. It wants to discuss central regulation versus local governance. It wants to soften national legislation, if there are good reasons. The report cites, inter alia: from a chronicle in the evening post, where the teacher Lasse Trädal characterizes today's teacher as follows: ‘We forget – or dare not – our own experiences.’ And the Council of State asks: ‘Do you think that we have not underestimated the dialogue with the everyday teacher in the reformer earlier in the 1990s?’ Only in the 1990s did I work in the school administration of a municipality, and many of us just experienced that our experiences were not taken seriously. Therefore, I am delighted – very happy – that the Government so strongly underlines the will for dialogue and local space and creativity. It will give many teachers new faith in their own opportunities, and will allow them to test new learning methods and other forms of organisation, such as: emphasising entrepreneurship and other methods that focus on motivation for lifelong learning. We don't want a local reform break from central to local arenas, and whether her party will encourage greater local diversity. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1364	The President will ask for respect for the speaking time, which in the change of line is 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1367	The answer to that question is yes. We will be most committed to facilitating more locally adapted training methods, project work, group work, etc. It allows the school laws for today. The Council of State has at no time proposed the transposition of existing legislation. What we're going to do to meet the Council of States are recommendations about what he can actually do himself, to make the curricula more flexible. A part of what is laid down in regulations today – which is the Council of State’s own table – he can do something about when he receives such messages. What we mean when we say that the statement is non-committal is that all the good wishes that the Council of State brings here also cost money. He can't count on the teachers per. Today, only more and more tasks will be assigned, and expect all of this to be done within the existing financial framework. It is in this area that it becomes difficult for the Council of State, as the Government has put the emphasis on completely different and individual transfers rather than on the development of the Community school — which is also not free of charge.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1374	I listened with interest to the first part of Knudsen's posts on the school's attitude-creating function, and have no problem joining me in what she said in that context. I really just missed one moment, the role of parents in that picture, the need to find ways to strengthen cooperation between parents, students and schools. Equality is a complicated objective, said the representative Knudsen. I fundamentally disagree with that. Equality is the simplest of all possible goals. But that's a rather problematic goal, especially if you were to succeed in realizing it. The problems we face in today's Norwegian education system are probably linked to a rather long-term overdose of belief in the fact that equality is a blessed goal. In most cases it isn't. Many of the problems we see today, both in high school and in secondary education, and to which we come back in the evaluation of reform 94, are closely linked to the belief that a centralised system can create equality. I perceive the presentation of the Council of State so that he believes that the time has come to adjust the educational policy objectives precisely towards diversity – much more diversity. I feel that the Workers' Party, as it was targeted by the representative Knudsen, has some problems in finding out how to place oneself in relation to such a goal. That's why I want to interplate a little bit more about the belief in minimum standards, because, in my opinion, it's just trying the same medicine that's been used so far, with bad luck.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1383	I would, like the representative, like to stress the importance of parents in school, and the importance of facilitating their participation in the bodies they have set up for this, and, of course, improving the ability of each parent to engage in dialogue with the school for his child. The criticism of the Labour Party's school and education policy from the Right has always been the same. Often it has also been very hair-riding in its simplification of very complicated conditions. The fact that we've been working on the equality goal all along is not an argument to give it up. It is also important to work towards less social distinctions – that everyone, regardless of background, should have the same opportunity. We're not talking about making everyone equal, we're talking about giving them the same opportunity. Differences should also be respected. But then you have to have some overall goals at the same time. What is the big challenge for the Council of State, when he now talks hot for each school to have more autonomy, is that he should take care of the school of unity and equivalence. Then the question becomes to the Council of State: how is he going to do it? We believe that, for example, earmarked funds in some areas have served their purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1391	Replicate cord shift.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1394	‘We have a great deal to be pleased about in Norwegian education!’ said the Council of State optimistically in its educational policy statement. It is good that Lilletun is an incorrigible optimist. It may be necessary, when we know that very many children and young people are not doing so well in the Norwegian educational everyday life. Children are bullied by fellow students and teachers; parents are not allowed to care for their children’s need for safety and predictability. This is to neglect parental responsibility in relation to your own children. The OECD reports already stated ten years ago that the Norwegian school is not so advanced and good that we should expect to be close to an international elite level — which seems to be a goal for the Government. But one thing in the introduction he is undoubtedly right in — education policy cannot be static. What dynamic development should characterize it, we have not seen so much in the messages that have come so far, as these have been largely influenced by the evaluation of the current situation – which is good – and the solution models that have been partly unclear, and have commuted from SV on one side to yes, I don't know what. The council says he wants a solid foundation wall to get a solid level of competence for adults, today's adults probably. But what is this base wall going to consist of? If he thinks of the'reef ball' as a foundation, I'm skeptical of where we end up. He signals new paragraphs giving rise to extensive experimental and project activities at school. Does that mean that the Council of State does not have clear objectives, or does he want to use our children and today's teachers in full-scale trials, so that here too, as in the reform of competences, he can design a policy, a way to go, eventually? The Progress Party will warn against this, because, in our view, he is playing some sort of Russian rule with children and the future of young people. Those who are under education today form the basis of tomorrow's well-being, and so we all would like to have it. Governments want to enhance the quality of and between all stages of the education system. He wants to promote innovation and development, diversity and flexibility, move more of the focus from central governance to local action forums. He must achieve this, among other things. by organising: from obedience to independence from inactivity to activity from a professional school day to day. – It is worth asking for objectives and meaning with the word ‘wholeness’ in this context. From learning individual facts to understanding coherence and problem solving – Understanding things put in context and thereby solving problems was actually the method of learning that I had as early as the 1950s, but there were perhaps particularly good teachers both in primary and secondary schools at that time. I thought we had moved forward. from completion of education to change and motivation for lifelong learning – I would like to say that man is created curious, fundamentally curious. Robots, on the other hand, are programmed to perform specific tasks. If, through primary and secondary education, man has lost this innate, fundamental curiosity in relation to the unknown, yes, then, according to the view of the Progress Party, the school has done a very effective ideological work in relation to God's creation, man. local freedom of action, diversity and flexibility, and ‘to support and empower the school cultures and participants there, so that they can themselves bring about changes in continuous development’. The last is a quote from sociologist Andy Hargreaves' book. This, sir. State council, is a very good goal, but how do we achieve the goal when there is no real will for free play, neither in law, regulations or curricula? In our view, it is not nearly enough to have a new test paragraph that says that this can be done if the Council of State finds it appropriate. It can never be guaranteed that state councils have the necessary prerequisites at any time to know what is useful in a 10-50 year perspective. I can't just forget for my sake the reason for the refusal to run cross-country schools in Osterøy. It was said that the application based on local pedagogics and the use of the community environment was very good, but it could have been a public school, and therefore the application was not accepted. Here something was forgotten at the rejection, and I wonder if the council knows what I am thinking. What was forgotten was the fact that the application was sent just because the public did not want to run this kind of school. It brings me to a very central topic, the users of the school. The parents group, which is a large and diverse group, with all imaginable education based on professional competence, higher education, further academic education and perhaps most importantly – real competence, lifelong learning is often called here. These are adults who, for the most part, have behaved well. They are now largely on the sideline of education policy, but a great many of them want to participate. They're just not taken seriously, because they don't have formal pedagogical competence. The party of progress has noticed that Education Norway is becoming incredibly poor. At least it is claimed, both from primary, secondary, university and university, and not to talk about research. The Progress Party has put forward proposals for and called for a change for many years. Change and development that seems to meet us has happened and sometimes very quickly, but that's not enough. It may not be right for adults to be seen only as producers of children of the state-run welfare society, where cash support is granted when the children are small, but when they become two to three years old, others, so-called professionally competent persons, should be responsible for them, professionals employed by the government with low wages, low professional status and virtually zero offers of continuing and continuing training. This picture is very clear from kindergarten to high school. By the way, this type of poverty is also visible in higher education. When you go to St. Report. No 28 and talking about equivalency, equivalent training for all children, quality assurance of school, clear authority and responsibilities, etc., I have a question for the Council of State: Equal training – that means what is in Innst. O. No 70 for 1997-98: ‘There shall be a fundamental similarity of the resources deployed. Individual students shall receive adapted training to their age and level of development.’ Is this just words, or can the Council of State clarify to me what is contained in these wordings? According to the Council of State, we have a modernised structure and framework for future education policy. But he himself says that now we have to create a content that fits. Does this mean that the Stortinget has adopted a educational map, and that we now need to shape the landscape so that it fits as best we can? The Progress Party will have a free, forward-looking knowledge school. Knowledge is a great concept. A minimum must be that all children learn to read, write and calculate understanding of the problem and are solution-oriented. Language, social knowledge, history and geography are equally important for our school. IT is a natural tool in school. IT itself is a major challenge. Today, individual schools or municipalities can define hardware and software themselves. We will soon come into the situation that the tool IT is the factor that ensures a stable settlement in the districts by not being able to move the students, because the systems used are so different that they work excluding them. We can't be in this. In addition, the Progress Party wants a school your parents can safely send children and young people without creating any doubt that their physical and mental health is being abused, whether by fellow students, teachers or society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1453	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1456	It was an interesting post, although it was not easy to find out what the Progress Party means. Maybe we'll get a little bit more answers now in the string exchange. Reform 94 gave all 16 - 19-year-olds the right to secondary education. In the view of the Labour Party, one of the most important challenges we are facing is that economic considerations should not restrict anyone from taking that right. Today, students pay – i.e. often their parents — for school books and other material. There are expenses that can amount to large sums of money for many families. The Labour Party proposed to grant 50 million in the State budget. kr for start-up, establishment, of a free school book loan scheme, but unfortunately remained standing alone when it came to the play. Then I register that the members of the Education Committee of the Progress Party have recently submitted a proposal to the Stortinget to remove the fixed price scheme for school books. In a good liberalist tradition, the Progress Party lives in the belief that only a little more competition will all be so much better. The stated purpose — cheap school books — is this time noble. The problem is that the proposal will also mean that publishers will be pressured to only publish books that sell well. There won't be much space for poetry collections or other narrow literature. This will make us a poorer country. In addition, the proposals of the Progress Party will particularly affect bookshops in the districts, who do not have a chance of competing with large bookstores in the big cities. Now the Progress Party is not so concerned with the conditions of art or district policy, anyway, but we agree on something: the costs of school books for pupils and parents should be reduced. I expect that the Progress Party will not have a majority in favour of its proposal to terminate the book business agreement. However, together with the Labour Party, the Progress Party can help to secure cheaper school books by starting the escalation of a free school book loan scheme. My question is: Can the Advance Party consider supporting the Workers' Party's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1473	I thought our Document No. Eight proposals that go into the book industry agreement and where we come into school books were to be debated after we had discussed it in the committee and the comments that each party has received, and not in this context. When the representative Konglevoll put it up in his post, I am not quite willing to take that discussion now. On the other hand, what I think is in place is something she herself raised in relation to Reform 94, namely the right to secondary education for the 16-19 year olds and the fact that the economic coverage of this, if you have reached the age of 19, is not present at all, which the Progress Party wants to change. It is appropriate to consider whether those who take secondary education and are at the age of 19 are entitled to a scholarship in the same way as 18-year-olds who are admitted to university are automatically entitled to the rights of the 19-year-old student. In the case of school book loans and the first 50 million. The kr that was granted, it sounds negligible. But if I don't remember completely wrong at the speed, it's not about 50 million. DKK, but in 350 million. SEK – 400 million. kr. We could take the school vacation scheme and reduce the appropriations for it to zero to find this money. But it does not want the Workers' Party, so it remains to be seen where they want to find the money.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1482	The center part belongs to the majority of the population who call about the single school, whether we are in position or in opposition. We heard that the Progress Party is strongly critical of the Unitary School. The centre is concerned that children and young people can attend the same school and receive their adapted training there. This is a big challenge. Nevertheless, we do not want to return to the old special schools, with segregation according to abilities. The representative Evje said today again that she was in deep doubt when it came to the school. After the funding model of the Advance Party, the money has to follow the students, we have heard. It's supposed to be free school choice. In addition, schools shall be ranked according to the results obtained. What about those schools that have relatively many disabled people or students with learning difficulties? At the school I worked at for many years, we would never reach the highest ranking, because the offers at that school were such that we had very many students on special terms. So I'm going into a slightly different topic. I heard the representative Evje say in relation to what the Council of State said in its investigation, that this is to override parental responsibility. Then I found out what the same party said in a comment when it was about the native language training. There they said that if children could not Norwegian when they were going to school, their parents would be fined or reported to child protection. What kind of harmony is there between this and what the representative just said about not neglecting parental responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1491	Our dissatisfaction with the school of unity – or the'reinforcement ball', which I like to say and which I have learned from the Council of State, since the school of unity often resembles two completely identical things – is not due to the school as a school or type as a type, but it has to do with the content and the certainty we have over time that there is no real political will to grant the means necessary to give to all children what they clearly need and have the right to do under the law. It's basically a structure full of fine words and phrases and nothing else. What about those schools that have a lot of children on special terms, and price financing, Tingelstad asked me about. I don't see the whole problem, because unit-price financing doesn't mean you get, for example. 30 000 kroner regardless of the handicap you might have. A priced financing may be as differentiated as a majority wishes to be in relation to users. So here it only has to do with good will from the majority, and not much else. Then she pulled up this proposal that went on that when the parents had not fulfilled parental responsibility, when it could actually be said to be a milder form of care failure, then they would have fines. I would like to say to the representative Tingelstad that it is precisely about strengthening and punishing if parental responsibility is not fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1503	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1506	Release the prisoners, it's ours! This show gave me an association: release the teachers, it is lawful! Many times we have talked about increasing the status of teachers, and most people agree that pay is an instrument. But here we can also focus on another dangerous way to the goal. The Christian People's Party wants to point to the school of opportunity, where teachers get to use their imagination and their different abilities, play on their strengths and complement each other. In such a room, the school will be able to evolve and improve. By drawing out the experimental paragraph and pointing to the liberality that, after all, lies in today's legislation to give students, teachers, schools and municipalities more influence over their own school, changes can take place from below. Reform 94 and Reform 97 provide a good basis for changing school systems and teaching methods. But the real change will happen when the grassroots begin to move. And we need a new school. The one we have today is still very similar to the one that was when I went to school. Society is changing, and the school has to follow. We've had a good school that's fit for its time. Now it's time for more visible changes and to give room for continuous change and development. Then it will be a long time before we need a new reform directed from above. Today, experience learning and ICT are important features of a school of our time. The Christian People's Party still believes that we should have certain common frameworks and objectives for which enlargement and government are responsible, so that quality and equivalency can characterise all schools in Norway. We're going to have a school where students' and teachers' resources are used as much as possible, a school where it can be worn and taught, but we're also going to have a school where it's acceptable to be different and to be able to flourish in different colors. Participation and participation of all parties in the school system are becoming more and more important. With greater educational and organisational freedom in school, it will be able to change from below to within and become a living and good school of learning and well-being. But the Christian People’s Party is also painfully aware that some students and schools are struggling with bullying and violence. Teachers must acquire knowledge that can help them to discover, prevent and prevent, and not least to dare to stand up as distinct adults. Students must learn peaceful ways to resolve conflicts and work continuously with being fellow humans and friends. It is particularly important in view of the increasingly multicultural societies in which we live. The Christian People's Party is concerned that students should have a good professional, physical and psychosocial learning environment, and we will assess minimum standards in school. We want the advisory service to be strengthened, and the Christian People's Party believes that in the future it will have to be given special attention to youth. This step appears to have been cut short in relation to the changes made by the reform. This age group is particularly important in terms of choice of education and profession, and in terms of forming attitudes and creating a way of life that can give good lives to yourself and others. We're looking forward to the Council of State making a bigger deal about youth next year. Otherwise, we are waiting for the Berge Committee to work on the education services that lie between higher education and higher education. It is important that they are able to acquire their specificity and value, and to provide real competences in relation to a profession and in relation to further higher education. The Christian People's Party questions whether the reform of higher education has responded to the expectations you had when it was introduced. Large-scale price advantages have not been sufficiently demonstrated and the professional strengthening is also uncertain. Maybe there are more organisational problems here than resource problems. We need to take time to ensure quality, too, that reform, and see if simplification of procedures and legislation can release resources. Master's degree trials welcome us for better internationalisation. Giving rise to doctoral studies at three colleges is positive, it will only be able to raise the professional environment and status of these schools. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government of the Revised National Budget proposes 3 million. to research and innovation funds. Studies among students have shown a sluggishness with regard to traditional ethics. It is important to keep a constant focus on values from school start-up to top in our education system. Occupational ethics and the focus on general ethical rules must be an important part of higher studies. The quality of life also depends on this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1527	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1530	With a little goodwill, the Council of State's delegation can characterize as interesting, interesting, because the Council of State attaches great importance to strengthening quality, strengthening disability, strengthening flexibility and strengthening local freedom in the school. We still lack a concrete understanding of this, but with a little bit of concreteness and a little bit of helpful reading, this may be a step towards a new school policy that Right has been calling for for for very many years. Perhaps the Christian People's Party is about to become a disgust of its Right instead of its Workers' Party? If you live, you'll see – you're allowed to hope. But then the question is, what concrete is going to come out of this – what concrete is the Council of State really want, and in what direction is the Christian People's Party? The Labour Party has not – and that's what I've been wondering most about in the next two years I've been sitting on the Stortinget – been able to develop a school policy with visions, a school policy with direction and content. I wonder. But to the Christian People's Party: that means that one should have such changes that are sketched here, one in particular. to the right to receive support. Then my question is – if this is a most necessary right-wing turn of school policy: will the representative, Mr Stratveit, be in favour of, for example. that we can get rid of the method section in L97, that we can get greater self-government in the individual school using resources, that we can get a freer wage formation in Norwegian school to prevent the flight we see today from good teachers? Can we get a school where we are growing a lot of inequality within the framework of equivalents?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1540	A turn to the right, maybe in some areas. We have a similar view of some things that are about freedom, about parental rights and such things. If we're going to get a good school, we're going to talk about a school that's changeable, where you have the opportunity to do things along the way, and there I think we can play with the Right team. Unfortunately, I did not quite get a specific question from the representative, so we can take it later today, if I can answer it. To cultivate inequality was the representative in the end. I'm not afraid of it. The point of equality is equidistant. And I don't think I've made any bigger mistakes in school than the way to run school that's about doing everybody the same, because I think that's a mistake. We have to allow every individual, every student, to be himself and to be allowed to build on the possibilities they have. In terms of pay, negotiating rights, etc., newspapers and other media have brought it up today, and we will probably be able to debate it further in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1556	There were many honors here, and they came evenly through the whole article: the status of the teachers has to be raised and one has to consider doing something about the salary. Then I wonder that the times the Christian People's Party has had the opportunity from this pulpit and in this room to give support to that kind of proposal, then the Christian People's Party has not participated in it, cf. a debate we had barely a month ago. We're about to create the school of opportunity, we're going to play on all sides, the grassroots are going to start moving, and we're going to have more freedom. With the new curricula, we have also gained greater freedom, and I might agree with that. In primary school, we had M 87, which also had master plans that gave a great degree of freedom. The Christian People's Party will also consider minimum standards. That was very interesting, because there are also suggestions SV on several occasions have tried to draw out. So I'm very pleased, when our concrete proposals come to the table, that the Christian People's Party will have the opportunity to vote in favour. The Christian People's Party will put particular emphasis on youth, it was also said, and the advisory service will be strengthened. That was a short summary of the article. Today there will be two proposals in this debate from the SV. One is based on working environment regulations for pupils. The second is on earmarked funds to bet on high school. After this article and after all these honorary words, my question to the representative is: Can SV count on the support of the Christian People's Party for these concrete proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1571	Of course, the Christian People's Party is concerned that students should have a good school and a good learning environment in every way. As far as SV's proposal is concerned, I hope that they can convert proposal No. 1 to the transmission proposal, because the Council of State has been involved in this on other occasions and will certainly come back to it today. The Christian People's Party believes that the intention in it is good. When it comes to pay, I don't think I said we should assess pay, but that we almost all agree that pay is an instrument. I think that in such a debate it must be allowed to have objectives and visions without one just saying that one should bring the money into the revised budget or in the next budget. You have to be able to set goals and show the direction in which the party wants to go.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1582	I registered that the representative Løvik in his first line to the representative Stråtveit believed that the Workers' Party was completely without vision in school policy, and that he hoped that the post from Stråtveit meant that the Government would now lean more on the Right in that policy. We get hope for Norwegian school that's not the case, because there's a lot of sad old-fashioned thinking being done, which belongs in the first part of this century. The installation we heard from the representative, Stråtveit, was a celebration. ‘Let the teachers go free’, ‘a new school’ and ‘may change from below’, it was said. It's party speech, and it's theory. On the other hand, what we experience when we are going to make concrete decisions about Norwegian school is the reality, and then the Christian People's Party and the Government are on a rather different channel than the representative of Strawway today. The last time we dealt with the budget, we felt that they cut 300 million. kr to public school. We felt that they cut the equipment appropriations for secondary school, cut the appropriations to go to equipment to follow up Reform 97, and, not least, cut the school leisure programme by about a quarter. 130 million. kr. With regard to the school leisure scheme, we now see that the offer has become worse and that there are fewer applicants. When we introduced the school leisure scheme, it was in connection with Reform 97 and the six-year-olds going into school. We saw that it was hopeless that as young children as 6-7-8-year-olds would meet a locked door when they came home from school, because the working hours of their parents did not match the school time of the students. Does the Christian People's Party mean, with the cuts they've made and the fury in the school leisure system they're about to make, that it's right that so young children should come home to a locked door, and that so young children are fit to be alone in empty houses much of the day? Or will you be willing to reconsider what you have done when you are considering the revised budget?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1593	The fact that the Workers' Party characterizes my post as a theory, is to be borne in mind. That I have faith in changes from below and within, and that it may well be as good as changes from above, as the Workers' Party often comes along, I will stand for that. With regard to the School Leisure Scheme — SFO — in connection with Reform 97, I would like to say one sentence: 6-year-olds’ problems have been created by us ourselves, by introducing school for 6-year-olds. Now I don't think the world looks as dark as Norvoll might want it to, even though SFO isn't such that absolutely everyone gets room there. That many people come home to the locked door, I'm not so sure either. We still have people at home in the morning, and with the new cash support system, we probably have even more mothers and fathers who are at home and can accept the children when they come from school. The changes after the cut that was made are very small, so I am not so terribly afraid of this as the Workers' Party is.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1602	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1605	I first allow myself a slight remark about the last line exchange. Given that we're writing in 1999, I have considerable respect for representatives who have a memory that extends all the way back to the beginning of this century. You can put a lot of different perspectives on the word educational society. You could ask yourself, is there a wish or a statement in it? What is certain, however, is that Norwegian society has fundamentally changed over the past few decades. Perhaps it is easier to see the change in the place of the school and education system by providing a life-cycle perspective for those who are growing up in Norway today. A few years ago, we had a life span of about 70 years, and a school obligation for most people who were 7 years old, i.e. 10 pst. of the lifetime. Today, there is an increasing number of people in the school and education system for up to 20 years. Of an average life span of 80 years, it becomes a quarter of the life span. If you also add that the actual retirement age after the latest statistical data is 59 years, you get an interesting life cycle: the first quarter of your life we spend in school and education, that is, in preparation, and the last quarter we spend in retirement, as before. Only half of your life is in social circles, in what is called working life. You could say a lot interesting about this change in the course of life. But what is going on today is the Minister of Education's presentation of education policy and its role. What clearly makes school and education more important is that in the first quarter of life the foundation is laid for the rest of the life cycle. That's where the attitudes are formed, that's where the knowledge and skills are to be learned, and that's where to be, as it was called in a previous school law, the people of benefit. I noticed in the Council of State's statement that he focused on four basic objectives of the Government's further education policy. They're like: to strengthen the quality at and between all stages of the education system to promote innovation and development, skills and flexibility to shift more focus from the central level of governance to the local space for action to strengthen and concreteise the value perspective of the training’» All of these objectives I can unreservedly join. And I share the Løvik representative's assessment in a previous line shift that this implies a significant approach from the Government to what has been the Right's main objectives in education policy for a long time. In particular, I think it is interesting that the Council of State, as the first point, formulates the objective of strengthening the quality in and between all stages of the education system. I interpret it as a matter of fact that the Council of State is concerned that the fourth part of life that children and young people invest in today's school and education system should provide the best possible outcome in terms of learning, knowledge, skills and attitudes. When he uses the phrase "in and between all classes", I also see it as signaling an increased interest in the coherence of the education system, an increased interest in ensuring that it really should be a progression that makes those who start school at the age of six, or for that matter in kindergarten several years earlier, and who go out perhaps once in the middle of the 20s, have really experienced that they have learned something new all the way, that they have acquired new skills, new knowledge. I look with interest at the further follow-up of this objective by the Council of State, as far as little concrete operational instructions have been given in the statement on how this quality assurance should be carried out. Now, in the section on higher education, the Council of State correctly states: ‘It may be a dangerous way to replace one of the framework plan management with enhanced quality assurance.’ I also agree with 100 percent. But I think that this wording could be usefully extended to all levels of the school system. Because right from the start in high school, I think the right path, if you want to strengthen quality, must be that, to dismantle regulation and framework plan management as far as possible, and instead to focus on finding quality assurance methods that can ensure that children and young people get an equivalent learning outcomes regardless of where they grow up in the country. So to point 2 – ‘promoting innovation and development, skills and flexibility’: Yes, there is a real fundamental need in today’s Norwegian school system for that very thing. The principle of subsidiarity, that no decision should be moved beyond what is necessary for the content of the decision, needs to be brought in, perhaps more in school than anywhere else in today’s Norwegian public system. I fully agree with the Council of State that here there is an unsolved potential of human effort in the Norwegian school, and that there is an urgent need to unlock this potential. Point 3 – ‘to move more of the focus from the central level of governance to the local action space’: it’s probably just another way to say the same thing – I can rightly direct my enthusiasm for the overwhelming use of the photographic language – ‘focus’ is one of the most abused words in today’s Norwegian language – but I also agree here with the fact that responsibility and power need to be shifted from the central levels and as far down towards the individual classroom as possible. Let me also point out that when the expression ‘local action spaces’ occurs in school policy, I would like to interpret it as the classroom, because that is what is the real local space of action in the everyday life of the school, and that is where you have to rely on the individual teacher’s pedagogical skills, sense of responsibility and ability to find the right challenges for the students for whom the teachers are responsible. In concrete terms, the Council of State mentions the need to assess negotiating responsibilities shifted from state level to municipal level. It is also a signal that I greet with joy, for this has been argued by the Right for a long time. I think shifting the negotiating responsibility down could give greater differentiation, and it could give more dynamism to the formation of pay for the teachers. So to the last point – ‘strengthening and concreteising the value perspective of the training’: I also agree with the basic objective at that point. But on this point I have to report a small reservation. The Council of State refers to this objective at university and higher education level as follows: ‘At the initiative of the Norwegian Council of Norway, I will assess how ethical education can be strengthened at university and university level, and what measures can be taken to ensure a high ethical standard in the food and financial environment.’ That the latter can be a good goal, I agree. But that it belongs right here, I'm a little surprised. What I'm even more curious about is that the Council of States wants to connect the Norwegian Network Council in this context, because there is something you don't need to do with the Norwegian Network Council, that must be it. This is the individual education institution's more solar responsibility, and if you were to address it via some national council, it had to be the Higher Education Council and the University Council, and not the Norwegian Network Council. The task of the Norwegian Network Council is to allocate work tasks between the different departments, and this is not a question of division of labour. This is about stimulating individual educational institutions to take full and complete responsibility for the quality of their education at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1661	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is now at hand. The President will propose that the change of lines be implemented after the previous speaker before the morning’s meeting is cancelled – and considers it to be a welcome one. So it's going to be a string change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1666	I think it can quickly be said that if people are to support a common public school and find it attractive, they must be both good, safe and quality proof. This means that we have to accept a multicultural school, a school where everyone has to meet, regardless of economic and social background. Let me say that in many ways this is the Norwegian peculiarity. We must protect and further develop this. I'm not sure about the policies of the Wage and the Right in this area, that is, the area he's talking about was the first quarter of the life cycle. On the other hand, I agree with wages when he claims that the school must open up to shortages. Equality, equality, openness and understanding must go hand in hand. Therefore, according to the Labour Party, it is important to give priority to public education measures rather than private and individual schemes, as Right often does. I often lack the Right's perspective in education policy – or is it in the whole perspective of education policy? I often feel that it is the simple and conservative answers that repeat themselves repeatedly. As I experience the Inge Reward Party, it is a party that is opposed to all new reforms. The only contribution we have seen lately is actually the introduction of advertising-funded schoolbooks, which were very topical in front of the national meeting to the Right. After the national meeting, there has been more silence about it, and I could imagine asking the representative for a salary for that matter now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1675	The representative Oppebøen Hansen made a significant contribution, but the hope was relatively modest, then. I must respectfully say that the question Upbeøen Hansen ended up with, I consider myself as as peripheral as he himself. And why you're going to spend time on it in an educational policy debate, I have a little bit of a hard time understanding it. On the other hand, I would like to address the challenge to Opbebøen Hansen of a more general nature. Clearly, there is a fundamental difference in the attitude of private school services between the Workers' Party and the Right. But the difference is probably first and foremost that the Right has a principle view of this that is consistent with the private school law we have in Norway today, which makes this a right if certain assumptions are met. The Labour Party has wavered back and forth in its attitude to this, but there has been a constant reluctance to private schools, without it being clear how this reluctance is justified. But I have to remind the representative Upbeøen Hansen that in his draft budget last year the Labour Party proposed to go to quite a dramatic cut in the allocation of private schools, well aware that this would be contrary to the private school law, and without going the way of a legislative amendment. And it's at least some kind of policy that's not credible, simply because there's no match between the proposals you're promoting, and your own willingness to take the consequences of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1683	Right wants the world's best school. I don't know anyone who doesn't. When characterizing the school right, they use the words "growth centre" with "knowledge-repudiation". I don't recognize it after being in school for 20 years. I think that most subjects have a much higher level now than they had if a looker backwards. Does the Right agree that in today's modern and complex societies we need an extended concept of knowledge? And what will the Right put into an extended concept of knowledge? The right is also so concerned about comparing the academic level of schools and ranking schools among themselves. I wonder if the party has looked at the negative sides this could lead to. And what negative sides have the Right considered less important in relation to what one believes to get out of such a ranking?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1692	I do not know what source it was for the representative, Mr Stråtvei, to point out with the wording she used. But let me make it clear to the Right that we want the same approach as the State Council wanted in its presentation, namely, the question: how can you get the optimal benefit of all the years that children and young people spend in the school system today? Extended knowledge concept is primarily rhetoric. Extended in relation to what? Of course, knowledge is a complex and diverse concept, and the Right has always been concerned that knowledge is something far more than keeping track of information, being able to do without some fractions of fact. Knowledge has to do with the ability to put individual factors into context, it has to do with understanding, and it also has to do with attitudes. In this way, I don't think it should be the slightest disagreement between the Christian People's Party and the Right in understanding what the school's knowledge objective is. I believe – as the representative Løvik has also pointed out earlier in this change of words – that the Council of State's educational policy statement is in fact so precise in the rental that the Right has been on for quite a long time with regard to the view of Norwegian school and the challenges of Norwegian school, that there is really no reason why the Christian People's Party and the Right should disagree on this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1703	These debates tend to become ritualistic, and I understand that Inge Wage with his background needs ritual debates. That's probably the third or fourth time we've now served this with a quarter and half of a quarter. That's okay enough, and it's important enough to have it in the back of your head. But I think that in the future society that we're going into, it's probably the education period – even if it's going to be replaced – will extend beyond a quarter of a lifetime. And actually, I guess we're learning pretty much all our life. But that wasn't the starting point for my question. Sometimes when I hear about Inge Wohnning, I wonder if he knows the curriculum and the curricula we have for Norwegian school. He was talking about a context in the education process. That's what we've been given – now I'm talking about primary school and high school. We've got a common curriculum that includes both primary and secondary, and we've got curriculums based on each other, so that there's going to be a progression from first grade to high school. So we have the relationship. But I'm a little bit unsure of what view Inge Wohnung has on these curricula. Then I want to go back to this with the knowledge vision, which was also the Christian People's Party. Now I assume that Inge Wohnning knows the curricula, and then my question to him is: Does he agree with the knowledge that is reflected in these primary school curriculums – a knowledge view that is based on both the traditional concepts of knowledge and has added to it what goes on student participation, a stronger student exposure in the learning process, etc.? So, in concrete terms – and I hope Inge Wohnung can answer yes or no to this: Does he and Right largely agree with the knowledge that lies in the curriculum for primary and secondary schools?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1716	I note that it must be more than I have the sense of ritual debate. I can confirm to the representative Rikvam that I know the curriculum, and that I have no problems with what has been said in general about the objectives of the curriculum. On the other hand, I have the principle that the terrain is usually worth more to be interested in than the map. And what is the problem in today’s Norwegian school – as the Council of State says explicitly in its educational policy statement – is not the map sketches, because chart sketches have more than enough of them. The problem is that the distance between the map sketches and the terrain has become alarming and that there is reason to try to do something about the terrain. This is why it is time for a comprehensive message about greater freedom, greater diversity, greater opportunities to organise and differentiate education, so that one can really get close to the goal of adapted education. I fully agree with the goal of adapted education, and there is nothing we have been more concerned about from the Right in school policy. But we all know that there is a significant distance between this goal and the reality in today's Norwegian school. This is where the real challenge lies: how do you bring all the fine goals into the everyday life of the school, and how do you give the individual teacher in the individual class situation the opportunity to achieve this goal? It's at this point that I have the feeling that the Council of State has seen the light. He didn't see it as clearly as long as he was committee chairman in the previous period, but now he's seen it, and it's good, while there's some others in this room who still have good to see it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-11.ana.ud1129e1727	With the inspiration of the two previous speakers, the President will now take the ritual action to end this morning's meeting. The evening meeting will be set at 9.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
