ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e24	A throne speech is normally a program statement of what the government will do at the moment it opens. I had expected that the number of thrones at the opening of this magnification would be something more, this because we are on the threshold of a new hundred years, not to say thousand years. At the top of this, we are at full speed away from the industrial community and into the knowledge society. The challenges that this brings with it, I would have expected to be mentioned in the throne we are discussing today. The transition from the industrial community to the knowledge society is already in full swing. What happens in practice is that the new technology increases productivity in the mature industries, but does not create a new demand. The many large mergers that we see in business are aimed at distorting the latest economies of scale out of fashion, and at limiting the price competition that threatens each mature industry. In order to secure capital, parts of the enterprise are often sold out – and often abroad. The capital thus acquired by many enterprises is rarely invested in new business, because the owners do not understand the new business areas. The result is, on the one hand, an increasing concentration and a branching of Norwegian business, without replacing the decline of the old by new business. In other words, there is a mismatch between those who have ideas for new industries, but need capital, and the existing business or state, who have capital. Building bridges over this gap will be the biggest industrial policy challenge for Norway as we now enter the next millennium. These challenges are not mentioned in the census, and are far away in the budget for the first year of the next hundred years. The government has been fighting for almost two years against a project that points to an industrial path into the new knowledge society. Of course, I have the IT knowledge centre at Fornebu in mind. In addition, the Government, together with the Right Party and the Advance Party, has been most busy selling in or out of Norwegian industrial companies. If this sale had taken place on the basis of a long-term industrial policy strategy, I would not have said anything. But it's more arbitrary what happens. Besides, the government should have a strategy for how to use freed capital and the wealth of capital that you otherwise have to help bring about new industries. Today, the daily newspaper has a long list of Norwegian business candidates. There can be a lot of talk about it. I hope the government takes this listing seriously. There is also reason to consider how the Government manages the ownership of the enterprises where the state is owned. Hydro is in the process of selling out important activities such as Dyna and Hydro Seafood. What hold does the Government have for this? The exploitation of our marine resources has barely come out of the development stage. That Hydro Seafood should come on foreign hands must be crazy. I have no objection that owners from other countries go into Norwegian business, nor in the exploitation of our maritime resources. However, it is far from giving up control and control. Nor should one forget that it is important to take care of the competences of having head offices in the country. Norway is developing into a branch country. The government has no clear thoughts about how to meet this challenge. Nor can I be allowed to comment on the passivity of the Government in relation to the challenges of the Norwegian offshore and yard industry. The government had the power to stop many extensions on a Norwegian socket almost two years ago. It seems that the same government does not have the power to get the projects it stopped, to get them out of the drawers, or to realize other expansion projects. Today we received notice that the new 1500 within this industry had been cancelled. It is time for new initiatives to be taken. There can be no doubt that we are in a serious situation in these industries. The competence built up over the years with great difficulty is at risk of loss. Thousands after thousands are being cancelled. We must all take this seriously. The situation has progressed to such an extent that targeted measures must now be put in place. Modernisation of installations, investments in measures that make the enterprises more competitive, as well as skills-providing measures, must now be on the table. We in the Labour Party would like to help bring forward the proposals I have named – and others – to resolve the serious situation. Then back to the development of the new nutrients. If we are to be closed in the transition from the industrial to the competence community, there are many elements that need to be put in place. Our main contribution is to contribute to the renewal of industrial policy. A foundation must be laid here through a partnership between the state and the private sector. In 1997, a central seed capital fund and four regional funds totalling 400 million were created. kr. Privates invested half, while the government contributed to risk-absorbing through a responsible loan. Experience is so good that this should be followed up by new measures. The working party has previously made proposals to establish an investment fund of between DKK 1 and 5 billion, where private individuals are responsible for 51 pst. of the capital. This should now be created to meet the heavy economic uplifts in relation to Norwegian business. Within this framework and in order to ensure the greatest possible lack of ideas, a number of investment companies should also be set up, which are required to have the aim of investing in different types of enterprises. As I see it, it is desirable that some owners or groups of owners have a significant impact on the individual investment company. This will ensure that the owners really commit themselves to making the project successful. The industrial challenges that lie ahead must be taken seriously. We need to ensure what is life-creating, as well as we need to develop the new nutrients. There is a need for willingness to change and bet, as well as for action to implement accommodating measures. It seems that the government doesn't see the challenges, or it doesn't have the ability to address them. As a result, industrial policy is far from the documents to be seen in the next hundred years. It should all be eightful for Norwegian businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e52	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e55	Like Kjell Opseth, we are also concerned about the situation in the offshore business and at our offshore offices. There has been a topic that has been discussed in Stortinget several times after we had a very large boom in investments for some years back and got a situation where, after a low oil price, very many of the oil companies were detained with orders and with the development of new fields. The Progress Party, in the context of the revised national budget, proposed, as a clear positive signal to improve the economy in the development of new oil fields, to remove the CO2 tax, which is a flat-rate charge independent of oil prices and which has been very burdensome and significant for investment decisions in oil companies. We proposed to remove 1 July this year, as an immediate, positive and clear signal of improved economy. In fact, it was against the Workers' Group. I think we also made proposals for a faster rate of closure of the production fee for those fields that have such a production fee, and where one is also withheld in relation to the assessments of the oil companies. Is it so to understand that the Workers' Party really regrets that they did not vote in favour of our proposal in the revised national budget, because if the Workers' Party had voted in favour of our proposal to remove in particular the CO2 tax with effect from 1 July this year, would there perhaps be a slightly greater activity and interest in oil companies to speed up projects and thus act as a dampening to the offshore supply industry? I have noticed that in the election campaign – and also well in the demands now towards the Government – the Workers' Party talked about doing something faster with the CO2 tax. Is it so to understand that the Workers' Party now, in retrospect, really regrets that they did not do anything that could have had an impact on this sector?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e64	It is not new that Hagen and the Progress Party will solve the vast majority of challenges through tax relief and tax relief. There is no particular doubt that in the situation we now have, oil companies will be waiting, simply because they want a better general framework. In the revised national budget, we proposed that the government should negotiate with the company in order to start planning and developing specific fields, i.e. a more specific approach to the challenges we face than the Progress Party and the representative Hagen will. But there is a different way for the Government to make things easier. The government as a general meeting of one of the largest companies, and it also has the opportunity to talk to the company to find a solution to the situation we're up against. It's possible to talk to both the operators and the licensees to solve the difficulties we're currently in, if it's just political will. It's not like the Progress Party wants it to be at all conditions, it's just the frame conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e71	It must be admitted that the representative Kjell Opseth is of the Northmen who have built the country. On the coast, where we both cage, this implies, in addition to the mountain through the hole as yellow cheese, that the shipping industry gets good conditions. So it pleased me when the Workers' Party wrote in the Nutrient Message setting: ‘That is why there is a special focus on areas where we have the ability to be among the best in the world. In the opinion of these members, this should lead to the introduction of framework conditions and tools specifically for these areas and industries. Current area is maritime sector including shipping’» This quote is no less interesting when I read on from the Workers' Party's comments: ‘These members have as their starting point that Norway cannot have a tax regime that differs significantly from the countries we compete with without risking companies moving abroad.’ True and straight. I couldn't get any more agreement with Kjell Opseth. But when is the Labour Party going to take the consequences of its own analysis of Norwegian business, and not least our shipping industry, in a globalised value? And what is it that Labour and Tony Blair and other social democrats in Europe have misunderstood when they give shipping tonnage taxes according to Norwegian model, only with even more favourable conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e86	Now it is not the case that the representative Apelthun Seele and the Government have always been quite a few about the taxation of réarlags in this country. It's enough to refer to the budget for the current year, where the government had a different proposal than that of the seventh and last decided here in the house. But what's pretty clear is that when you see taxes and taxes for Norwegian business as a whole, we don't get very bad compared to the countries we can compare with. It's not only useful to look at the treasure. One has to look at the total burden of business when comparing. But the total comparison from country to country is constant. We can't distinguish anything significantly from other countries, because in a globalized value, a company will see that companies move where they see them have the greatest advantages purely economically. That's what we're content to do over time. But then you have to look at the totality, and not as some people tend to do, just look at some elements. It's getting too snowy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e93	Kjell Opseth was very critical of the government's industrial policy in his speech, and it is to a great extent many things to put your finger on there. But thank me for it in relation to the instructions that Kjell Opseth and the Workers' Party gave in last year's alternative budget, and what we have already seen. Kjell Opseth referred to what is in Dagbladet today about Norwegian companies that are on cheap sales. I really hope that Kjell Opseth has read it, and that he read it again. For as far as I can see, the recipe Kjell Opseth is a recipe that will make it even worse than it is today. What Kjell Opseth wants is just a politicized market. He just said it in the answer to Carl I. Hagen now compared to the CO2 tax and this by using the general assembly power, etc., he talks about that if capital is needed, the state must be a brewer, the state has capital. In fact, the Workers' Party and Kjell Opseth are willing to go in with capital even where there is no need. The best example we have is IT Fornebu. Even though it is in the most interesting investment industry, in the most interesting area, you want to spend hundreds of millions in state ownership, not because capital is in demand. And with regard to the content of the project itself, I assume that the employee's representative has no more insight than what I have. It doesn't make me particularly safe when we're going to spend hundreds of millions in investments on the owner's side. My question is short and good: Why do the Workers' Party and Kjell Opseth think that even where there is no shortage of capital, you have to bring in hundreds of millions – is that to ensure governance, or what is really the cause?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e102	I'm not overconfident that a new attempt from my side to explain the Labour Party's policy towards the representative Gabrielsen has a chance to close, because we've tried that so many times. It's just to tell you that we have a completely different ideological platform. In the opinion of the representative Gabrielsen, everything must be done according to market forces. We've seen a lot of examples of where it's praying. So it really surprises me that the Right still swears to the degrees that market forces will solve everything. The Labour Party and I think that there might be a need to keep a little bit of an ear in order for things not to go completely wrong. So ask a why should go into IT fornebu by hundreds of millions. It's good that there were hundreds of millions, it's not long since there were billions, not a billion, but billions in multiples, so it's good that it's come down to the level where we've claimed it's all the time. Yes, I can try at once to explain why we believe that the state should be with private people. It's because we want to be involved and influence the new industries and get speed in the development of the new industries. I can't believe it's going to be so crazy. In fact, all those who have applied to establish themselves in an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu want the government to be there. One reason why we want to be with you might be that we like to see this spread across the whole country, and it's pretty illustrative that the Right is the only ones who don't see this as a business-political way into the knowledge society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e113	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e116	We are often told that we are so rich that we are so well here in Norway. And of course, many examples of materialistic prosperity can be presented in our country, but this claim that Norway's wealth is almost limitless appears to be a somewhat amazing claim for some. For many, it is very surprising where this wealth is located, when significant errors and shortcomings are easily visible in virtually all the most important areas of our society. How is it possible that a small country where the state collects record high taxes and fees, where oil and gas flow, where hydropower, fisheries and maritime resources are formidable, are unable to improve the standard of supply in the most fundamental areas of society, such as health, care for the elderly, school and last but not least transport? In Norway, we have just developed a large public sector to address the needs of citizens for different types of services, and public efforts have gradually become so extensive that the welfare state is becoming a precarious challenge to finance. Meeting, for example, could be a challenge that is almost insurmountable in the future. the full commitment of the public interest if all existing aid, support and subsidy schemes are also to be continued at the same level as today. In addition, if we are to avoid large public service output from any more effective competitive delay, the welfare system could falter and even collapse. The requirements for more efficient use of economic and human resources will be much more stringent in the future than they are today. It will be a disaster to park the public sector on some sort of protective siding, if we really want to enable the nation to deal with the formidable tasks we know that our country will be faced in the near future. The potential for efficiency in the public sector must not be underestimated and therefore the same efficiency and competition requirements must be imposed on public activities as on private enterprises. And this is precisely one of the policies in the next thousand years, namely a better political understanding of the need for a more efficient social system in order to create the best opportunities for the development of entrepreneurial enterprises, and to facilitate entrepreneurs and job-seekers. Politicians must not put even more complicate or tax obstacles in the way of business and people, and action must be taken immediately behind the government’s beautiful words about a simpler Norway. Is it therefore particularly sensible, in such an efficiency perspective, to link up valuable labour through a subsidised agricultural and rural policy, which contributes to the creation of overemployment and inefficient use of resources in these industries? And is it possible for eternity to continue a kind of protectionist public sector policy aimed at protecting public service production from free competition and market influence? The country will simply not be able to afford to continue the extensive public service production in health, care and school as protected public monopolies, where price, quality, efficiency and portability requirements are disconnected from any market competitive exposure. Policy actors need to increase the focus on creating the best conditions for an expansive, economic and material development for our nation and for our people, rather than having to conduct detailed management and exercise millimeter justice. Everyone understands that something is wrong when we claim to be the richest country in the world, but can afford only marginal investment in something as important as for example. road systems. For example, E18 is located in East Agder as a herb path and a track. It is a sad monument to state greed and a form of state schizophrenia in those areas that are really important to the development of our country in the future. So this lack of coherence between the state's great economic ability and the lack and extent of quality and supply is a powerful paradox, and it puts the self-responsiveness of the world's richest country in a rather dark light.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e134	‘At the entrance of a new millennium, work is being done to preserve the basis of life on the globe, peace and human rights and the reconciliation between the peoples of the world in the first place.’ This is what it said in the beginning of the century, as it sounded here a week and a half ago. The President of the Grand Duchy also highlighted the need for peace and reconciliation in the world in his speech at the opening of the Grand Duchy, and stressed the importance of Norway’s continued commitment. I would like to pay tribute to the Grand President for this reminder, and hope this emphasis will also be reflected in the budget for work on peace and reconciliation. Of the 110 current conflicts in the world, 30 have to be considered warriors, and these cost enormous resources. A country like Pakistan with 150 million. Citizens operate with a state budget of about 90 billion Norwegian krone – less than one fifth of our own state budget. And Pakistan uses 70 pst. of that budget for military purposes. It will probably not be less after the military coup yesterday, not least because of the ongoing conflict over Kashmir. India could also badly need more funds for the fight against poverty rather than for military purposes. When I started high school in 1961, there were 3 billion people on earth. So in less than 40 years, the earth's population has doubled. Yesterday we passed 6 billion, and 1 billion of these struggles to survive. It reminds us of Norway's responsibility to escalate the fight against hunger and poverty. At the end of a year, companies and companies tend to make up their minds, and the state of the company can be read out of the balance sheet. It could be interesting now at the end of this century to establish the status of our nation and the developments we've been through. What is the state of the enterprise in Norway? What's on the asset side, and what's on the liability side? Are we ready to meet a new century? Norway has moved from a farming and fishing community to one of the richest countries in the world. During this century we have had extensive use of electrical power, telephones and medical innovations. We have become one of the world's foremost welfare societies with rights and benefits our grandparents never dreamed of. We have received internationalisation of trade based on information technology and a strong growth in wealth. All of this — our economic development based on natural resources, oil and gas activities, the production and sale of goods and services and the primary industries — must undoubtedly be placed on the asset side. But unfortunately we have a passive side too. Norwegian society has been strongly affected by two world wars and ideological upheavals, such as the fight against communism and Nazism. Fortunately, the Workers' Party separated teams from the Communist International in 1923. We have developed chemical and nuclear weapons, and the global threats to nature and the environment are also threatening Norway. But unfortunately, we also have to include on the passive side the dramatic changes in society that have occurred in Norway. In Oslo, there is now only one person living in more than half of the dwellings. It tells something about broken relationships, about lack of relationships, and at least about a change in the family pattern that has given secure growth conditions through generations. Drug use has increased sharply over the same period. The same is true of crime. In 1960, 38 000 crimes were investigated, while today the number is approaching 300,000 on an annual basis. It's over a sevenfold in the last 40 years. The liability side of our national balance sheet looks rather gloomy in many areas, but we are now approaching the areas where politicians are more or less powerless, and where what is crucial is the personal choices and ethical values that each individual makes to his own. But perhaps we – at least as national politicians – could contribute to highlighting positive values and role models that most of us can follow. All people have equal value. We'll care about the poorest, the sickest and the weakest. We should not control and rule people, but rather view ourselves as servants of the people. And we have to raise these values both personally, in the social debate and with our political actions. In the throne debate in the autumn of 2040, none of us will likely be present in the hall. There aren't so many here now either, but there will be an unknown generation with new leaders. We can probably go a long way in shaping the society these leaders are going to grow up in the coming decades, but the most important thing will be what values are at the bottom. And I would therefore like to say a great deal on the way to agree with the representative of Wage in his post described as the main challenge that Right sees it for the next century: how do we take care of education and raising the growing up family?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e155	The debate on the throne signals a shift in Norwegian politics. After two years of right- and right-wing party policy, we can now have a budget for next year in the direction of social democracy policy, a policy where fair distribution is central, a policy for investing in education and, not least, a better policy for families with children. The central government is now signaling a greater willingness to cooperate with the Workers' Party. It may seem that the centre parties have learned that in many ways the development carries the wrong place with the Right and the Advance Party. But although there is reason to be optimistic, there are still difficult and tough negotiations. For the government's budget proposal is far from good enough. One example of this is child and family policy. The central government would give young children's parents freedom of choice. I'd like to ask if the vast majority of young children's parents today actually feel that they've got it. There is only one freedom of choice when there are several options, and many young children’s parents do not feel that they have any choice, because there is no option to choose kindergarten. We see that there are several thousand children in line waiting for a nursery. We have to note that under the central government there are fewer kindergartens built, and the goal of full childcare in 2000 is unfortunately impossible to achieve. In addition, we also see that the price of a nursery place has increased significantly. Many today pay well over $3,000 a month for a kindergarten, and at the same time we see that the school leisure system has also become more expensive. I wonder if the Council of State is really comfortable with this situation, whether it is not such that the Council of State itself and the Government feel that this is a bit too defensive about what kindergarten actually needs. So one has increased the prices of services to young children's parents are totally dependent on. At the same time, we know that this is one of the many groups that are struggling economically. What happens on the housing market reinforces this picture. Housing prices are increasing, and high housing prices are hitting young and young children’s parents to a much greater extent than those well established in the slightly higher age range. The government's draft budget continues in the wrong direction. The allowance is proposed to be removed, which means a deterioration in the economy of families with children. For the Workers' Party, it is essential to improve the situation of young children's parents. A budget compromise must distort policy in this area. Several kindergartens have to be built, and the operating grant has to be increased, so that we can bring prices down. At the same time, we must also get a boost for the school leisure system. Cash support is just as bad for the Workers' Party now as it has been for the last two years, but there is a majority of the Stortingen for this scheme. This majority cannot be changed until the next choice is reached at the earliest. We may never find ourselves in a situation where the Workers' Party will defend cash support, but we are committed to improving child and family policies in other areas. The evening post presented a study on time use in the family a few days ago, and not surprisingly, the conclusion was that we spend less time together now than before. The only ones that came out on the plus were the fathers. The fact that fathers spend more time with their children is positive, and that's a crazy political development. The birth rate, introduced by the Workers' Party, is an important reason why the time of fathers and children is increasing. I believe that the time is ripe for men to have their own earnings rights. We have this in our program. It is therefore very positive that the government is taking steps towards giving fathers a greater opportunity for time with their children. Better division of labour between women and men at home is a prerequisite for better equality in the workplace and in our society for the rest. In Norway, we like to boast that we've come a long way in equality, but we still have a piece left. We could just read in the newspaper about the business managers' blacklist. Being pregnant came in third place, further down came single-parents and toddlers. I believe this testifies to the terrible old-fashioned attitudes of today's leaders. Having children is one of the most natural things in the world. Yes, in fact, our society is totally dependent on women reproducating. In times of low birth rates, it has been suggested as a problem that women do not give birth to enough children. In the last few years, we've seen that birth rates have increased. Discrimination against women in working life because they expect children should be totally unacceptable. Equally evil is the fact that single-parents are also exposed to this. 40 pst. of all marriages go into disintegration, and this is not a small group. If everyone who was framed on this blacklist is to be excluded from work, I think there is reason to ask questions about who is going to work in the future. The Labour Party believes that from a political point of view we must take this into account. Our legislation should be good enough, but we cannot rule out that it can be made even better and more stringent. We need to have a dialogue with the social partners. We cannot go into a new millennium with these kinds of attitudes among the Norwegian business community. This is not the only example of business depending on gender equality. Women's representation in corporate boards and women's leaders are other areas. And with regard to the last, the newspaper also had a look that makes very conservative, yes, I would just say old-fashioned attitudes. Female bosses are witches, was the headline. I would like to see documentation for such a general claim about female bosses. There are, of course, bad bosses represented by both sexes, but generalizing and saying that one gender is better at leading than the other, that's wrong. I believe that the best management and the best use we can get of human resources is when both women and men take responsibility for the management of different parts of our society. And I know how important it has been in the political environment. A much more serious theme that has shaped our newsprint in the last few days is forced marriage. The stories we've heard are from girls who have been or are in forced marriage, and this is serious reading. It's explained by culture, but it's not acceptable. When the Workers' Party was in the Government, the prohibition of coercion was introduced, but laws are not enough if they are not accepted and respected. An immediate measure we need to assess is the establishment of a central crisis response, where competence and language skills can be found for this group. In the end, women's oppression has been motivated by religion and culture throughout history and around the world. We can understand that, but we can never allow ourselves to accept it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e189	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e192	It is probably the second time today that the representative Orheim is involved in this with kindergartens and the fear of places. She said earlier today in a line that there were 11,000 seats that were in danger of being closed. I do not know whether the representative has placed these 11,000 seats in relation to public children's playgrounds or private children's playgrounds. But what is interesting about the representative from the Workers' Party is that there is no point at all in where the problem lies. For the solution to the kindergarten problem in the Workers' Party is to build even more kindergartens, to get even more places, even though we know that the existing ones are struggling as much as they do. I can inform the representative that only in private kindergartens there is a risk during the year that one will have an accumulated deficit of 200 million. kr. With regard to the problem of parental and municipal and private kindergartens, I can tell you that only in 1997 there was a price increase in municipal kindergartens of 28 p.m., while in private kindergartens the same year there was a price increase of 2.8 p.m.. Nevertheless, the difference between the parental payment in private and public kindergartens is minimal. My question to the representative must therefore simply be, on the basis of the signals we also received in the election campaign: is it such that the Workers' Party also sees private kindergartens as a resource in the future, or is it such that the Workers' Party still has a desire that the 11,000 kindergartens now go bankrupt, and that the municipal and public kindergartens should take over them, so that they can fulfil their desire to have all the kindergartens in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e199	In particular, in the last two years, the Labour Party has been deeply concerned about the situation of many of its kindergartens. The situation has been particularly dramatic for private kindergartens. We had earlier a winter study from Polarfakta that showed that as many as between 500 and 1000 private kindergartens were in danger of being closed down. And if we start from the department's own numbers, they show that as many as 14 pst. of private kindergartens struggling with an economic imbalance. This means that as many as 11,000 places are at risk of closure. But then to the representative's question: Does the representative Per Sandberg think that we don't have queues of children who want to go into kindergarten in Norway today? Because this means that we have to do two things. We have to build new kindergartens, but at the same time we also have to go in with funds, so that we can get a more acceptable operating framework even in private kindergartens. I don't see any contradiction in this. Only in Oslo, there are 4,200 children in kindergarten queues, and we know that the numbers at land level are much higher. I would therefore have wanted us to reach a cross-political agreement so that we got a promise in the next few years and got to a full kindergarten development, which we can't now achieve in the next year, and that in the long run we can also manage to raise our eyes and focus on both the private and municipal kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e208	Even though the representative Bekkelem Orheim correctly pointed out that the birth rate has risen a little, perhaps as a result of family policy lately, most social researchers in Europe are certain that we are now on the way into a demographic winter. Thus, fewer and fewer young people have to support more and more older ones. And so bad is reproduction, for example. in Italy, the country’s population is reduced from 60 million. today at 20 million. of 100 years. Then there will be dramatic followers. Everyone understands that. I'm now recording that the Labour Party thinks this is disturbing, and that's good, because it's survival debate no. 1 in the new millennium, at least when we live in Europe. The Christian People's Party has been committed to improving family policy for many years. The survival of a society depends on a giving birth to the basic cell of society. 1, the family, which restores or reproduces. I don't expect the representative Karita Bekkellem Orheim to abolish abortion vows, even if it's sad, because it's indisputable that we can't afford to deprive one fifth of the next generation of life's rights. It's both immoral and destructive, but I don't expect that. But does the Labour Party realise that we need flexible care solutions for the family of the society that, by the year 2000, is becoming more flexible when it comes to working hours and workplaces? Different parents will have different needs. The government is investing in kindergartens, in child welfare at 18 years of age, in self-righteousness for fathers to ignite birth money and cash support, which most young children’s parents have actually chosen. And I think, in respect of them, that they've done it, that it's because they think it's best for the child and for parents. But the question is this: is the Workers' Party's recent acceptance of cash support a warning that the party is blowing up the A4 model for the family, which has been crushing the party for so long?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e219	With regard to Apelthun's last question, there is no doubt that the Workers' Party's fundamental and ideological resistance to cash support is at stake. But we have accepted that there is a cooperation in this room that means that this agreement is still in place, and that the cash support is also implemented in the last two years of this grossing-up period. We want to get a grip on Norwegian policy, and we are concerned about the developments we have. have seen in the case of kindergartens. That's why we want to work together with the Government on the next two state budgets. When the representative is concerned about this with working time and flexibility, I have to say that there is some party that has gone for this in Norway, it is precisely the Workers' Party. It is not the Christian People's Party or the Right that has extended the maternity leave, that has introduced the Time Account Scheme, or that has introduced a federal quota, that is actually the Workers' Party that has done. But I see that the Christian People's Party has recently become more modern, and that they have now introduced their own right of access to fathers, and that is of course positive. So to what the representative says about the abortion law. I strongly react to the attitude expressed by the representative here by saying that it is immoral and destructive that some women today commit abortion. I don't think there are any women today who do an abortion, who do it in an easy way. This is a very difficult matter for most women who come into this situation. And I don't think it's necessary for us politicians to use our index finger on these questions and be moral in relation to what individuals find too good to choose.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e230	The representative, Bekkemelm Orheim, deserves commendation for putting the framework conditions of the private kindergartens on the agenda, also in the Workers' Party. As the head of the working party women, she has also been a proponent of getting the Workers' Party to think better about cash support. And she finally got that, even though it might have been a few weeks late for the Workers' Party. In this context, the women’s movement presented a number of demands to stop the so-called right turn of family policy. One of the requirements was to improve the framework conditions for kindergartens and thus to allow for the reduction of parental pay in kindergartens. When the Workers' Party has now advanced its claims to the Government, they require 10,000 new kindergartens and an increased operating grant to the municipalities. In the Ministry's draft budget, it is stated, as the representative himself had said, that 14 pst. of the private kindergartens have a persistent negative economic imbalance, in other words, they are approaching bankruptcy. This represents approx. 11,000 kindergartens. Now I heard that the representative said this was not a choice you had to make, you had to do both. Both 10,000 new sites were to be built and at the same time the 11,000 that are at risk of closure could continue. But then I think the wording Arbeiderpartiet has included in the claim list for the Government, namely an increase in operating grants to the municipalities to reduce the parental payment, at best there is something upresis. What does the Workers' Party mean? Will they increase the framework transfers to municipalities, will they increase the state contribution or will they make special arrangements for private kindergartens? The right would like to participate in a debate on the latest and believe that the time has come to really focus on the job being done in private kindergartens, and to make sure that they now come up at a decent level in terms of support. The municipalities have failed completely in this area, and this year the ministry has chosen to remove the grading of municipal support for private and public kindergartens with which they have always had, probably because the numbers are now becoming so embarrassingly small.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e241	First, I would like to thank the representative of Greece for the rose. As I said in my previous reply to Per Sandberg, the Workers' Party has been deeply concerned about the situation of private kindergartens. We recognize that we need the private kindergartens. They stand for 50 pst. of the total nursery provision in Norway. It is clear that with the introduction of the cash support, the market for kindergartens has changed. And by this we mean that it's a citizen for a completely different bet than the one we've seen from the Government. It is clear that many of the challenges facing private kindergartens cannot be taken immediately above this state budget. I think we have to take them over time. The causes of the economic problems are many. There are delays in spending, but also the last two paychecks make the situation difficult. Obviously, the private kindergartens can also operate the way they do, because there are a lot of people who don't have collective agreements. In this way, they can operate in a cheaper way than some municipal kindergartens can do. As I said to the representative Sandberg, I hope that in this field we can achieve a “cross-political consensus”, so that we can, for example, achieve a “cross-political consensus”. can add a new three-year plan to get full child care coverage, and that we can get an offensive bet on both private and municipal kindergartens. It could in turn mean that the parents will get a reduced parental payment. We will later have a broad review of this in the treatment of the announced nursery service, which will be submitted before Christmas. But the situation is acutely too many, and that is why the Labour Party wants us through this cooperation to also get a boost for the private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e254	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e257	I would like to make a few comments on the proposal No. 4 and 5 from the Group of the Progressive Alliance. These are part of the wake-up TV programme ‘The State of the Kingdom’ last week. And when I say "supervisive," it's because that characteristic has been used by some, including our Minister of Justice. But it was not particularly eye-catching for those who have been involved in the development of some of the immigrant communities. Young women, or almost girls, in the 16th, 17th, 18th and 19th years of age, who are Norwegian citizens, born and raised here, are compulsorily renunciated with cousins or others from their country of origin who are the father of the family. In particular, it has been documented from Pakistan, from a place called Little Norway, because parts of the population have moved to Norway. This has aroused very strong reactions. But so far, it seems that only the Progress Party will do something about this problem, and try to counteract and prevent this with forced marriage. Of course, young men who are young are also clearly told to marry the parent. It is an unculture, a culture that we should not accept in Norway and that the Progress Party has warned against for many years. Proposal No. 4 will solve large parts of this problem. It sounds like this: ‘The budget asks the Government to work actively to counter forcible marriages, inter alia, by introducing requirements on dependability and sound housing as conditions for granting residence permits and residence permits in Norway for foreign spouses.’ This means that if this is true of a young girl in Norway, she must be able to have her own home, suitable for a married couple, and she must have work income to support her spouse. In the vast majority of cases, these young women/girls are unable to do so. They live at home with their parents, and it is before they have entered into an employment income situation that the forced marriage is carried out. And when we know – at least I am relatively convinced of it – that the main purpose is to really help a male Pakistani to obtain a residence, residence and work permit in Norway, and when it cannot be implemented before she disposes of her own housing and labour income, yes, then the main reason for implementing the marriage is gone, because then the foreign spouse will not receive a residence and residence permit in Norway. Then this is no longer an entrance ticket so that you can avoid the stoppage of immigration for healthy, working people in Little Norway. It actually puts an end to the possibility that, in particular, fathers can sell their daughters in a way that allows others to enter Norway and have the opportunity to live and work to return money to their home country. This is a very well-worked proposal. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to put in place a control system in order to clarify that it is not an illegal periodicity when applying for a residence permit and visa for a foreign spouse and, if necessary, to provide a good legal basis for refusing visas and residence permits for foreign spouses in the event of forced marriage.’ It is mainly a system that – as far as I know – has been practised in Denmark in approx. one year, with relatively good results. When a foreigner applies for a residence, residence and visa because he has married a Danish citizen – in our case there will be a Norwegian citizen – a good deal of questions are asked where it is obvious that if these people who have married have not known each other for a long time, it can be revealed, in this way, that they may not have met before marriage. This is done in Denmark, and this has, as far as I know, been radically reduced as a result of the introduction of control mechanisms. The Minister of Justice has stated that forced marriage is illegal already under Norwegian law. If you remove the possibility of having a stay and a visa to Norway by reuniting with a spouse in the case of forced marriage, you will also remove another possibility that is currently being abused. These two proposals would minimize this problem which everyone in this House claims they are shocked by.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e291	It's through the work we create values. It is obvious to each and every one that income comes through work. But so is society. It is through the values created by work that we can further expand the country, partly through the creation of real values such as bricks and cement, but also partly by the fact that the state receives tax revenues that enable it to solve new welfare tasks. On the way into a new century, it is important to point to two key challenges facing us as a nation. First, we are in the happy situation that more and more people experience getting older. However, it confronts society with major challenges in the form of increased pension payments and an increased need for welfare services for the elderly. This will happen at the same time as the petroleum revenues are expected to decrease. We must equip ourselves to meet this challenge, among other things. by adding to it essential parts of the large petroleum revenues that we now have. However, we can only meet this challenge if we manage to generate growth in those parts of Norwegian business that are not based on petroleum. This coincides with the second challenge: we are facing a world with great changes, rapid changes, constant changes, a world where distance means less than before, where trade is global, a world where traditional advantage as access to land means less than before, and where human knowledge means more and more – new knowledge, ever new knowledge. We need to get ready to meet these challenges. We need to strengthen our ability to meet a new time. Firstly, we need to create a stable and sustainable economic environment for long-term value creation and full employment. The solidarity option provided the basis for a strengthening of the Norwegian economy, for lower price increases, higher employment and lower unemployment. The solidarity option must be further developed through binding interactions between employers, employees and the state. In particular, it is important to strengthen the skills of the unemployed in relation to job opportunities. Secondly, we must bet on knowledge. Governments of the Workers' Party have made a major contribution to improving education: the development of pre-school provision, early school start, ten-year primary school, the right to three years of secondary education and the strong strengthening of the provision of university and higher education. Now it's time to put quality in school more in focus. At the same time, we need to take a new major educational commitment through a wide-ranging continuing training reform that will increase the opportunity to meet the demands of new and changed knowledge. Such a reform must be a central element in the development of the solidarity option. We need to strengthen research efforts, we need to apply new technologies, but we also need to add new knowledge to traditional industries. Remember, the aquaculture industry may be our most research-based industry. A third important element is that we must seek to reduce the disadvantages of lying on the edge of the markets. It requires efforts to reduce business transport costs. The Labour Party believes that there is reason to increase the state’s investment both in roads and in ports. This, however, opens up new technologies for new opportunities. The development of information and communication technologies brings us into a new era, where distances mean less, where the impossible has become possible and where society changes. This raises at least two challenges. Firstly, an important framework condition for the development and investment of the information and communication technology industry is the organisation of telecommunications market regulation to stimulate innovation, innovation and forward-looking investment in Norway. Lately opening up new technological solutions will also prevent early investment in new technologies, while regulation that is forward-looking and opens up to the latest in technology will enable investment and competence to seek out where new opportunities are put into effect. Therefore, telecommunications regulation itself becomes an important competitive factor between countries that want to attract forward-looking activities. The Labour Party is concerned that Norwegian telecommunications regulation does not provide the necessary incentive for technological development today. The Labour Party sees it as an objective for the Norwegian authorities to facilitate forward-looking telecommunications regulation and thereby stimulate telecommunications operators to innovation, development and investment in Norway. We therefore ask the Government to follow this up through the rapid adjustment of the regulatory regime. In this context, it is of course important that the management is constantly in line with future technological developments and has an active interaction with the actors. Secondly, the Labour Party wants Norway to be at the forefront of technological development, and we want everyone to take part in development. We want to use the new technological innovations to improve human well-being. We will use the technology to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. We want to use the technology to reduce distances, to reduce the distance constraints that not least District Norway has always had to deal with. Norway must then be in the forefront of development. The State Secretary Committee for Information Technology of the Labour Party Government decided that Norway should be the first international in the use of information technology to increase value creation. It concerns both the public sector, the private sector and their interaction. Our wealth will increasingly depend on our ability to create and produce the content of the information society's products and services, along with our ability to exploit information technology to develop existing industries and products. The working party will ensure all knowledge of the information and communication technology. We want to refresh the data training in school. Knowledge of the use of information technology shall be acquired by any person who so requests. That's why we want to ensure all access to the machines, we want to stimulate the purchase of computers in primary school, we want to upgrade the public libraries as information banks for everyone in the community. The working party will ensure all equivalent access to the network connecting machines and information. The Labour Party believes that all households and businesses throughout the country should be guaranteed the possibility of connecting to a telecommunications network with sufficient capacity to make use of ever-new possibilities for electronic communications. In short, everyone must be able to connect to a high-speed network. It was all the more surprising that the government, during the examination of a case concerning this in the Stortinget, recently stated that it did not need any state intervention for forced development. In the view of the Government, the telecommunications market operators were able to offer the necessary capacity on a commercial basis. The Labour Party does not agree. The Labour Party therefore believes that we need a clearer social commitment, a clearer social governance to ensure that all households and businesses across the country have access to the new opportunities. This is one of the most important development tasks facing Norwegian society. The Labour Party therefore believes that we need to introduce universal service through the terms of the concession to network operators with significant market power, and we believe that the offer must be given at prices that are as similar as possible in all parts of the country. That is why we believe that a system of maximum prices should also be introduced for high-speed services. I do not conceal that in the Workers' Party we were surprised and disappointed that in June the Centre Parties and the Right voted against the Workers' Party and the SV's proposal to use such instruments. However, we have noted with interest that the new Deputy Minister of State seems to have a more offensive view of these issues than his colleagues in the Ministry of Transport. The working party will therefore contribute to the re-evaluation of this issue and in a broader context. In the debate earlier today, the Socialist Left has made it clear that they are behind such a wish. It is therefore my hope that the leader of the Central Party still stands by his views and visions from the election campaign. In that case, there is hope of having a majority in the Grand Duchy for a promise that is superfluous to meet the challenges we face at the start of the new century.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e325	As far as the President is aware, we have no Secretary of State here in this country, neither new nor old. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e330	Schjött-Pedersen looked very much into the need for investment and development in District Norway, and not least about the need to facilitate industries other than the petroleum industry, to develop the whole country and to make use of the whole country. I also noticed that Schjött-Pedersen earlier today regretted that the Government and the Right had torpedoed the Workers' Party and SV's proposal for a nationwide high-speed digital network. I think this must be due to a great misunderstanding. If you check back today and see what is happening in this sector, I think the Norwegian people and Norwegian taxpayers have good reason to rejoice that the Labour Party's proposal was voted down. Today, for example, we see NERA is out with a solution where new technology, satellite communications, also take on what is going on in digital TV, which is a technology with nationwide impact and that can be delivered at a price that is down to a third of the Workers' Party's supply. When Schjøtt-Pedersen is also concerned about the need to invest more in the transport sector, I have to say that this reminds me a lot of the man who sold the knit for meters. When Schjøtt-Pedersen has financed his Oslo package, which was estimated at around 40 billion kroner, when the opera solution in Bjørvika is financed, and not least when Hedstrom and Opseth's cong idea of the state capitalist investment in Fornebu is realized, how much does Schjøtt-Pedersen think it's left to develop the rest of the country for?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e341	I think it is important to first establish that the decisive difference between the proposal promoted by the Workers' Party and the SV in ours, and the voting and proposals of the Right and Government Parties, was that the Workers' Party and the SV wanted to introduce universal service and maximum price, while the other parties wanted to assess it. And that's as you know a big difference in considering taking the dishes and actually doing it. The Workers' Party did not base any technological choices on the proposal promoted by the Workers' Party and the SV. We did that on the basis of a recognition that it must necessarily be assessed by the actors, that is not our task to do. The representative here referred to in respect of recordings, among others. of NERA, of course, is interesting, while we have to recognise that there is a difference between digital TV and digital telephone lines, simply because the mutual capacity here is somewhat different. But here, technological developments have to be exploited, and then my most important point is that this is not a question we can leave to the market alone, simply because we have no certainty through the market that we have the overall national concerns that lie here. That is why I welcome the initiative expressed by the President of the Centre Party – and the Deputy Prime Minister – and therefore invite you to discuss that issue again. Then I register the representative of Kristiansen's assessment of transportation measures in the capital area. Firstly, the representative of the Workers' Party has never given an opinion on the size. But it would be interesting to hear the representative of Kristiansen on behalf of the Right saying whether the Right is against Oslopakt 2, whether the Right is against the Drama package, whether the Right is against the Eastfold package, or whether the Right is against an expansion of the E18 between Oslo and Asker, as the Right has actually committed itself clearly in favour of the past. If the Right is against any of those projects, it will be of great interest to get it notified. Then it will involve a significant change in relation to Right's previous vision, and in that case maybe the representative will be more able to beat himself on the chest, as he did here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e354	Schjøtt-Pedersen came with many fine words and beautiful promises about IT, computer equipment for schools, etc., and I can agree with much of what he said, and the intention in it. On the other hand, I have very doubts as to how he intends to finance this, and as to whether he will govern this through public governance. I'm not so sure that public governance is the right way to do it. He mentioned very little, I think – and it was a little surprising to me – about this with transportation. He was so much in the process of increasing investment to the roads. I guess that's pretty much what he said. He may have mentioned to a greater extent that this should happen to District Norway – and that is what he thought. We know that most people here in Norway live in the Oslofjord region. We know that the Workers' Party has for decades neglected the development of E6 and E18, which are the most trafficked roads we have here in Norway and the most victims. Still, there is little investment in this from the Government, but this is something it has inherited from the Labour Party government. That is why I would like to ask Schjøtt-Pedersen: what requirements will they make in the government negotiations on trade? And what increases have they added to E18 and E6 around Oslofjord?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e363	The Workers' Party and the SV's proposal for the development of telecommunications involve the inclusion in the concession terms of companies with a dominant market position of a universal service requirement of high-speed telephone services. So there's no cost to the state. There is a requirement that, in order to operate telecommunications in Norway, responsibility for developing this type of high-speed service must also be taken on board, in line with today's requirement, for example. has a view to providing so-called ISDN solutions. So to the question of transportation. No, I mentioned no amount in my post, naturally enough. This is not a financial debate, and we will certainly have ample opportunity to discuss both figures and other sizes in the many financial and budgetary debates that we will have in the future. What is known, however, is that the Labour Party has stated that increases in both road and port are desirable. Let me confine myself to that in this context. However, I did not express myself in one word about the distribution in relation to the question of transport needs. Here we know that there are different challenges in different parts of the country. It is, however, the case that the Workers' Group, known as the Workers' Group, has had a sample of work that has assessed the transport challenges in the capital area. This sample has made it clear that there is a need to take substantial ups in the area around the capital, but the individual elements involved in this possible bet, I thought it was relatively broad agreement. That was also the reason why I was so surprised that a spokesperson from the Right to disagree with the elements of this. Let me also make it clear that the Workers' Group has been among those who have been clear and offensive in order to open up toll financing for E18 through Westfold. We stand by that. We believe it is important to develop the offer in that area, where unfortunately there are significant queue problems. We need to find a solution to such queue problems.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e376	The representative Schjött-Pedersen asked questions about the Right is against the different packages. They have many of these packages in common that they often appear just ahead of the choice. I think most people will be familiar with the fact that if the bulk of the population had followed Right-wing proposals on transportation, one would have come quite far with several of the projects that Schjøtt-Pedersen framed. It might be interesting to ask a rhetorical question: would the Workers' Party consider the solution that the Right has launched, such as: is on private funding for a number of vital road ejaculations, such as: Mr Schjøtt-Pedersen has also mentioned by name in the debate? So a little bit back to this with a nationwide digital high-speed network. I can assure the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen that the Right has exactly the same ambitions in this area that I think everyone else has. However, neither Schjøtt-Pedersen nor the head of the Senterpartien house could have gone past the fact that even one was out pointing to the actor, who would perform this job and have responsibility. The concept of governance was also mentioned, and Telenor was mentioned by name. That someone has been against separating parts of Telenor and selling this, but is not against using the revenues, is another matter. However, they must be given a light when they see that there is an EU requirement for Telenor to separate the cable division if the merger with Swedish Telia is to be approved. Finally, there are some in the debate who have claimed that the Right is walking around like a sloppy friar. I think if you look at the Right People these days, no one can reasonably claim anything like that. But if someone in the Right was to look relatively tired at the moment, it's quite simply for the reason that the Right doesn't like partner change – that would have to be the only reason if someone looked a little tired.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e387	First, the development of the telecommunications network. The Workers' Party has not mentioned the name of companies in its comments and debates, but we have said that companies with dominant market positions should be subject to such concession terms. And so it is that there are companies with dominant market positions that have concession terms according to the government's own arrangement, and Telenor is a company that is in such a position. Telenor is the dominant player in this field, and it is not unreasonable for them to be subject to such conditions. So the representative of Kristiansen's question about private financing of the road. No, the Labour Party is not open to private financing of the road – in the sense of private commercial financing. Why aren't we? We are open to funding through toll companies, etc., as we have been involved in many contexts. But why not private funding? Quite simply because the country does not have a financial problem. That's not the dilemma. These include: a cyclical problem, such as the question of how much to finance, inter alia. purpose of transport. In order to have private solutions, it means that there is a more expensive solution because private companies borrow more expensively than the state does, and it makes the expansion more expensive, as well as the demand for returns for private investors. So finally, the question of right-wing proposals on road. Yes, it is true that both the Right Party and the Advance Party initially have proposals for higher appropriations both for road and for some purposes other than that. The working party has. However, it is also the case that the Right and Advance Party have voted for two years in favour of budgetary solutions which have had a lower framework for the purpose of transport than the Workers' Party has actually had, and the Right voted last year for lower investment on roads than the Workers' Party has assumed, because they supported a negotiating arrangement which had a lower framework. So it was not the case that the right in these negotiations increased road investment. Then we'll see what might be the result of the negotiations that might take place this year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e396	Replicate cord shift is over
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e399	When U.S. former President Jimmy Carter last Monday held Johan Jørgen Holst Memorial in Oslo, he talked about the most important challenge in the next millennium, namely to close the gap between poor and rich in the world. He encouraged us to see our responsibility to give everyone the opportunity to improve their own situation. People will resort to violence when they are not satisfied with their basic needs. We see many examples of that today. Poverty is direct violence against human rights. Article 1 of the Declaration on Human Rights states that all humans are born to the same human dignity. As one of the richest countries in the world, Norway has a great responsibility for strengthening international solidarity. It is therefore gratifying that the Government is presenting an escalating plan for development assistance against 1 pst. of GNI. It shows that the government has visions for a solidarity world and sets itself clear goals. The People's Action "La Africa Live" delivered on 27 September a call to the Norwegian authorities to put Africa's situation on the agenda of the international community. Africa is rich in human and cultural values. But wars and conflicts are on the continent, and 14 million people are on the run. The movement of people «La Africa live» will focus on the suffering and ask why so few care when this continent bleeds. Why is everyone so quiet, asked an African pastor when he was in Norway. Don't forget us, said women from Congo who visited the Storting yesterday. Do human rights have a skin color? The downpours of colonial power remain, as the pursuit of Africa's natural resources, looting and slave trade belonged to today's order. We have to leave the indifference. A renewed focus on Africa and the poorest is necessary. Conflicts and disasters in the Balkans or elsewhere must not cause us to forget the constant distress in Africa. For the Christian People's Party, therefore, it is a main priority that aid should be directed at the poorest in Africa. Poverty-related assistance is also women-oriented assistance. 70 pst. Of the poorest are women. It turns out that aid directed at these bears rich fruits. World Bank figures show that the most profitable investment in the poorest countries is education for women. This has caught up with young people in Norway, and in the autumn, Operation dagsverk for education for girls in developing countries. You train a woman, you train an entire family. A comprehensive and powerful southern policy means more than aid crowns. For our poorest co-operative countries, large amounts of debt are a prerequisite for development. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the Norwegian debt plan is being followed up to give more of our cooperating countries better framework conditions. And as the Prime Minister said this morning, Norway is all a country of the past in debt. We still have to hold on to this claim. Many countries are now coming up with plans for debt cancellation, and we are seeing results. We are part of an ever-increasing global movement that is working to change this unreasonable and impossible starting point for development in poor countries. Jubilee 2000 has brought together thousands of people around the world into churches, trade unions, organisations and research institutions, which affect the authorities to cancel their debts. The opportunities of an increasingly open world economy must also benefit the poor countries. The Christian People's Party wants to facilitate customs duties on industrial products from developing countries in order to increase trade with the South, and we are pleased that the Government has proposed this. Norway also has an important role to play in the forthcoming WTO negotiations. The Christian People's Party wants Norway to be an active driver to improve developing countries' trading conditions. We have heard the leader of the Progress Party be concerned that his party is the only thing that was concerned about Norwegian interests. I'll remind you that when 1 pst. Of our national revenues, we still have 99 pst. once again to apply to ourselves. Reports from the World Bank show that aid benefits: 30 million people are lifted out of absolute poverty every year. And on the threshold of a new millennium, the Christian People's Party believes that stepping up development aid is necessary to help solve the poverty problems, which is the greatest threat our planet faces today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e421	When I went to school, I learned that we were 4 billion people on Earth. Yesterday, however, the world’s citizen came no. 6 000 000 000 to the world. And symbolically, a newborn boy in Bosnia's capital, Sarajevo, was selected to be exactly a world citizen no. 6,000,000. It reminds us of at least three main challenges, first the many conflicts around the world that destroy the lives of thousands of people and cause insane suffering to ordinary people, as the people of Sarajevo have suffered. World citizen No. 6,000,000 reminds us in addition that most of the world's citizens live in poverty, as the previous speaker described with experience. He also reminds us that the destruction of the Earth by humans threatens the livelihood of many of these 6 billion people. And we're all obliged to raise our eyes more in the daily political work, both to raise it more than our own country's borders and to raise it further in time. We haven't been good enough there in the last few years. The entrance to the new century is a good opportunity to lift heavy lids. The recent great explosion in the world's information flow was to make it clear that the look was rising. The same applies to the technological revolution that has contributed to the world being much smaller than a few years ago. Land borders have been wiped out in many ways, but the policy has not been fully integrated. Internationalization can be the same or not, but it is in any case not possible to reverse it. The challenges call for policy to address them. We see that the man-made environmental damage does not know national boundaries. It is industry and consumption in the rich western countries that contribute to the bulk of pollution, but it is the poor areas that are hardest hit by natural disasters. It's a serious warning that at the brink of this century we've beat all kinds of records in extreme weather. We must be even more offensive in the fight for sustainable development. I think it is alarming that the topic is hardly affected in the debate on the throne, and that the Minister for the Environment of the Government has not even spoken in this century's last debate on the throne. We see that violent conflicts go much less between nations and more closely follow ethnic dividing lines across borders. And so refugee flows, distress and poverty also flow across borders. Norway has got a name for itself as a peacemaker, but we need to get a lot better at getting into the conflicts earlier, preventing the fighting before they break out. And here we have a huge challenge in using the United Nations systems much more effectively and concretely than today, as well as developing further tools in the United Nations. Nor can we allow ourselves to continue stamping in too poor, fragile solutions to the insurmountable debt of poor countries to rich countries. The really great and serious crime that is moving across borders also requires much better cooperation than we have today. Interpol is okay, but by its very nature is far from effective enough. The EU Europol is recently established and is likely to be more effective in dealing with the problems Europe is facing. As a foreign country, Norway has currently no access, but hopefully we will be able to do so through a future agreement with EU countries. It is equally important to do something about the cause of this crime, for example, to take into account the fact that large-scale production of drugs is possible because many poor farmers have no alternative and are also threatened by various armed groups running away with the high profits. Fortunately, it is not just undesirable factors that move across borders easily. Trade and cooperation between countries are the best means of maintaining peace. Capital flows across borders only at a key pressure, and whatever the attitude towards EU membership, that is something we have to deal with. The EEA Agreement has already changed its overall form. We must not assume that we put Norwegian companies and financial institutions in a worse position than the non-residents through regulations and requirements. On the contrary, we need to make it attractive to operate in Norway. It benefits consumers, and not least it gives us jobs. Ensuring work for people will also be necessary in order to maintain our welfare society in the future. We need to look ahead more and use more imagination to ensure, among other things. the pension payments expected in the next generation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e442	In this century we have been through an era of vast expansion of hydropower and an industrial development as a result of it. There has been a significant contributor to value creation and welfare in Norway. On the threshold of a new century, it is legitimate to ask the questions: what are we going to live on? How are we going to use our resource base? And not least, how are we going to further develop what is created? Our possibilities are significant. Firstly, within the maritime and petroleum industry, we have built up a competence and provided us with a technological foundation that is at the forefront in the international context. Then we have a wealth of energy that others can only dream of. With just one pst. of the population of Western Europe, Norway accounts for almost one third of hydropower production, almost half of gas reserves and three quarters of oil reserves. Our natural resources and our competence should indicate that we had similar high ambitions, but I have great problems seeing what the Government has in terms of energy policy, except that more windmills are to be built and invested in an increase. It seems like it's almost become a goal in itself that we're going to build windmills. Yes, at least this is how the Minister for the Environment must be interpreted when she rejects so-called pollution-free gas power plants because they could distort the windmills. I have to say that nothing would have been better than if so-called pollution-free gas power plants could push the windmills, so that we wouldn't get them in a line from Lindesnes to Kirkenes. It is a major paradox that the Government, with an environmental policy justification, proposes that Norway import more and more polluting coal power from Denmark. In the Energy Communication, the Government proposes that Norway, as the richest energy nation in Western Europe, should be the net importer of energy by 2020. The reason is that the Government has designed a contrast between environmental responsibility and industrial development. Such a contrast does not exist. Therefore, it should be possible to bring together the political environment that Norway should be a leading European energy nation. Yes, from a 20-year perspective, we should be able to become a significant exporter of environmentally friendly power. But such goals and ambitions require an offensive strategy. Business has long called for such a strategy. The right has done the same thing. We have gas, we have competence. If Stortinget says yes to gas power plants, we can create a new industrial era while taking environmental responsibility. In a short time, the Stortinget will deal with both the Energy Communication and the Right’s proposals on how to build gas power plants while at the same time respecting Norway’s obligations under the Kyoto Agreement. If we are to realise the possibility of further processing the gas in Norway, the Workers' Party must cut through. We have recorded that the Workers' Party has signalled clear support for the construction of gas power plants in Norway at election meetings, conferences and not least the local press in Trøndelag. The party's vice-leader, Jens Stoltenberg, even went so far as to say in Trønder-Avisa on 21 August 1999 that he guarantees a majority of gas power plants in the processing of the energy message. But can we trust the Workers' Party when it comes down to it? In the spring, there was a strong focus on the framework conditions on the base. The price of oil was low, investment estimates fell, the situation in the supplier industry was critical. Then the Workers' Party's leadership traveled the coast with high cigarette leadership and promised improvements in the framework conditions. But when Stortinget was to conclude, it was quiet from the Workers' Party's side. It was not possible to bring the Workers' Party into line with a percentage reduction in the CO2 tax. It was museum silence from the Workers' Party. The question now raised by many is whether it will be equally raised by the Workers' Party when the Stortinget is going to deal with the issue of the construction of gas power stations, or whether one is now thinking of cutting through and going with the Right to enable gas power plants to be realized in Norway. If we do that, we will provide a good basis for combining our resource, the gas, with our competence and ensuring value creation and well-being far into the next century.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e463	While the Storting has debated the census, one of the world's most troubled subcontinents has become even more uncertain and unpredictable. The military coup in the nuclear power of Pakistan in the last 24 hours increases the threat of nuclear war in Kashmir and demands international commitment to create peace in an area marked by hatred, terrorism and not least glowing nationalism. The need to ratify the probationary agreement in the U.S. Senate is becoming even more urgent. Increasingly, we experience ethnic conflicts and civil wars based on religious and ethnic differences. Of 101 armed conflicts in the period 1989-1996, there were only six wars between individual states. The ethnic conflicts are re-extinguishing at uneven intervals, and the conflict lines are constantly changing. This development represents completely different challenges for the world society than those that occurred in the first ten years after World War II. And the UN, which was formed almost in the smoke from the ruins of the post-war war to prevent war between nations, has problems in being powerful and finding organizational forms and instruments within the existing UN Charter. It is also against this hindrance that we need to understand the violent growth in the share of our aid budget that emergency aid and humanitarian aid gradually represent. It is also important here to understand the link between humanitarian aid and longer-term development assistance, not to mention the link between aid and international trade and between aid and North-South policy. A functioning business and agriculture in developing countries is a prerequisite for development. At the same time, functioning administrations and a welfare state are needed as infrastructure for just private investment. Today, I have had visits from the Embassy of Botswana and representatives from Namibia on market access for meat products from southern Africa. They strongly warn against the introduction of a so-called auctioning principle for foreign imports, which they claim tends to lead to the buying-in of auctions from domestic producers – which are therefore not allowed to be imported. I would also like to remind you that, in front of the new round of WTO negotiations, the European Union is in favour of full customs freedom for all products from the so-called MUL countries, i.e. the least developed countries. The government has raised the human rights tab high, and we support that. I want to ask that there be increased emphasis on all the grotesque violations of human rights for women that we see around the world. For too long, we have accepted that male elites use culture and religion as grounds for discrimination against women, whether they be forced marriages, circumcisions, the criminalisation of abortions or the imposition of veils. Today, in the international community, the situation of women in Afghanistan is at the forefront of what should be sought. Not only are they subjected to bestial abuses, they are denied basic rights as a right to medical care, education and work — everything based on culture and religion — and it is totally unacceptable that the international community does nothing about this situation. But human rights can never be culturally related. The biggest misappropriation committed by Norwegian aid workers and all other aid workers over 20 years is precisely to silence assaults on women of fear of being labeled as cultural imperialists. But it's about human society's social control of women and not culture. That kind of social control must be combated in all cultures. This also applies here in Norway. Finally, Norwegian girls, born in Norway, with Norwegian citizenship, are entitled to Norwegian legal protection based on Norwegian norms and laws. It is high time we developed concrete measures and any legislative changes against forced marriages and marriages arranged against the will of the girls. It will also come back to the working party women in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e489	The low turnout of the harvest gives cause for reflection and self-search for us politicians. Are these too many broken promises? Are we overly anxious to appear to be the big winner? Have the parties become too equal and ideology erased? Or have we got it so well in this country that people don't have anything important to fight for anymore? Fortunately, we know that incredible things can happen if enthusiasm is used as a driving force. And this is the main challenge: to raise awareness and inspire the country's citizens to take an active part in the social debate. There is undoubtedly a job to do in each party, but also in common. Work to preserve the basis of life on earth, peace and human rights and reconciliation between peoples requires long-term, broad-sightedness and solidarity that goes beyond group solidarity. The desire for justice must extend beyond our own social strata and our own borders. If we are to succeed in this work, we are dependent on the response of the people. Increasing differences between people are not the result of coincidences, but are the result of political choices. Economic growth can reduce poverty but can also create losers as a result of the adaptations that growth requires. The relocation from the districts and from northern Norway is not a new date. Long-term birth surpluses have overshadowed the fact that districts have born and educated young people for business and development in other parts of the country. The coincidence in time of declining birth rates, structural measures and conversions in public and private activities has negatively affected the districts. In addition, major efforts are being made in more central areas, especially in the eastern region, which is also expensive in terms of the centre structure and problems for the press areas. Workplaces, capital and power need to be more decentralised. Furthermore, commitment to women, competences and communication is crucial for sustainable development. In the districts, culture, nature and industry are often closely interwoven. Therefore, local involvement in the design and management of environmental and natural resource policies is important. And I'm glad that the government has implemented measures to ensure more local anchoring of the management of predatory game. Moreover, if the off-road industries are to continue to exist around the country, it is essential that the populations of the different predators are not larger than the control of the negative effects. Doing something about the moving flow is a difficult but important process. Not only to reduce problems for the press but also in terms of well-being and living conditions, resource use and value creation, social identity and cultural diversity. State instruments can help promote the development of a competitive business regionally and make districts a real alternative for both business and housing. Enterprises must be able to compete on the basis of the benefits they derive from being in a district — for example by being close to resources. And maybe in Norway we can be just as good at taking advantage of legal arrangements in the EEA area as we are to follow up the restrictions that apply. Local business, non-governmental organisations, county municipalities and municipalities are all key actors that need to be ensured space for action and good framework conditions. For the municipalities of North Norway, the price adjustment of the Nord-Norway grant is Kjærkoment. A service offer that is equivalent to the rest of the country is essential to ensure its settlement. And in the area of health and care services, important considerations are taken into account in the implementation of the action plans for elderly care, psychiatry, cancer treatment and hospital equipment. This bet is a historic promise that we're all happy about and maybe a little proud of. To have the security that one gets the help one needs when the need is there is essential. The development of care homes versus nursing homes should be followed. Perhaps people should be encouraged to invest more in their own nursing homes. Older people are a heterogeneous group, with different resources and different needs. Very many have good health and great human resources. It is important that these resources are valued and used, for example: through a softer working line and greater flexibility in the pension system. Older people are also an important resource for contact and cooperation across generations and through volunteer centres. We need generations that care about each other. The care and help we give each other in family, circle of friends and neighborhoods carries important values in them. This human proximity is difficult to replace by paid public efforts and is a necessary foundation in a solidarity society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e510	We're now on the doorstep of a new century, and it's natural to look back, as you look forward to it. By the last century it was poverty and distress, the working environment was not yet on the agenda to any particular extent, and the collective agreements were in the cast. Right after the turn of the century, there was a big man named Peder Hansen. He said a part of the Stortinget about the conditions that existed in the labour market at the time, among others. on over-work by having to work several days and nights continuously and the health impact it entailed. He also expressed the insecurity of older workers by the fact that the Association repeatedly said it was to be taken in younger ones who would take over the work of the elderly, so that these became redundant. And there was not yet any social safety net to care for the superfluous. The construction of the welfare state of this century and the development of laws and agreements provide greater security. But still, there is an attack on the goods that have been obtained, and the class divisions that have been tempered. And new differences have arisen. We are concerned about this and should take a closer look at the treatment of the dither message. In the throne, it was said: «The government is committed to further strengthening cooperation in the labour market in order to maintain the high level of employment.» And on the other hand, ‘An action plan for continuing training will be completed in consultation with the social partners.’ Then we thought that the agreements that were signed and signed would be respected. But it's not like that. Already in the next year’s national budget, the Government has called for a tightening of today’s contractual pension. When it is proposed that AFP pensioners no longer receive pension credits during the time they are on this scheme, when the AFP supplement is taxed and any contribution pensions are deducted from the pension, this is contrary to agreements concluded. The AFP is one of the most important reforms LO has fought in recent decades, and the impact of it made it possible to accept for very moderate wage settlements at times this was important for the country’s economy. This has greatly improved our competitiveness, and in addition, many of those who are currently receiving the AFP would not be able to work at the ordinary retirement age, but instead would be disqualified. Attacking the AFP is starting at the wrong end. The big challenge in a new century is the heavy burden that many people face that makes them disapprove. 25 000 receive AFP, while 270 000 receive disability benefit. In the new century, active work needs to be done on the work environment, on the organisation of work and on rehabilitation, as has been said in Stortinget in the treatment of several action plans and plans for escalation. Depriving AFP pensioners of the right to pension credits causes them to lose an average of NOK 10000 per year. years when they become retirement pensioners. This is creating new class divisions. Many professions have other agreed pension schemes that ensure a 66 pst. of full wages and salaries as a retired person. Those who are excluded are ‘people on the floor’, who have often started early in working life and have had physically hard jobs. It is important that the agreements concluded are respected in retrospect. That is why the Workers' Party wants the AFP to be continued in line with what has been agreed. In a new century, we must show responsibility for what we have committed ourselves to, and the Government must also be loyal to the binding agreements that are signed. Otherwise, we can get back class divisions that have been removed throughout the century that we are now in the process of getting behind us.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e540	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e543	The debate on the throne has undoubtedly been marked by the convergence between the government parties and the Workers' Party on next year's budget. Not unexpectedly, the government parties are trying with the Prime Minister at the head to produce this so that there has been a change of attitude in the Workers' Party in terms of cash support, and that we now accept it. The correct thing is that we are willing to vote in favour of the cash support if it can help distort the policy in other areas in our direction. Cash support is and becomes a pointless use of money, and I'm horrified when I think about what we could achieve for the 3 billion per. years to solve the problems we face, for example. the schoolwork. Imagine if we had used these funds strategically in order to prevent drug abuse among young people, and violence and drug abuse! After a few years society would get the money back in terms of saving repair costs. As little as it is right to blackmail the situation in Norway, there is reason for a beauty painting that conceals the negative. We have little problems compared to almost any country, but we have some powerful shadow pages that appear to be increasingly maligned with a rich welfare society. One of these is all the homeless and those who are struggling with drug problems without getting help to get out of the hell they live in. Many of them are on the streets of the richest country in the world. The Prime Minister said in his speech that the world needs ‘a solidarity Norway’. I agree. However, Norway is not alone able to ensure solidarity across the globe. That we're increasing u-help by some tenths of a percent, isn't much to hit the chest for. What we can do, however, is show up as an example for other nations. Then we have to put the idea of solidarity into life in our own country, and then, of course, we should make sure to invest our oil money abroad on the basis of the desire to promote a development that goes in the right direction. It is hoped that we will be able to work together in the context of the anti-sampling message, which is the strongest argument for my support for the forthcoming negotiations. Then I'm also told that we have to vote for a total of NOK 3 billion to be used in a senseless way. Because in today's political situation it is only through cooperation with the Centre that the Workers' Party can achieve results in this area. The right hand party and the Progress Party shall not be allowed to make the premise. The negative, not to say partially contemptible, the mention of our equalization requirements in several of the posts from the right-hand side confirms this. I hope that we do not get a discussion about who is to blame when dealing with the adversarial message. The important thing is that a majority is willing to take responsibility for doing something that really suits our fellows.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e556	The debate of the throne is the debate of the opposition, so I'm not going to try to characterize it or sum it up. It is not easy to sum up, either, as there have been many different themes that have been addressed during these two days. On the other hand, I would like to comment on the proposals tabled by Mr Hagen on behalf of the Progress Party. With regard to his first two proposals, I would like to ask that they be sent to the Financial Committee for consideration. Both proposals deal with the issues included in the State budget, and proposal No. 2 has even direct budgetary implications for the next year. With regard to proposals Nos. 3-7, it's saying that the premises on which those proposals are based, we disagree, and we're going to go against this. We then recommend, on behalf of the centre parties, the form of treatment that I have expressed here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e565	When I just heard Steensnæs, I got the impression that this debate had nothing to do with him, because this was the opposition's debate. In many ways it has also shaped the efforts of the government parties in this debate. There aren't many people who have spoken about the throne, and for good reason. I must say that this debate has not removed the doubts that have been raised in more articles about where the Government wants to go and what it wants. A little has been prepared during this debate. Now Steensnæs has been met a number of times with its old definition of centre profile, namely that it ‘is neither quantifiable nor exemplified’, and I believe in many ways that this has been made clear in this debate as well. Now, however, I am aware that Steensnæs gets both hurt and listed when we quote this again, and I'm therefore going to offer myself to put this quote aside in favor of his new definition of what center policy is, as it turned out in the line of Per-Kristian Foss. For this morning he said it like this: ‘It is such that alternating cooperation is not a wing, but an expression that the central policy is placed both to the left and to the right for us, and that we are seeking opportunities to achieve both.’ You can do that on your own. Then there is another question that is also on my mind, because Valgerd Svarstad Haugland – where she must be now – has today given an interview in the newspaper. However, she said today, also in a line change, that she did not recognize herself in the record given in the newspaper. But when we read what she said in the line, she confirmed in many ways what she said in the newspaper. Therefore, the question to her – if she had been here – is whether she knew herself again, because in reality she is blocking possible cooperation. Then there are questions about whether the Prime Minister knows her — at least she disappoints bourgeois voters. Otherwise, I have to say that this debate, which has been very much concerned with distribution, has little to do with how the distribution is to be carried out. What has been the most important issue for the Workers' Party and the government parties, they have said little about how to do it. But there is a strategy to provide opportunities, to invest in education, to invest in creating jobs, to provide tax relief for those who have the lowest income, and to raise them at the bottom. Here it will be possible to agree with the Right. So instead you want to think about things that can quickly get the value creation of society too close, and that's the wrong way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e581	I would like to be allowed to reply to the parliamentary leader of the government parties, Mr President. Steensnæs, who said that our first two proposals were under consideration in relation to the budget in the Committee on Budgets. I can see that perhaps one of them has a connection to the budget, but there is no legislative amendment to ensure low-paid entitlement to sickness pay from 1 January 2000, because it has to be incorporated into the legislation. It's to get the government to make what our bill is being promoted, to get work going and get it moving and to clarify the real content. However, with regard to the first proposal on the legislation and guidelines for the regulation of the basic amount of public interest, there is no budgetary matter. The basic amount of social security is regulated in the context of social security and, in the event that it is included in any reserve item in the State budget. It's not in the budget now. However, the guidelines impose a position on the Government when it comes to regulating the basic amount of social security provision. The guidelines themselves were being discussed in the context of social security settlements last spring, and we made a proposal for new guidelines. What has happened in the meantime is that the Workers' Party has suddenly come up with different ideas than they were then, because then they voted against the guidelines we wanted, and agreed that the basic amount should be regulated around – i.e. approximately – based on income trends. They've changed their mind about that. That is why I have challenged the Workers' Party to show whether it is just something that they want to use as a negotiation card in the negotiations with the Government, or whether it is serious. And it's clear that if the Labour Party is voting against this proposal, then the government parties know that they don't have to pay attention to this in the negotiations, because it was just a play that they were going to go back on. So that would be clarifying for the government parties as well. Then Steensnæs says he disagrees with the premises of the other proposals. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4, 5 and 6 are simply to put an effective stop to forced marriages and to give some Pakistani people an automatic residence permit in Norway through a forced marriage with a young Norwegian woman born and raised here. I have actually believed that there were more people who wanted to put an end to it, but I note that the government parties, based on the parliamentary leader, seem perfectly happy that these forced marriages continue as they are, in line with the culture that has been revealed and to which the government parties have as a policy to maintain and stimulate. I think there are shocking views from Steensnæs that have emerged here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e593	I understand that both Jan Petersen and Carl I. Hagen need to go some extra rounds before finishing this debate. I'd like to do that, but I think in a way that the issues should perhaps be a little more focused on what you've actually said. I appreciate the kindness of Jan Petersen, that he will now put away this pointless quote – that is, the word he himself used on what is assigned to me in the Newspaper. However, I am not quite sure whether I will not meet it again in some line. Then he quotes a recent statement from me in a reply to Per-Christian Foss, which I can of course fully acknowledge because it describes center politics in a good way. We have things in the center where we can be supported on the left side of each other, together with the Workers' Party and also from SV, and on the right side of us, together with the Advance Party and the Right. This is how we have negotiated in Stortinget. Although the budget gets very much attention in the negotiations of the Storting, there are so many other issues that are also dealt with in the Storting, and where the Christian People's Party, together with the other two central parties, is given the opportunity to get through its policy precisely through such alternating support. I will not answer on behalf of Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, but she gave a clear and comprehensive description of her view of future cooperation and how she looked at developments in the future with regard to the parliamentary situation. I think it should be exhaustive, but at least I want to point out this, and also confirm what Jan Petersen here said, that she did not readily acknowledge the form and wording that came in the newspaper today. Then I'll tell Carl I. Hagen that it's wrong that this is not the basic amount mentioned in the state budget. That's it. It has a clear link with the State budget and with the national budget, and it is therefore relevant to refer to the consideration of the Financial Committee. I maintain my proposal that the first two proposals by Carl I. Hagen should be discussed in the Financial Committee. Carl I. Hagen also draws into the pointless what the Christian People's Party and I stand for when it comes to coercion. This has been meritorious from several representatives today. I just want to quote from the post that the Minister for Family Affairs held in Stortinget, where it says: ‘To take care of the next generation also applies to our new countrymen and women. Respect for different cultures is important, but when culture collides with clear human rights, we must call for caution. Forcible sex is unculture, and here we must join with the young people who are forced or trained in something they do not want." I fully agree with this because it is the Christian People's Party's attitude and policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e614	I just drew myself out to comment on the proposals that the Progress Party has put forward. The Labour Party agrees with Einar Steensnæs that the proposals No. 1 and 2 should be forwarded to the Committee. The first proposal is mentioned in the national budget and, of course, the parties in the vote must comment on what it says. As regards proposal No: 2, I would say that the Labour Party never agreed with what the majority did, namely to take from low-paid and part-time workers the right to sick pay. The party of progress voted in favour. We will now enter into the negotiations with the centre parties to reintroduce that right from 1 January 2000. The government has agreed to reintroduce it from the second half of next year. We believe that it is a breach of promises in relation to what was said in the election campaign. That is why we believe it should be reintroduced as from 1 January. The Progress Party is now promoting this proposal in spite of the fact that the Progress Party was taking part in the removal of the entitlement to sick pay for part-time and low-paid workers. This is so its case, but the fact is that this is being treated in the context of the State budget, and it should be dealt with in that way. Otherwise, we also agree that proposal No. 7 is treated in the context of the energy notification. The other proposals of the Progress Party will be against the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e625	I also think I will report briefly on these proposals that have been put forward. But before I get that far, I just want to repeat to Steensnæs that I fully agree with him that the quotation he is still confronted with is pointless. I didn't want to be so unseemly, but since Steensnæs says it himself, I can confirm that this is how I perceive what he is saying. I have to admit that the new is not so much better. It's an expression that a step here and a step there is the Government's line. I have to remind you of the song that says, "And then come what you can do," and it's going to be the government line at that point. Otherwise I would like to comment on what Valgerd Reply City Haugland said. According to the report, she said: "What I said to the Newspaper was that when the Christian People's Party is now in government with two other parties, it is not so interesting to discuss new parties into that Government. That's what I stand for." If she didn't know each other in the newspaper's brief, I'm not sure if it's the daily paper that's to be reproached. Clearly, the Christian People’s Party has a problem with the national meeting decision they have taken. Then to the suggestions themselves. I guess I'm going to say what it is, that these proposals are not what determine the reality of any of these issues. There's a completely different and tidy way of dealing with these issues in the Storting, but it's in and of course Hagen's right to collect a pinch and see how it goes. To that end, I think it is also right to submit the proposals mentioned earlier. There is one proposal that we can vote in favour of, of course, and that concerns proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox Proposal No. 5 isn't all the world's linguistically clearly designed, to say it like that. I think I almost have to report that carefully. The only proposal that really worries me, and I want to put a little bit into being, is the last proposal, because everyone knows that the question is to get the Workers' Party involved in the gas power plants. It's no art to promote a proposal here for voting and then get it down. That would be a terrible sin. I don't want to hope that's Hagen's intention. Therefore, with Section 37 of the Rules of Procedure in mind, it is not that easy to let go of the proceedings, but the reality is that the case itself will be dealt with when the Right's proposal comes to the Committee's attention. Although it is certainly premature for Mr. Hagen that he has not promoted all the proposals first, is now nevertheless the reality, and I hope that it will be sent, so that we do not vote down anything that there are hopes of being implemented. So I hope he will agree to that for the sake of the matter. If not, the Storting should do it anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e639	I guess there's no particular doubt that this is a throne debate that has cut low if we evaluate it based on the entertainment value, but maybe highly if we evaluate it based on whether new alliances can be formed on the Storting that can do a systematic, long-term political job in terms of what is the biggest challenge in the millennium. But only the future and only the everyday life of political work can determine it. I see that the journalists are becoming more and more concerned about whether it is actually the way they will have to spend their time in the future writing about the things we are actually dealing with -- heavy, difficult and complicated things -- and not about the game that often resembles poker as much as anything else, and where it is easier to get fresh in the entertainment value. The main feature of the fact that there is a slightly new political situation is, Mr. Hagen's desperation, the fact that he makes as extensive proposals as he does, as he well knows is for consideration in the context of the negotiations between the centre and the Workers' Party. It's just looking up in the newspapers or on the Internet maybe to figure out what's theme there. Of course, it's a festive exercise to try to put them into the Storting, but I don't think the Progress Party will succeed this time. These proposals in relation to forced marriage have been presented without a heart attack to those young people who are actually in a very needed situation. None of them will help those who feel drawn between two cultures. The starting point is that these are 17-18-year-olds who are almost on the bar, but you can't possibly know that. These are often highly educated, well-trained people who still feel pressured by their family, they can be in work, and they can have their own housing. That kind of proposal doesn't help. Nor is it the case that this is a problem that only plagues young girls. There are also young boys in Norway with the kind of background that feel sloppy. They have not so far been raised in the debate itself. What we have to do is, and I hope that is a cross-political job, is that in dialogue with the people involved, we are able to find out the measures that will actually help. I hope so, among other things. will be a theme for further budgetary work, for some of which is crisis aid, to have a place to address, and in particular to support the job done by the environment itself. There has been a throne debate without the great flight and the great visions. On the SV side, we hope that a new pattern can be created on Stortinget with cooperation between the center, the Working Party and SV. SV will be on the track and challenge the case. There must be some who challenge a little bit of staggering numbers in the environment, in the knowledge society, on fair distribution. There we have a great job to do in one of the countries of the world that have the greatest opportunity to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e652	First of all, just a brief comment on what the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party has raised several times, and which is an important topic, namely the problem of forced marriage, also in Norway. But I react quite strongly when he presents it as if it were just the Progress Party that is busy doing something about this problem. Of course, that's wrong. Firstly, representatives from various parties have been involved in this in this debate. Secondly, I must draw the attention of the leader of the Progress Party to the fact that the Ministry of Children and the Family has already drawn up an action plan on forced marriage, which contains a broad register of measures, which goes a little deeper and wider than Hagen has prescribed, namely on information, dialogue and interaction, relief measures, crisis measures, training and empowerment, the role of the foreign legate and proposals for legislative changes in the law. So this, of course, rejects Eclat Hagen's attempt to present it as if it were just his party that is concerned about this problem. Otherwise, I record that Jan Petersen has his favorite phrase in this debate, namely that the centre parties have disappointed bourgeois voters. It's repeated now to the boring, if I'm going to say it like this. We can't let gallup measurements or other things control how we act in relation to budgets in Stortinget. But first of all, if you're going to confuse this with the voters' opinions, which Petersen is so enormously concerned about, it's actually a gallup measurement that shows that there's a clear majority of the centre-choices that this time think we're going to negotiate with the Workers' Party to try to find a solution. I think that much of Jan Petersen's argument today is an expression of the old two-block plot, and that he has not taken inward that the center rule is not based on an old two-block plot, but on the center as a separate centre of gravity. A minority government must cooperate more than others with other parties in the Storting in order to find solutions. And the strength of the center is that we're freer than a government further to the right or a government further to the left and can cooperate with different parties. That doesn't mean we don't have a clear policy. We have outlined it in the Voksenå Declaration, and I am very familiar with the two-year financial statements that we have presented on how far we have come to follow the Adult Declaration. This government is not just to sit down, but to implement this policy. We have an accounting for that. With regard to the government situation in the future, it is not constructive for a prime minister to lead a government, which we actually believe is good, to speculate in other alternatives. However, it is clear that the parties at their national meetings in the spring of 2001 will have to provide the electorate with guidance on how to view this over the next four years. It will also happen in the case of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e663	I understand that the Prime Minister does not like this clarification of elections and negotiations and what has happened before. But I have to say that it may seem that this central profile is such that it doesn't matter whether you go in to increase taxes or whether you go in to a solution where you have to reduce taxes or taxes. It's a relatively central concept. When you have the angle of incidence that it's kind of uninteresting, it's no wonder that some people are asking for what really is the central government's profile in this area. Then the Prime Minister also says that both the Government and others are naturally engaged in the debate about forced marriage. Yes, I fully agree with that, and there are some things that have come in. However, in our view, none of these address any of the issues at the heart of the problem, that coerciveness is used as a means of ensuring particularly some Pakistani people stay and access and visa to Norway. There is nothing here in Norway, as for example. to talk about this and have a dialogue on it, which will help on the fact that it is in order to obtain a visa, that it is in order to obtain a work permit, a residence permit and a residence permit many of the forced marriages take place. So as long as it's the entrance ticket to the Norwegian community, I don't think this conversation, which you've been doing for a very long time, is going to help. It is in the case of changes in the law regarding access to residence permits and residence permits, it must be intervened. It is quite right, as has also been said, that this does not solve all the problems – far from it. However, a good part of those who do not have their own labour income, and who do not have their own housing, will not be able to access Norway through forced marriage on the basis of our proposal and this amendment of the law proposed here. Then I note that we raised the matter in the form of proposals on 12 June 1997, while the revelations that have now come have come in recent times. When shall we be able to expect some results from the work as Mr. My country and the Prime Minister claim you're in business? So we're not satisfied with that talking. It has to be done. Such a system as we propose in our proposal No. So 5, they have in Denmark. It is active in Denmark, under a social democratic government, and it has had an effect. I also note that the treatment of proposals has begun. This is in the case of something strange, because they have to be treated in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 30. But after a request, and because I agree that the gas power issue is more important than political markings – I actually thought the Workers' Party soon, after criticizing the politicians for lack of power, could perhaps start to show the power of action itself, because it is those who sit with the key, but I have understood at Jagland that he will have one line in the Daily Journal and do something else in the Chamber – I accept that the last proposal can be sent over to the Energy and Environment Committee, which will be dealt with. For Mr. Clearly, I need more time to persuade my party traps in the big group to land on the reasonable position that he himself has launched publicly in a chronicle in the newspaper. I expect the other proposals to be voted on in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e676	Several have not asked for the floor and the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e682	Then we should be ready for voting, and the president will first ask the representatives to press the for-button to get an overview of how many are present.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e693	Then we are ready for voting, and there are seven proposals, tabled by Carl I. Hagen on behalf of the Progress Party. The President first refers to proposal No. 7, which reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the production of electricity in Norway based on continental cap gas.’ During the debate, Mr Hagen has accepted this proposal and is in favour of its being forwarded to the oil and energy committee for further consideration. Is there anyone who's against it? It's not, and it's passed. Then it is proposed that the proposals No. 1 and 2 by Carl I. Hagen, on behalf of the Progress Party, shall be forwarded to the Financial Committee for further consideration. This has been opposed by the author himself, who wants it to be put into practice in the Chamber. To that end, after the intention of the amendment of the Rules of Procedure adopted by the Stortinget before the summer, proposals made in connection with a matter which has not been dealt with by the Committee shall now be dealt with under the third paragraph of Section 28. However, there may be doubts as to whether proposals made in connection with a persuasion debate should be dealt with similarly, since the persuasion debate is not explicitly mentioned in Section 28. Therefore, in order not to make any interpretations which have a questionable basis, the President will consider the present proposals under Section 30, and therefore propose that the requirement to derogate from this paragraph be applied, namely 2/3 majority voting. It is therefore the case that the proposaler's demand that the matter be brought to a conclusion must be settled before we can possibly proceed to the financial committee, in which case Section 30 must be brought to an end by a 2/3 majority. That is why we must first examine whether there is a 2/3 majority in favour of putting Section 30 out of force, and we are going to vote on the President's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e718	So there's a two-thirds majority in favour of putting the paragraph out of force. Proposal No. 1 reads:‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals for guidelines which effectively ensure that the basic amount of the public interest develops in line with the general development of income.’ 2 reads:‘The Government asks the Government to promote the necessary legislative proposals to ensure a low-paid entitlement to sick pay from 1 January 2000.’ The President will then propose that the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party shall be forwarded to the Financial Committee for further consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e738	Let's move on. Is there anyone who wants explicit voting on the proposal No. 3, 4, 5, and 6? Was it so that the Right wanted to vote in favour of proposal No. Four?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e741	Proposal No. 4 we're ready to vote for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e748	We shall vote on the motions for resolutions first. Three, five, six. Proposal No. 3 reads:‘The budget asks the Government to assess and assess a change in the municipal law which imposes an obligation on all municipalities to ensure that there are regulated areas for housing at all times, but with an access for the Ministry to grant a derogation in very special cases.’ 5 reads:‘The decision asks the Government to put in place a control system in order to clarify that it is not an illegal periodicity when applying for a residence permit and visa for a foreign spouse and, if necessary, to provide a good legal basis for refusing visas and residence permits for foreign spouses in the event of forced marriage.’ 6 reads:‘The Government asks the Government to base its integration policy on the fact that oppressive traditions and cultures cannot be accepted in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e772	The President then takes up proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Government to work actively to counter forcible marriages, inter alia, by introducing requirements on dependability and sound housing as conditions for granting residence permits and residence permits in Norway for foreign spouses.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-10-13-2.ana.ud2033e786	The President will then propose that His Majesty the King speak to the 144th. Storing by its opening and notification of the state and governance of Norway is annexed to the Protocol. – This is deemed to be adopted.
