ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e27	The representative of Ågot Valle, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The called alternate of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Astri Wessel, has taken the seat. The representative of Gunnar Schaug is applying for leave on 25 and 26 March to attend a meeting chaired by the North Atlantic Assembly in Dresden, Germany. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Morten Olsen, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e55	The representative Per Sandberg will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e58	On behalf of the representatives Per Roar Bredvold, Siv Jensen, Øystein Hedstrøm and myself, I would like to propose a review of the contribution scheme with a view to achieving a fair burden-sharing between the beneficiary and the contributor. I would also like to make proposals from the representatives of Per Roar Bredvold, Siv Jensen and myself on setting up a public body to review the use of experts in child distribution matters.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e65	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e86	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Minister of State Lars Sponheimintenriksminister Knut Vollebækstaad Gudmund Restad The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We'll start with the first main questions, from Hill-Marta Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e105	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. In today's newspaper, the Minister of Finance says that increased unemployment can be a plus for the Norwegian economy. Such a policy would in that case mean that the Government wants to use increased unemployment as an instrument in the economy by making it easier for the Government to stabilise the economy. Such a policy will, of course, be a total breach of the cooperation line on which the parties and the authorities have built through the Solidarity Option. My question to Restad is: Can he now clarify to Stortinget whether it is such that the Government wants to use increased unemployment as a tool in the economy? And if so, how many more unemployed do the Minister of Finance want?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e114	With that statement in the newspaper today, this was not an unexpected question, and I am pleased that it is now possible to elaborate on what was actually said at the Holmenkollen Hotel yesterday, at the conference of the NHO Forum for Family Businesses. Let it be immediately said that it will never be this government's policy to rely on increased unemployment. My opinion is that every free person is an unused resource. Therefore, the aim must be to have as low leave as possible. I also think that if you didn't just read the headline and the intrusion in the paper in the newspaper, you'd be a little more reassured, even though what's in the headline might give a dramatic impression. My information yesterday was that we might have to expect some increased unemployment, especially in oil-related industries. And that in itself may not necessarily be so negative, because there's no doubt that the activity there has been appreciably high, especially last year. Unfortunately, we also have to be able to count on a certain increase in the availability of construction. So if you look in isolation at the two industries, you can probably experience a certain increase in unemployment in the course of the year. But then we are in the situation that in other sectors, especially in the health and care sector, we know that there will be a strong increase in the need for labour, and I expect that to offset the potential increase in unemployment in the two areas I have mentioned. Fortunately, for the time being, we have not been registered with the increased unemployment that the greatest pessimists predicted. Many people predicted that we would see higher leave early this year than at the corresponding time last year. So far – now that the first quarter is soon over – it has not turned on. The last numbers, which we got on March 17th, show that we have an unemployment rate of approx. 59 000 people, and there are barely 5,000 fewer unemployed than we had at the corresponding time a year ago.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e125	When one hears that the Minister of Finance finds that one can count on increased unemployment, one must say that he has come to a sense of truth, for in the past it has been difficult for the Minister of Finance and other members of the Government to admit that the budget laid down for 1999, where unemployment should not increase, is not entirely in line with reality. There is no doubt that yesterday the Minister of Finance gave signals that were the reason for my question. Finally, I would like to ask whether the Minister of Finance does not see what is bad about the fact that such signals are at all given in a situation where the parties are in negotiations, and where we are so dependent on the fact that the solidarity option is working through this wage settlement, which also means that the authorities are taking their part in the responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e132	I will reject the fact that there is a signal that it is desirable with increased leave. On the contrary, it stands at the end of the article that Hill-Marta Solberg now refers to, that it could be desirable to have a lower leave. I would have liked to see that we came back to the pleasant state of old days, where we had a leave of less than 2 pst. Unfortunately, the world of reality shows that when you get so low on unemployment – we were at the bottom of 3 pst. at the end of last year - a wage and cost pressure arises. It is not compatible with the low number of vacancies that we would have liked to see. So I'm going to deny that there are some signs of wanting increased unemployment, but I said that if there was going to be a slightly less activity in the oil sector than what we had last year, I don't see it isolated as something negative, because we need more hands in work in other important sectors, for example. in the health and care sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e139	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e142	Now I understand that the Minister of Finance does not mean what he has clearly said, because I think the Minister of Finance has probably wanted to give a signal in the direction he has said, that unemployment is now too low. If you think about the many rounds that have gone here in Stortinget during the winter, where we have challenged the Government to be prepared for higher unemployment, this is a very exciting and interesting signal, which is in contradiction with what both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister himself have said, namely that you should always be on standby. So here you go a little bit further and you say well, well, it's possible that the pressure is too high in some industries. Then a few have to ask: is it such that the Minister of Finance believes that a building worker can be retrained to health or care workers because there is different pressure in the labour market? That, of course, is completely impossible. This means that emergency plans, especially in the construction sector, are necessary. And then my question is, is it that the government still has contingency plans if unemployment increases in the construction sector, and is it willing to go into state projects to keep the construction industry going?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e149	I understand that Djupedal prefers to believe what is in the paper, rather than what the source says. I have now rejected twice the fact that there is some signal that the government wants increased leave in Norway. And so it is that, for the time being, we have fortunately not been given the increased unemployment rather as large pessimists – and Djupedal has perhaps been one of the greatest – fortune tellers. They are not entitled, because after the first quarter we still have significantly lower leave this year than last year. It is also the case that the Government believes that the main contribution – we still believe – to ensure that unemployment does not increase is that we get interest rates down to European level during the year. And economic policy is then structured. It's goal number. 1 for the Government. Then we have said, and we maintain that, that we will assess the situation and have a readiness if, through financial policy, too, further action is needed beyond the reduced interest rate. We had a three-four weeks ago a meeting with the oil industry where we discussed and got their view on the table. We will closely monitor what is happening there, and we will make proposals for action in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e161	Ranveig Frøiland for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e164	It could have been good, if the Minister of Finance believes it as clearly as he has said, that he had started the sentence in newspapers by saying that he does not want to increase unemployment. Then we had dropped asking these questions. However, we are at least some of them saying that unemployment will increase in different sectors. And if it is that the Minister of Finance thinks that it can be easy to get oil workers to become helpers and what else we need, there is at least more labour market measures to do. My question to the Minister of Finance is this: When there is so little money available for labour market measures this year – 7 000 fewer places than last year – is it then that the Government of the revised national budget can agree to allow more resources for labour market measures, just to meet what the Minister of Finance says, that there is a different level of unemployment in different industries? If you want to be re-educated, you must have resources and you cannot do it today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e171	Now it is not the Minister of Finance who has written neither the headline nor the intrusion in the Newspaper. It's the journalist who wrote it, or what, maybe, if it's the headline -- I don't know. I'm just trying to represent what's my opinion and attitude on the issue of unemployment. And of course, of the things that are being assessed against the revised national budget, the level of action is. We're aware it's low for now. It'll be one of the things that have to be evaluated, but it's too early to conclude, as I've said now on a couple of occasions. Fortunately, we have not seen the increased unemployment that the pessimists have predicted. Still, we have a higher employment rate and a lower unemployment rate now than one year ago. The exact number per person. 17 March in lower leave now than 1 year ago is as far as I remember, 4 600 people, and it has been stable so far this year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e178	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e181	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance a question. Following the accession of the new governor, Svein Gedrem, there has been a practical shift in Norwegian monetary policy. Monetary policy is now used both to maintain economic growth, to ensure low price and cost growth and to keep exchange rates stable. And since the political majority believes that the central bank should be subject to political governance, I feel the need for clarification from the Council of State. Is it true that monetary policy is in line with the regulation adopted by the Stortinget? And if this is the case, what will the Council of State do to ensure that the regulation is practiced as intended? But if this very broad interpretation, as we now see from the Governor, is in line with what the Government believes to be right, will the Government then take an initiative to amend the regulation so as to bring it into line with the interpretation of the regulation and its practice?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e188	The input angle of the question is wrong. It is not that monetary policy has changed, and that the new governor conducts a different monetary policy than has been established in the past. I tried, almost in all modesty, in December to point to the flexibility of today's currency regulation. I got some packaging for it, but I'm glad that when the new central bank manager said the same thing in his first meeting with the media on January 4th, but perhaps in a slightly different word, it was very positive! There is no doubt that the currency regulation we have today allows for the flexibility that has now been applied by the new governor, and that is in line with what the government thinks should be policy. There is therefore no need to amend the monetary regulation in the light of the practice exercised by the governor today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e193	The currency regulation clearly states that the main objective of the practice of monetary policy is to set it up so that the dollar is kept as stable as possible. At the time that the new governor reduced the interest rate twice, there was nothing, either in the exchange rate development or in the oil price, that meant that the interest rate reduction was a proper instrument under the currency regulation. But if it is that the Minister of Finance believes it is right to use the interest rate to control price and cost developments, which is a long way to go towards an inflation target, it is very good. But then at least I think that clarification should come from the Government, so that the uncertainty created in relation to the exercise of Norwegian monetary policy will no longer be present.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e198	I understand that Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party would like to interpret the practice of the currency regulation in the direction of an inflation target, which is the model of the Progress Party. But this isn't an inflation target. The instruments shall be designed to bring the crown back to its original rental when it has to be accepted for periods outside, as it has been for the last six months. And in this context, the assessments made by the governor are correct. You also have to look at other conditions than whether the crown is inside or outside of the rent, when you have to evaluate which level of interest is the right one. So I repeat that the practice of the currency regulation that Gedrem has now shown is entirely in line with the view that we in the Ministry of Finance also have of how the regulation should be practised.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e203	There will be follow-up questions – Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e206	Interestingly, the Minister of Finance maintains that there is no need to amend the regulation. I have a certain understanding of that, because practice has changed, so the rule really has zero meaning. I guess the situation is that the Minister of Finance is not telling the truth. We know he's not talking right, he knows we know that he himself is aware that he's not talking right, etc. The important thing is, of course, that monetary policy has changed. But is not the Minister of Finance afraid that respect for regulations and rules in general will be weakened when it is obvious to anyone who has followed the practice of monetary policy that there has been a dramatic change in this – not as a result of an amended political decision and regulation, but as a result of a change in which person holds the position as governor? Is it really the case that Norwegian monetary policy should now also be determined, in the government's view, by who is on the board of the Bank of Norway, and who is the governor of the central bank?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e213	It may be fine on the image of this finance minister when Hagen now accuses me of lying, for earlier I've been accused of being too truthful in everything I've said, and that it should have been a problem. We don't know what Storvik would have done if he still sat in the chair as governor. That's why it's hypothetical whether we would have had the same interest rate reductions with Storvik in place that we now got after Gedrem joined at the turn of the year. But there is – I get to repeat it – full agreement between what Gedrem now exercises, and the currency code we have to deal with, and that is set by the authorities. There is therefore no need to make changes to the monetary regulation and there is no need to change practices.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e219	For its part, the President would point out that, in terms of the use of words related to ‘ lie’ and allegations of falsehood, the President would ask the representatives to put forward something better than that. It also applies to ministers. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e224	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. In the last spontaneous question hour I addressed a question to the social minister about the so-called difference message, because she had been out in the newspaper and announced that it would be the starting point for tax increases. She gave a reply that it was not possible to get anything out of it, but a few days after she regained her speech and gave an interview in the Address Paper, where we got the same tax-enhancing message she had given in the Newspaper week before. And then my question to the Minister of Finance is, what every day is going on in the Government? Is it the case that this disparity is now actually going to be a sort of tax increase message that will be the starting point for a rematch on the things the Government lost during the budgetary conciliation last autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e233	I have understood that the tax question was an important issue in the previous spontaneous questioning session, and that the Minister of Social Affairs was subjected to a good deal of attack in this regard. Therefore, let it be said that it is important for the Government that the tax system continues to contribute to the balance of income differences in society. However, the government does not make any concrete proposals for changes to the tax rules of the EEAG on the balancing of living conditions. On the other hand, the notification will include: contain an analysis and a discussion of the distribution effects of the tax rules. Among other things, I have to: in the light of the analyses in the Steel Committee and in the Single European Act on the Cohesion of Living Conditions, consider the need for changes in the tax rules, but in a broader context than the Cohesion Communication. In that assessment, I would like to look at the distribution effect of the tax rules, both in relation to those with the lowest and those with the highest incomes. However, I would also like to place considerable emphasis on the need to ensure good conditions for investment in Norway and that any changes to the tax system contribute to a simpler and more efficient tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e240	There was no attack on the Social Minister that took place in the last spontaneous questioning session. We just tried to figure out what she really meant, and it turned out to be a pretty impossible problem. But after reading the press interviews she's giving outside the staging room, it's obvious that the government is exposed to the known phenomenon that here the right hand doesn't know what the left hand is doing. It is clear that the Minister of Social Affairs has been out there and aired quite concrete tax increases, for example. with regard to the taxation of capital. Then my question is: will the Government in this disparity also argue for a tax policy that means that we do not lose jobs abroad? The problem with an increase in corporate and capital taxes is that, at a time when we see jobs moving out, we do not get enough start-up in Norway. Will it therefore be emphasised how important it is to avoid differences in Norway, the establishment of enterprises and the addition of capital to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e245	What the Minister of Social Affairs and the Government believes in the Cohesion Communication, Jan Petersen has enough patience for a few days to wait. It is not long before that message is due, and then you will see what it says. But, as I said, no concrete changes will be proposed. An analysis will also be made of the distribution effects in relation to the tax system. Then, in other, more appropriate contexts, consideration will be given to what may arise from changes and what changes may be sound, including: where the Steel Committee has been consulted and is to be dealt with by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e250	It will be follow-up questions – Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e253	It is not exactly a government and a finance minister who is now blowing the trumpets and is calling for the fight against increased differences in Norway, if we are to hear what Gudmund Restad says. For it is news that the Government will not absolve concrete proposals in relation to increasing differences in Norway in the notification of Difference Norway. In this area, we know at least one thing: if the vast majority in Norway have had an increased standard of living, it is 10 pst. that have been significantly suspended after, and one tenth at the other end that has significantly withdrawn from it. We also know that there is one reason for that, and that is that the difference between the taxation of wages and the taxation of capital is so great. When can the Government imagine that concrete proposals can be made that could reduce differences in Norway? And is it the way the government sees it that it's with my predecessors on this pulpit, Jan Petersen and Carl I. Hagen, i.e. in alliance with the right side, you have to fight increased differences?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e260	I want to point out what I said in my previous answer, that it is important for the Government that the tax system continues to contribute to the smoothing of income differences. So there maybe Kristin Halvorsen hasn't heard well enough after. I also said that in the Cohesion Communication there will be no concrete proposals for tax changes. There is no time and place for concrete proposals for tax changes in a Cohesion Communication. However, the effects of the tax system will also be explained in the balancing communication for distribution purposes. Then we'll find other more appropriate ways to possibly propose changes. In my opinion, it will then be primarily after the investigation of the Steel Committee has been carried out in consultation and with a follow-up to it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e267	Per-Kristian Foss – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e270	I am pleased that the Minister of Finance still has reasonable control over tax matters and will not leave it to the proposals of the Ministry of Social Affairs. We also hope that the Minister of Finance will help to mitigate the type of analysis that means that the differences are particularly pronounced this year with good results in companies, i.e. where the yields are high. This means that this year, with poor results in enterprises, where yields are low, the differences in Norway suddenly decline. That's not how people really experience it. I would also like to ask the Minister of Finance to comment on the distance between his own desire for lower tax rates to get a flat system, i.e. where the difference between the capital tax rate and the marginal tax rate on employee income is smaller – the Minister of Finance himself has previously suggested that it could lie in the middle of the 30s – and the statements of the Minister of Social Affairs that she should raise the taxes for ‘all of us who have more than they need’ and how it can be reconciled.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e277	I don't think it's necessary to run any polemics with the social minister, especially as long as I haven't heard exactly what she said here in the hall. But taxes and taxes are still the Minister of Finance's table, and it's true that I've had an ambition to get a flat tax system. If we succeed, we will see when the consultation round is over. It is probably possible to achieve a combination of lower marginal tax rates at the top and, nevertheless, tax capital somewhat harder than today, if that is a wish, by increasing accordingly at the bottom. But I will not conclude that at all now. That's what we'll get back to when the sample survey has been at the hearing, and I've seen the hearing opinions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e283	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e286	The council and I were together yesterday at an NHO conference for family-owned businesses. Some of the answers given by the Council of State indicated that he wanted to make tax reliefs on wealth and on corporate taxation to make life a little easier for many of the small businesses around Norway and to ensure that jobs were maintained. Can the Minister of Finance confirm that the Government has the intention of making reliefs in these tax areas so that in the future we can also contribute to ensuring high employment and growth within the external life of companies we have in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e293	For the time being, the government has no attitude to that issue. What I aired yesterday was some of my own thoughts on the question: Is the property tax an appropriate form of tax? I took care then to say clearly that in that case it is not my intention to give up approx. We currently have NOK 6 billion as income from taxes on wealth, but perhaps to make sure that we obtain that money by other means, for example, by taxing the return on capital or wealth harder against relinquishing or reducing the tax on wealth itself. But there's nothing that's been discussed in the government, so it's just an opportunity that you have to keep open in the follow-up to the Steel Committee's investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e298	Tore Nordtun – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e301	There are many long and difficult thoughts that are going out in the government, I understand, and difficult to concrete. But I want to ask the Council of State if he's made up some thoughts about the tens of billions of tax evasion that are now reported, and how will he meet those challenges, as the same government has now reduced the number of employees in the tax evasion control unit quite significantly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e306	I'm a little unsure whether this is a new main question, or whether it's a follow-up question to the previous one. For me it seems at least somewhat doubtful if it was the same theme. But I've seen the numbers for what the black economy is going to represent. Let me at least let me say in the short time available, that the numbers we should include the necessary pinches of salt. It's impossible, however, to have a certain sense of the extent of the black economy. If I had had more time, I could have begun this more closely, but it is clear that the government is concerned about what is being exempted from taxation. Now it is enough in the figures presented by the Tax Directorate, some activity that under no circumstances would be taxed, for example. drug trafficking. It is likely that there will never be a taxable business in any case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e313	The President will take the opportunity to recall that additional questions shall be related as far as possible to the content of the main question. This to the mind of some people each. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e318	It is not to offend neither the Minister of Economic Affairs nor our excellent Minister of Foreign Affairs, but my question is also addressed to Minister of Finance Restad. He said in his reply to Siv Jensen instead that he had made his own thoughts in the area that was then the subject, and the Minister of Finance has done so before. Among other things, we have been told for a long time that there would be a follow-up to the so-called Storvik Committee's investigation into conversions in the VAT system in Norway. In this respect, the Minister of Finance has repeatedly, for example: on 10 October last year, been out and said that he is going in for lower food tax. It has been repeated on several occasions, and he has done so skillfully that he has led the farmers to believe that they should serve at lower food prices, while at the same time making consumers think that they should earn at lower food prices. At least both parts are not going to be right. But then we now feel that there will be a press release that this matter will once again be postponed, and the question is, Is it such that he only asks the voters to believe that they will get lower food prices? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e327	The president pointed out that the time frame is one minute, and asked the representatives to stay within it, otherwise it might go beyond the ability to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e330	The possibility, if any.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e335	It is true that the government after the accession has worked on the VAT reform, but we have had to conclude that it is too complicated to be presented in ours. We do not see it as appropriate to present it in all the budgetary work for the autumn, so in practice we will have to wait until the beginning of the next spring session before we are presented with this matter. Now it is no news that governments have to spend time on the VAT reform. It has been for treatment in various labour party governments, where Dag Terje Andersen has also been a member since the early 1990s. So it's obvious that other governments too have had problems drawing conclusions in this difficult case. And as I said, it is not just this government that has had to find that this matter is difficult. Then it is true that I have said that in connection with this VAT reform, it should also be considered to lower the VAT on food in Norway, as is the case with lower VAT on food than with other goods in all other countries, except Denmark. I have also registered that the Workers' Party is strongly opposed to it, at least initially. What's going to happen, you have to be patient to wait for the next spring session to see. However, the intention is that we can take the opportunity in a year to get a food tax in line with what we have in other countries, including Norway. in Sweden – also in order to counter border trade over the cold.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e345	A number was made of the fact that this case has been dealt with by former workers' party governments, and that is correct. But it's now that the time that the government that's sitting now is using it in addition to the job that's done before, even if you can get the impression that the government has started with blank papers and has to spend the same amount of time that was already used for preparation. But it's a little special that it's being marketed as if reduced food tax should be a significant part of the message when it comes, while the finance minister says he can't provide it until it's another year late because it's hard to find conclusions. That is why I ask the question whether this is how the offer that was given on lower VAT is made to market, rather than whether it is a reality that will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e352	So employee party governments have spent seven years not being able to conclude. This government has spent barely a year and a half coming to the same result, so I don't think we have anything to be ashamed of here. As far as the food tax is concerned, it is not a necessary part of the VAT reform, because the VAT reform is known as reflecting the system. Today it is true that there is general VAT on goods, but with certain exceptions. There is generally no VAT on services, but with certain exceptions. It is healthy, and probably necessary, to have a non-discrimination of goods and services, especially as consumption is more and more directed towards services and less and less towards goods. If you do something about the food tax, from my intrusion angle, it will be primarily for the sake of consumers. I do not think it is reasonable for us in Norway to pay more taxes on food than they do in other countries. And especially since there are many people who believe that food prices are high in Norway, it should not be the case that the state provides more than the maximum necessary and ensures that food prices are unnecessarily high.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e359	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e362	It's almost unreal that, when Norway for the first time in 54 years is likely to be at war today or tomorrow in Europe, we should not talk about it here. I will therefore ask questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. There is no doubt that the responsibility for the crisis as a whole falls on Slobodan Milosevic. Last time we saw it, he has used the situation in the middle of the negotiations to launch a new offensive in Kosovo and drive tens of thousands of people on the run. Nevertheless, it is our duty to talk about the difficulties with the necessary action that is now being initiated, and to get on the table the problems we can then go into. In particular, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs two questions. One is: what plans are there to force Milosevic to the negotiating table if the first round of air strikes should now fail in the sense that it does not force a solution? So what do you do? Secondly, I would like to ask: what can NATO do to now protect the Kosovar Albanian civilian population from experiencing new Srebrenicas or Racaks or other assaults, new Drenicas, while the bombs fall?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e371	I agree with the representative of Solheim that it is timely to ask the kind of questions and discuss the difficult situation that we have come into, in the Stortingen today. But I also agree with him that this is both difficult and unreal, and it is clear that some of the questions we are now facing do not have a definitive answer to. What has happened is that for a long time there has been a political strategy to try to get Milosevic to the negotiating table by political means. Political and diplomatic work has paralleled a military threat that is hoped for. It has not worked, and therefore it was found to have to go to the decision yesterday that military action could be taken. NATO has a plan for the implementation of military actions, and there is hope that these military actions may be as limited as possible, and that Milosevic will be able to get to the negotiating table as soon as possible. Already now he has the chance, and it's also been said that any action will happen at intervals. So to the second question, that goes to the people of Kosovo. This is a major and serious problem. The aim is at least to try to make the most of the military forces of Yugoslavia out of operation as quickly as possible. I have recently had a conversation with the Deputy Secretary-General of the UNHCR on the situation, and on the part of the UNHCR, there is a great deal of concern about the situation in Kosovo. Words like Srebrenica are used precisely because Serbian authorities have gone to measures that can affect the civilian population.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e378	The goal has always been that using military power as a threat would get Milosevic to the negotiating table and to a solution. A good thing is that in Rambouillet a political framework agreement has been reached by the Albanians and that there is every reasonable reason that Serbia should be able to accept it. But you didn't get a Serbian acceptance for that. Then the next step will be to launch the threat that got the parties to the negotiating table, and possibly trigger bombing at intervals. But if none of this succeeds, there is obviously a logic in this situation that everyone sees, and that is that you can't start a war in an area or answer with military means against Serbia without taking responsibility for the final outcome of what's happening. I would like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to assess what plans exist in NATO to possibly deploy ground forces in Kosovo to take direct responsibility for protecting the Kosovo Albanian civilian population and to ensure a lasting solution for Kosovo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e383	The situation of the civilian population is cause for concern, and we take it seriously. In today's situation, we see no possibility of entering with ground forces. I understand that the military experts have assessed the need for ground forces to be 200,000 men if they were to enter Kosovo in today's situation. I don't think that's possible. The risk would probably also be too great to risk such an action. That is why, in my opinion, we must continue to use the military instruments we have now adopted, but, of course, we must also continue with the diplomatic and political work of constantly trying to force President Milosevic to the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e388	There will be follow-up questions – Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e391	In Kosovo, the Albanian population represents significantly more than 90 pst. For a long time they have been persecuted and harassed by the Serbian regime. It is not really possible to imagine a harmonious ‘living next to each other’ in Kosovo at all in the future after the slaughter that has taken place. Would it not now make sense to consider recognising Kosovo as an independent country, which would automatically change the whole picture? Then the Serbian army would be an occupation army, and a direct goal was to cast out the Serbian occupation army. This would lead to a different situation — one can no longer talk about an internal issue in one country, but a conflict between two countries. Then it would be much easier for the international community to intervene and get a clearer goal than now and, we say, restore a peaceful coexistence, which is now impossible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e396	Firstly, I do not think it is possible to reach a broad international agreement on the recognition of Kosovo as an independent country, so that the starting point I believe does not exist. Secondly, it is my view and that of the Government that, despite the suffering suffered by the people of Kosovo, that is not good enough. It may sound brutal, but in principle it is not good enough to say that this should become a state of its own, both because it faces serious consequences by depriving Kosovo of Yugoslavia for the whole region, and because of a principle of human rights on the rights of minorities, but also the obligation of a majority to take care of minorities, if we see this in a larger context. In addition to that, I strongly doubt that such a procedure would help the civilian population, because then the war would escalate even more.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e401	Hallgeir H. Langeland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e405	I'm not going to hide that I've been against the trickery diplomacy that's been led by NATO in this matter. But the government has had good grounding in the Storting to be with NATO on this strategy. The consequences of a war don't know anyone, neither the Minister of Foreign Affairs nor anyone else. When one knows what forces Serbia has, and one also knows that Russia and China are very clear on what they mean, we can start thinking about the shot in Sarajevo again. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that Sweden will not participate in this action? Is he aware that Greece is not going to participate? Is there at all any possibility for Norway to withdraw? Is there at all any possibility of retreating from NATO?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e414	This is a difficult situation and a serious situation. None of us think this is ideal, but it's hard to stand by and look at an era of an entire people – an entire population. Recent reports suggest that Milosevic has not at all used the opportunity to create better conditions for the civilian population, but rather takes advantage of the opportunity for further harassment. There is concern about the situation of the civilian population, as many people have noticed, now that international communities have moved out. It is true that Sweden is not in the NATO action, but Sweden has said that they wanted to be in a military presence in Kosovo to implement the Rambouillet agreement under NATO’s leadership. Finland has also said that. When the representative points to Greece's not in, I'm not aware of it. The whole of NATO is behind the decision taken by the Secretary-General of NATO, including Greece.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e421	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e424	I have a question that is a little bit of an extension of what is happening in Kosovo. It concerns the relationship between human rights and international law. This government has consistently stated that it has a very high profile in terms of human rights. However, according to the media, Vollebæk has stated that extensive killing of the civilian population does not in itself give legitimacy to military intervention. According to the media, he has said that the entire region's security is now at stake. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is therefore: Is not a comprehensive and complete violation of human rights a basis of international law to intervene?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e433	A humanitarian disaster is serious and we should do what we can to prevent it. But the representative Danielsen is as familiar as I am with the humanitarian disasters we have a number of places in the world. We have had a genocide in Rwanda that is even worse than what we see in Kosovo today, and we have had similar bloodshed elsewhere. It's important, I think, in our world today that we are trying to get international driving rules. The UN Charter has confirmed, or provided a basis for, the intervention of the international community. Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter has a language that legitimizes the use of armed power. Reference is made to the fact that the threat to stability and security in a region may prescribe the use of armed power. We do not have such a decision by the UN Security Council in this situation, but we have a treatment in the Security Council that refers to Chapter VII. Therefore, the Government has considered that in this situation, based on the assessment of the situation in the region, it is legitimate to use armed power. The humanitarian disaster will be added. It is not immaterial, but it cannot be the ultimate cause of entering with the use of armed power.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e440	Isn't the point here that human rights are the whole moral foundation of international law – a completely necessary prerequisite for international law? If we don't have human rights that are respected, we have no international rights. The signals we're sending out here are absolutely crucial. No abuser must initially feel confident that if he is strong enough and commits an assault, he will get away with it. Politicians act as known very often according to the law of the expected response. The Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned Rwanda. What we could read in the newspapers yesterday was that the United Nations is now going to set up an investigation commission to find out what happened in Rwanda. What has characterized the situation is that you've done too little too late. My question is whether the government here will lead a slightly more offensive line and send out that signal to the world community that no one can feel safe if he commits genocide.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e449	No one should feel safe if they commit genocide. With regard to Rwanda, the UN has already set up a Rwandan court dealing with Rwandan issues. As you know, Norway has also supported an international criminal court to look at this type of crime. From the Norwegian side, we have been active in working for people who violate human rights, who commit genocide, to be held responsible for their actions. But it is also very important that we have international, recognised driving rules. And I'm probably afraid, with all due respect for Danielsen's representative, that not all international law experts would agree with Danielsen's representative at his beginning and interpretation of international law. I think it's important that we have a common foundation here, otherwise this can become more self-evident than international law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e456	It will be follow-up questions – Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e459	We are now in the middle of some of the fundamental issues raised by the current situation in Kosovo. In my and SV's view, we are simply in a situation in which the world community does not have an adequate answer as to where the balances between emergency and international law actually go, but that is a question that one must work intensely further on. The point of emphasising a broad international consensus on what is going on in any international response should be to get on a track that involves obtaining a political and diplomatic solution. That is also why the threat of bombing was what was hoped for, not actually bombing in Kosovo. But now we're where it hasn't worked and the seriousness really starts with the reactions of the world community. [[The President clubs.]] I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to what extent dialogue can now be achieved and to get the Russians involved in what is now happening in the future, and what strategy Norway, NATO and the OSCE have taken in relation to it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e466	The President has previously made the representative of Halvorsen aware that the time limit should be kept. It doesn't seem to have worked that far.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e469	I agree with Mr Halvorsen that relations with Russia are very important. I know that it is shared by the other NATO countries and not least by NATO's Secretary-General, who are in close contact with Russia's NATO ambassador. It will of course be assessed on an ongoing basis, and I will personally also assess contacts with Minister of Foreign Affairs Ivanov in this situation. I have also had contacts in the region today, and we have had discussions on how the OSCE can make its way towards a negotiated solution, so that destabilization does not exceed what is most necessary. I spoke to the Macedonian Minister for Foreign Affairs today about the situation of Macedonia, which is very serious. This is something we should follow up, but I am afraid that I do not have all the answers today. But still, if I get to add it, the threat is present, and that's the most important thing. Still, it's not the bomb. The threat is still there, and Milosevic can come to the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e477	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e480	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. Great Norwegian activity on Svalbard is important for both the bus fare and for the enforcement of Norwegian law. The company has been working to map a large, new minefield, the central field. It is said that there is an opportunity to develop Svea Nord to become economically viable. The company must have completed its completion in the spring of 1999. A postponement to spring 2000 would result in an extra cost of 80 million. kr. Since I have not noticed that State Council Sponheim has made a change of pace, I have to ask what time the government has planned to sue Svea Nord and therefore the future of Great Norwegian on Svalbard in front of Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e487	It is true that the representative here says that there has been very intensive work in Great Norwegian, especially in the past six months, in order to arrive at a permanent basis for further coal operations that will be independent of ongoing annual government budget appropriations. Great Norwegians themselves and the board have come up with a proposal on how this can be done. The Ministry has this proposal for consideration in a consulting company that examines the business-economy calculations, of course in full understanding with Great Norwegian, in order to have the best possible decision-making basis when this is presented to the Stortinget. It is also right to say in this context that it is these difficult issues of further coal operations and to find an economic basis for further coal operations that is perhaps the most delaying element of the Svalbard message that the Government is now working on, because we are awaiting the work that the company itself is going to do and the necessary investigations. The government is working too hard on the Svalbard message to get this out. I can tell you that the Prime Minister, together with me and the Minister of Justice, is going to Svalbard to look at this coal body and discuss these questions with Great Norwegian after Easter, in order for the Government to have the widest possible insight into these issues. Then we'll come back to Stortinget as soon as possible in a suitable form. Let me also say that I personally see very positive about the possibility that Great Norwegian now seems to have a permanent operation without the need for ongoing subsidies, and the Government will actively contribute to finding such a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e496	I record that the Minister of Industry did not entirely respond to what was at the heart of my question. It was whether this matter is submitted to Stortinget so early in the spring session that she can be dealt with in the spring session. So if the government doesn't make it, you're going to get an extra $80 million. kr. It cannot then be a goal for the Government to do the work so thoroughly that one gets such an extra cost, when the company itself has found that this can be economically viable. So I ask again, when is the government going to file the case for Svea Nord?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e501	I said in my first answer that we will come up with the Svalbard message, which in a broad sense has to deal with the questions related to further coal mining, as soon as we can. This is where there's a bomb in the government apparatus. But, of course, the department is fully aware of the sizes of the numbers it operates at the cost of implementing the sample size into the central area of Svea that is necessary to have the necessary knowledge of a permanent basis for further coal operations that are economically profitable. The analyses available so far, we now have to verify in agreement with the company, which I expressed. I will come back to the revised national budget detailing these questions if we have not been able to come up with the Svalbard message at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e506	Last main questions will be asked by Per-Kristian Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e509	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. In the Questionnaire three weeks ago, the Prime Minister replied as follows: ‘It is a demanding task to facilitate the location of industrial activities in Norway at a time when we are facing increased capital mobility and increasing competition between countries in attracting investment.’ As late as yesterday's VG, the director of the export council alerts, what he calls trade alerts, and points out that there has been a trend over time when Norway's share of world trade, both with and without petroleum, has been declining – clearly decreasing. We have also received fresher examples of companies moving out of Norway, where choices are between several Nordic countries, especially in the case of mergers. My question to the Minister of Industry is – I am trying, despite the fact that the Minister of Finance has earlier today replied that the Government has no position – whether there is an overall government stance on what kind of strategy you choose to avoid further developments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e521	I am absolutely sure – and I also sat here and heard – that the Minister of Finance did not express himself so that we do not have a clear position. We want to have profitable and good Norwegian businesses in the future that can also replace the income losses society needs to have in the oil and gas sector in the future. These included: therefore the Prime Minister, on behalf of the Government, was so concerned with the innovation perspective in the presentation he made at the beginning of February. That's right. I remember well and have noticed the answer that the Prime Minister gave to the representative Per-Christian Foss in the Questionnaire just when it comes to these questions that the Government is concerned about. I think I should dry to say so much, even though the Minister of Finance is sitting right next to me, as if in the work on the state budget for the year 2000, the Government is concerned, among other things. to look at the Nordic tax rules that may make it possible for Norwegian enterprises to have different circumstances, including: in relation to our neighbouring countries — among others: on the basis of the answer given by the Prime Minister to the representative Per-Christian Foss. We are looking at whether there are elements in the Swedish and Danish tax codes, which we know are under discussion by day, which it may be relevant to look at also in relation to Norwegian companies, in order to make Norway even more attractive to localise both head office and business activity. In a short time, the Government will appoint the selection as it does, among other things. from the NHO — they called it Localisation Norway — and, in part, also from the trade union movement, to look at this in a more long-term perspective. Because that's exactly what the director of the Export Council said in yesterday's VG, and as the government actually states in quite clear order in the business report that was presented to the Stortinget last May, that we are totally dependent on entering into a business development in this country that is not so commodity-based and that is able to focus on innovation and skills in the business life of the future, which must necessarily replace very much of the commodity-based industry and the business life that we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e528	My supplementary question, in the same area, will be addressed to the Minister of Finance, so that he will not sit and listen, but get direct questions in his own field. The Minister of Finance replied in the same Question Time to which the Minister of Industry now referred, that the Government is willing to review the tax and tax rules, among others. at the Nordic level to ensure that the location of the enterprises to Norway is as attractive as possible. Given that companies are moving out, will the Minister of Finance consider doing something before the end of the year? It is possible to change tax rules also in the revised national budget. After all, the Ministry of Finance has fully demonstrated that it is possible to change the charging rules quickly to the detriment of enterprises. In this way, it is also possible to change the charging rules quickly to the benefit of enterprises, for example. to prevent this relocation. There I am open to both the Government's position and, if necessary, my own thoughts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e533	I don't think it's necessary to say anything in addition to what State Council Sponheim just said. He stated that the tax rules we have in relation to the outside world will be assessed, because of course there is a strong desire to establish and operate in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e538	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt – for additional questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e542	I'd like to go back to Prime Minister Sponheim, because when he answers here, he talks very quickly, and it sounds like there's a lot of activity and a lot of pressure. In the Labour Party, it is our clear view that it is quite passive on the part of the Minister of Industry. The one thing is this perspective that Per-Christian Foss took up. We also have a situation in Norway now, where notices of cancellations and cancellations are sent out. I was among others. in Haugesund last Friday, and it was announced that 130 – mainly engineers – are now being dismissed, and more will be done later in the spring by both engineers and others. Then his Minister of Industry, and he's watching and waiting. Is it quiet before the storm? Can we really expect an offensive from the Government, with the Minister of Industry at the head, to counteract unemployment in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e549	Minister of Industry Lars Sponheim.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e554	The ambitions are actually no bigger than that, President! Let me first say that it is absolutely necessary to distinguish between the short-term problems and the long-term questions. It was well of the medium and longer-term questions Per-Kristian Foss travelled, related to the fact that we have gradually developed a business life in Norway that is very raw material-based. If we had a completely different business life today, the work had to be taken up in a completely different way in the early 1990s, under governments other than those now sitting. And that's exactly what the representative here is saying that we're facing some short-term problems. Now it has not been properly switched off on unemployment statistics such as: The representative Ausdal Starrfelt strongly asserted to me in a spontaneous question hour in December. But there's a lot of evidence that it's coming. The third quarter appears to be a critical period. The government will come back to the revised national budget, where all these issues will be discussed, and we will present the proposals that we believe are necessary and which can be balanced against a continued tight budget to contribute to a lower interest rate, which is important to businesses. The government is also well aware of the proposals made by the industry, which the Workers' Party has also recently promoted at a press conference.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e561	The time for the oral Question Time is now over, and we're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e566	In view of the high number of questions to be answered, the President considers that he has to be informed by reference to Section 53 of the Rules of Procedure. The last 3 paragraphs have determined that only one supplementary question will be raised after the main question has been answered. It is considered necessary for the current map to be completed within the scheduled time of the morning meeting. Furthermore, the President will announce that there will be a wide range of changes in the set-up of the question list and will refer in this context to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Unn Aarrestad to the Minister for Culture, is postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State has a disease incident. Question 2, from Mr Ågot Valle to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs who will direct him. Question 4, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be taken up by the representative of Grethe G. Fossum. Question 9, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister for Transport, this question is moved and answered in response to question 35, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 12, from the representative Anneliese Dørum to the Minister for Finance, will be raised by the representative Tore Nordtun. Questions 22 to 29, from the representatives Synnøve Konglevoll, Ursula Evje, Rolf Reikvam, Tomas Norvoll, Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Rita Tveiten respectively to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 30, from the representative Rune E. Kristiansen to the Minister for the Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration, who will direct him. Questions 31 to 35, from the representatives of Inger Stolt-Nielsen, Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, Steinar Bastesen and Inge Myrvoll respectively to the Minister for Transport, are moved and answered in response to question 46, i.e.: at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 36, from the representative Einar Olav Skogholt to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him. Question 47, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs who directs him. At the request of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, this question is moved and answered in response to question 4, to be answered by the same Council of State. The question will be raised by the representative Synnøve Konglevoll.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e606	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e612	The question, addressed to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who will address it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e615	I have the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: «Both the Berg Committee's attitude and the report of cultural sociologist Per Mangset contained criticism of the organisation of the dissemination of Norwegian art and culture abroad. Several cultural actors have pointed to the unsustainable fact that the dissemination of Norwegian art is subject to foreign policy strategies. Our neighbouring countries spend much more on cultural exchanges with the rest of the world than Norway does. Will the Council of State take the initiative to re-evaluate the organisation and extent of the presentation of Norwegian culture abroad?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e624	Let me immediately conclude that art and culture naturally have a value in themselves. Therefore, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs strongly supports cultural life on the artists' own premises. In order to ensure the quality of what we do, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has since 1993 relied on advisory groups in key areas of art such as visual arts, music, literature and dance/theatre. The trade unions participate in the planning of foreign cultural mediation and bets, and advise on the processing of applications by artists who wish to present themselves outside. We have several such groups under planning, and further emphasis will be placed on information and dialogue with the professional community. In addition, the Ministry of Culture is engaged in continuous dialogue with the Ministry of Culture on this matter in the area of responsibility of the Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs officials are not experts in art and culture. Our contribution is competence in contact communication, outreach to foreign cultural authorities and networking between Norwegian and foreign cultural institutions. The fact that foreign stations are also working on press and information work allows for more effective visibility of Norwegian culture and better use of professional and financial resources. Good Norwegian art, however, also tells something about ourselves. It presents what Norway stands for, and therefore it has a message that others can benefit from. This means that the cultural media should also be put into a framework that allows us to reach the audience we prefer. Most of the cultural media are targeting central countries and regions in Europe, North America and Japan. These countries mean a great deal to Norway politically and economically, and are also of great interest to Norwegian cultural life both in the presentation of our own culture and in the acquisition of impulses. But we also want to use art and culture as part of Norway's presentation in a wider global context. Culture thus becomes the third pillar of foreign policy – alongside the political and economic field. As most countries, we are concerned about the link between the three pillars, which raises important questions, as the representative Valle points out. However, we have very positive experience of using cultural media also as a tool for Norwegian political and economic interests. This does not mean that we should not have a debate on this and consider alternative ways of organising work. We have an ongoing dialogue with cultural life itself and with other departments about this. However, the extent of our cultural work abroad needs – as in other areas – to be adapted to the given budgetary framework. According to the information we have, the total amount of Norwegian public support for foreign cultural initiatives is roughly equivalent to Finnish in purely economic terms, and perhaps slightly below what has been done in Sweden and Denmark. However, it is important that we take into account the entire spectrum of resources and instruments deployed, even if they are not so easy to quantify. In Norway, in particular, foreign stations — as much as for our neighbouring countries — represent an important human resource to which both we and cultural life can play.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e643	I thank you for your answer. I understood it this way on the answer that the government is just aiming for some adjustments. The answer was good enough, but it also shows that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs thinks very instrumental in the field of art and culture, namely that the aim of dissemination is beyond art and culture itself, and is not being put into a cultural policy context, as I understood the Stortinget said something about the time the cultural message was presented. There are great frustrations in art and culture about how this works, precisely because this happens from an instrumental way of thinking. The concentration on some countries is also high, and it is not certain that the exciting things that can make Norwegian artists and cultural workers flourish are happening in these very countries. It is important to stress that Norwegian artists and cultural workers must have the opportunity to thrive in meetings with abroad. [[President clubs]] Doesn't the Foreign Minister see this point, and evaluates... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e650	The President will point out that the flowering time now was well long!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e653	The Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have nothing against flowering neither in cultural life nor anywhere else, one hopes that the flowers will soon come! But I'm not sure if I fully understand the representative Valle when she says we're not putting culture into context. That's one of the things I tried to do. We believe that art and culture have a value in themselves, and we need to support that. We're actually using peer groups. I don't think we're going to get into a situation – with all due respect for the Norwegian scientific community in the field of art – where everyone agrees on strategy. We know from the debate in the newspapers that there is also a great deal of internal disagreement in Norway as regards art and culture and what we should give priority to, so it must also be part of the State Department's situation. But we're taking them on board, we're using them. And our understanding is that frustration is far less today than it was a few years ago, both because we spend more on the trade unions and because we have more money than we had a few years ago -- actually over 50 million. kr on the cultural budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e663	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Children and Family the following questions: ‘It seems that parental payment in kindergartens has increased far above the price increase. In the budgetary procedure, it was stressed that the parental payment should not exceed the price increase. What is the Council of State going to do to ensure that the parental payment in kindergartens does not increase further?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e672	I share the representative Fossum's concern about the increase in the parental payment in kindergarten. Kindergartens should be a real option for all parents. Therefore, the parental payment rates should not exclude anyone from the kindergarten. It must never be such that only those with high incomes are able to use the nursery. The government is concerned that the parent payment should be at an acceptable level for all parents in both public and private kindergartens. The government's wish that the payment rates should not increase more than the general price increase is an expression of this. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is the municipalities and the private nursery owners who established the parental payment. The latest figures from the Statistical Central Bureau indicate that the increase in the last six months has been higher than the increase in the consumer price index. This hangs among others. together with the paycheck last spring. Increases in the cost of childcare after pay have in many places been compensated by a higher level of parental pay. I have also noticed that the parent payment has increased most in private kindergartens without municipal support. The participation of local authorities is an important prerequisite for keeping parents equal in private and public kindergartens. Recent developments have not been in line with the government's wishes and objectives. In order to ensure acceptable prices in kindergartens, we therefore need to evaluate the tools that the state has. And to put it this way: in this fiscal year we have increased the deduction of documented expenses for the care and care of children, which also has something to say for the kindergarten costs at all. It may be time to adjust the level or arrangements of the parent payment. There are several ways to do this. These will be discussed in the upcoming issue of kindergartens. So I don't want to conclude now, but through the kindergarten message, invite Storting to a discussion about any measures to ensure an acceptable level of parental payment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e688	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which shows that we share this concern for kindergartens and for the parental payment. The Central Statistical Office shows that child care rates actually increased by 4.4 pst. from the fall of 1998 to January 1999, and in private kindergartens it rose by 7 pst. It is clear that this is a serious problem for parents, who have to pay every month. I have a question for the Council of State in connection with the answer I received: What are the measures that the State intends to use here? We miss all the kindergarten messages, because if the kindergarten news had come now, it would have meant that it could simply have consequences for the 1999 budget. Moreover, it would mean a lot to those parents who actually have to pay a parent contribution every month to the kindergartens that have increased more than the price development we have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e697	What I expect is that the SSB has not included in its calculation is – as I mentioned in my answer – they increase the deduction for documented expenses for passport and care of children, which makes the image a little lighter. But as I also said, we're going to follow this closely. When it comes to the tools we can plan to use, I also said in my answer that I can't conclude today, because they are coming back to us in the nursery. When it comes to child care and the impact of the 2000 budget, the colleague of the representative Fossum – Karita Bekkemelm Orheim – said in a debate with me here in Stortinget that the message would in any case not have been dealt with until Christmas next year, so I believe that if the message comes now in June, or if it comes to the fall, this will not have so much to say for the exact budget for the year 2000. But what is clear, and which we have to address in the big message, is that we need to look at how, in the longer term, one can strengthen the rights of parents in relation to the total expenditure they have on kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e707	This question, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be raised by the representative of Grethe G. Fossum.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e710	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: «The government's agreement on cash support covers all parts of the family policy. During the Landsförbund national meeting of Private Barnehager, one of the government’s partners informed that there is no more money for kindergartens, but a redistribution of the 240 million. crowns used for kindergartens each year. Is this a signal that both private and public kindergartens should no longer be guaranteed financially and that further expansion is put on ice?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e719	The representative Fossum asks on behalf of the representative Bekkelem Orheim about the government has signaled that private and public kindergartens are no longer going to be financially secured, and whether the further expansion is being iced. That's about. Four weeks ago, I responded to an interview from Karita Bekkemelm Orheim, where I dealt with the challenges we have in the kindergarten sector. I can't see that there's any new information that changes the assessments I gave in that debate, and I don't want to re-examine all the arguments I used then. I then stated that the expansion has not stopped, and that the government will work to secure both private and public kindergartens financially. The need for new places will lead to increased costs for the State and the municipality. It will cost to reach the goal of kindergarten for everyone who wants it. The government is working on these questions and will follow up on the big message and in the annual budgets. My conclusion is the same today as it was a month ago: the further expansion is not made on ice, and private and public kindergartens are still to be secured financially. Now the representative Fossum has not asked the question, but Karita Bekkemelm Orheim, but I must be allowed to add that I am a little wondering about the question, where one refers to one of the government's contractors. I have been informed that the party to the agreement that Beckemel Orheim thought about, in his statement referred to the Progress Party's proposal for a redistribution of 240 million. kr in the nursery sector in their alternative budget. While we were in opposition, the Christian People's Party went several times in budgetary cooperation with the Labour Party, without feeling that the Labour Party had to impose on our entire alternative budget. I hope that's not how it should be in the future, and we know that the Progress Party had a different proposal than the Government had, and I want to stress that the Government does not defray the overall budget proposal that the Progress Party had in relation to our budget for 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e734	Yes, it is true that you do not book for everything a partner does. However, once a written agreement has been concluded with e.g. The progress party that the municipal and private kindergartens should share the funds, and this partner in a public meeting at the moment says that there will be no more krone to the kindergartens, and that the 240 million. The crowns are to be divided between public and private, and we will see a picture that the public kindergartens, which are now supported, will get less. Thus, the parental payment in these kindergartens will increase. I know this is a problem that the minister disagrees with. Doesn't she find it difficult, when one of the partners is so negative to kindergartens as the Progress Party here is, saying that they don't have another penny for kindergartens? Is it then easier to get more kroner for cash support?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e741	Now I have to say that the representative Fossum referred to the agreement we have with the Right and the Advance Party, in a slightly non-chalant way. There is nothing in the agreement that municipalities should distribute the funds equally from today's pot. The representative Fossum would like to have the agreement, so she can see what's on it. What is the case is that the agreement says something that the private and public kindergartens have to get a more equal treatment when there are similar demands on them. The obligations and financial management should be more similar than they are today. We will come back to the Stortinget with proposals on this. When it comes to the Progress Party's proposals in relation to the budget, their starting point was, of course, their starting point. That we were going to have $25 billion in taxes. So there was a pretty big gap between what they put out as their budget, and what was the final budget. They went in dialogue with us, though, and we got a budget adopted. I'm glad. But I'm going to distance myself from the government from the entire alternative budget that the Progress Party put forward in the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e748	So we go to question 47.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e754	This question, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs who will direct him. The question will be raised by the representative Synnøve Konglevoll.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e759	I will ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘Is it relevant for the Government to transfer the earmarked grants to the kindergartens to the general framework transfers to the municipalities?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e766	The state support for the operation of kindergartens is currently being given as ear-marked additions. There are different rates of return, depending on the age of the children and agreed to stay in the nursery. Since the introduction of the new income system for municipalities in 1986, it has been an objective that the childcare allowance should be incorporated into the income system in the long term. However, both these and previous governments have suggested that an ear-marked addition is most likely as long as the nursery sector is in an expansion phase, and as long as the supply is lower than what can be considered as full needs coverage. It is also a moment when the level of development in individual municipalities has been very different for a long time. Thus, a system of grants granted by objective factors may result in an unfortunate outcome and may, to a small extent, coincide with the level of the municipalities' actual expenditure on childcare services. Furthermore, the nursery sector, as known, has a large proportion of private enterprises. This has also been an argument for keeping up the system of ear-marked appeals. The question of framework transfers in relation to private kindergartens is whether one is willing to leave responsibility for securing the private part of the market to the municipality. It is fully possible to find solutions for privately driven kindergartens within a scheme where the provision is provided through the income system of the municipalities. For example, private kindergartens can have their right to leave. is regulated by various forms of cooperation agreements, so that the municipalities are obliged, under given conditions, also to support private kindergartens. The Ministry of Child and Family Affairs is familiar with a big message about kindergartens. The message's starting point is that the nursery sector is at a crossroads. The time for full needs coverage is approaching, and thus the deployment phase will be over. A central theme in your message will therefore be a discussion of the future sector framework. The message will discuss the future economic and legal framework and the question of whether the time has come to integrate the childcare provision into the income system of the municipalities. I ask you to understand that I refer to the kindergarten message when it comes to some pages and assessments in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e781	The Minister for Children and Family Affairs indicated that this should be discussed in the Kindergarten Communication. It's disappointing that it doesn't come in ours. But there's another interesting moment in the child and family minister's answer, and that's that the kindergarten sector is at a crossroads. That's right. There are numbers that indicate that for the first time in very many years the number of nursery places is decreasing. Around the country, the development of municipalities is actually opposite to what has been planned by Stortinget. In particular, cash support puts the situation at risk in municipalities with few inhabitants. So my appeal is that the Minister for Children and Family spends the extra time that the Government has allowed to work on the kindergarten message, to assess whether this negative development can be reversed. And in that assessment, I don't think putting the grant into the framework is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e786	I agree with Mr Konglevoll that putting the proposal into the frame today is not the right way to go, because we haven't reached full needs coverage yet. But to conclude that we're not going to do it in the future either, I'm assuming that at least the Labour Party has not, if the representative Konglevoll has done it. But I understood the representative so that she thought about today's situation. When it's claimed from the Labour Party's side, not just today, but quite often, that evolution goes back and we get fewer kindergartens, I have to say that it's only future that can tell us if the Labour Party is right in it. Currently, it has not happened. I am fully aware that in some municipalities where they have lost full coverage now, they do not need so many places when you receive cash support. It's a development that we're counting on. In most municipalities, there is still a need for more kindergartens, and I believe that when we calculate the new places in 1999, we will not have a decline, but a progress in several places. But that knowledge is actually cork oak, the representative Konglevoll or the Labour Party with today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e797	I will ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘5. In March 1999, the Ministry of Industry and Trade appointed a sample to propose requirements specifications for an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. Why did the Council of State only find room for a woman in a sample of seven, and what will he do to correct this?"
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e806	On 25 February, the majority of the population decided that the Government will appoint the company to develop and implement the plans for an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu as soon as and before 1 June 1999. This is a very short period of time in relation to the processes that it is necessary to carry out before the choice of a company can take place. I base the follow-up to the decision that there should be room for as much open and fair competition as possible between different stakeholders. Before the deadline of 1 June, the Government must also have some time to assess the various plans expected. The interested parties have therefore been given a deadline of 18 May to make their arrangements for Fornebu. In order for competition to be effective, it must be clear which requirements are imposed by the authorities on the plans invited to them. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is in the process of drawing up such requirements in the framework of its Decision of 25 February this year. In order to ensure the professional soundness of these specifications, both in the field of education, innovation and other industrial activities, a selection to propose such specifications was appointed shortly after the decision of the Stortinge on 5 March. The committee is required to present its position no later than 27 March, i.e. the next Saturday. This is necessary for the requirements specifications of the Government to be published on 7 April. This then gives current stakeholders the time from April 7th to May 18th to complete their plans, i.e. only six weeks. The selection consists of seven prominent members with experience from universities, research and business. It would initially have been desirable with more female members, but with the time made available for this process, there was no time for the usual experiments that were necessary to achieve the gender balance that such selections should normally have. The time limits imposed by the Government in this case were a dilemma for us. Ideally, you should spend a few extra days finding capable women who could sit on the sample. However, this would further reduce the map from a very short period of time available to stakeholders to submit their IT and knowledge centre plans. In this specific assessment, I chose to give priority to taking account of progress as quickly as possible. The representative Knutsen asks what I want to do to fix this. I would first like to stress that I normally place great emphasis on having a good gender balance in the samples that are appointed. In my opinion, as this sample has immediately finished its work, there is nothing that can be done in this specific case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e823	The same attitudes of the old men go again. You don't have time, and there are too short temptations to find capable women. Now I'm looking down here at the Minister for Gender Equality, who obviously hasn't heard the answer to Sponheim, where it turns out that he doesn't actually see any reason now to find capable women. He had a short time, so it was not possible to find capable women to go into such a selection – which, not least, the Minister for Gender Equality was to be the coordinator of the Government. But I just repeat: the old attitudes repeat themselves: short deadlines, it's so important that you couldn't actually find enough women. I don't have any additional questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e828	The criticism is justified, but I have to say that it is somewhat weakened when it is put forward by the representative Grete Knudsen, who has been so active in relation to giving such an impossible deadline for this work – which makes it work on blasting. It was therefore necessary to take part in the central managers of the institutions and universities concerned, etc. to reduce this sample, which is working under extreme conditions — in a very short time — and which were able to free up time at such short notice. That's why the result was like this. Had the majority of the Storting – of which the representative Knudsen was a part and of which the government parties were not part – given room for what is normal in such cases, this situation would not, of course, have arisen. We agree that old men's attitudes – I don't know what the age limit should be – should be combated, and then we get to hope that those who then become investors in Fornebu, not only manage the attitudes of the old men, both on this issue and on others.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e838	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘After Ford MC bought 51 pst. in the holding company Pivco Industries AS, it appears that the production of the electric car Think can be fully started by the end of the year. How will the Council of State facilitate the Norwegian electricity vehicle production in a large domestic market?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e847	The Ministry of Industry and Trade is committed to facilitating the international success of Pivco. However, I would like to clarify that the measures taken by the Government to promote the use of electric cars relate to electric cars in general. In order to promote the use of electric cars, it is essential to be early in life and to create a test market in Norway during a transitional period. Norway may become a leading country in the use of electric cars, assuming that our electricity is based on hydropower. A number of fiscal measures favouring electric car use in Norway have been implemented: exemption from tolls, free public parking and exemption from one-off and annual charges. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has taken the initiative of an informal interdepartmental working group which assesses further the organisation of electric cars in Norway. Critical factors are infrastructure, attitudes and incentives. Together with representatives from the Norwegian car industry, I visited Ford in Germany at the end of February. This signals that Norwegian industry is a serious and credible partner who is interested in increasing cooperation with Ford. The visit also focused on the possibilities for increased exports for the Norwegian car industry to the German car industry. Ford’s purchase of Pivco means that the company now has access to the Norwegian tool. This may be an important factor in ensuring that future production and development of Think will take place in Norway. The Norwegian Research Council shall organise an ideas on how to facilitate the deployment of electric cars in Norway, on 30 April this year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e860	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is positive that a number of measures have already been taken to promote electric car use. However, measures for the electric car have been discussed for seven to eight years now, and work has gone rather late. In view of the environmental benefits that are obvious, in particular in the case of extensive use of the electric car in the major cities, can the Council of State ensure that the promotion of the use of electric cars will be forced? And will the Council of State consider further measures, such as defining the car as a means of operation – van – and not as now, as a passenger car? We know that in Sweden, the state has granted 120 million. kr to promote the use of an electric car, and the money is used to build infrastructure – charging stations, etc. Can the Council of State imagine government appropriations? In Sweden, government has also set a good example of purchasing electric cars. Can the Council of State imagine that the state and the municipality of Norway are also setting a good example and rates of electric cars where this is appropriate?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e869	As I said in my first answer, the government is now busy establishing what we call a test market, or establishing good home conditions for the production of an electric car, especially because we will then produce an electric car in Norway. There is no doubt that the electric car will become a city car in the first place. It's about thinking about car solutions in the city in a completely different way, that's what's interesting about the development of this. And can we make Norway an exhibition window in some areas, for example. for finding new, exciting ways to use an electric car, it will obviously be very supportive of the car production that will now start up in Norway and a guarantee that this production and development of this car concept can remain in Norway. Many people believe that the electric car is not just a traditional private car, but that it can also be a rental car, which will in various ways be part of the ongoing public transport – different from what we traditionally know today in terms of car use. You can use your bank card, take a car at the railway station and put it away in a place that's suitable for it, and thus use the electric car in the cityscape, which will create a better environment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e879	I have the following questions for the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘The Minister for Foreign Affairs is concerned that Mr Öcalan is being treated fairly in the context of the trial. Information given in conversations with Öcalan’s lawyers provides a basis for believing that the case becomes a farce. It is important for the legal certainty of those involved that there is a continuous external pressure and that people from other countries are allowed to be present during the trial. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs take the initiative to ensure that there will be an opportunity for observers from Norway to be present before and during the trial?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e888	From the Norwegian side, we have made it clear that we expect an open and fair trial for Abdullah Öcalan. Since it became known that the PKK leader was imprisoned, we have worked actively to ensure international presence during the trial against him. We have seen it as natural to channel our commitment through the Council of Europe, which is the most appropriate forum for discussing human rights issues and for putting pressure on land in human rights matters. In line with this, we have worked to ensure that a broad parliamentary delegation from the Council of Europe can follow the case. We have good hope of Norwegian participation in this delegation. We have also worked to ensure that the Council of Europe's Ministerial Committee is present during the trial. This has now been confirmed and the Ministerial Committee will be represented by the Hungarian Presidency. Let me also mention, as Mr Valle will be aware, that a delegation from the Council of Europe Anti-Tour Committee met Mr Öcalan in prison at the beginning of March. The Norwegian Vice-President of the Committee, Ingrid Lycke Ellingsen, took part in these discussions. I would also like to mention that the European Court of Human Rights has taken decisions to ensure both Öcalans and the rights of the defence, and to give the defendant the opportunity to exercise his right of appeal before the European Court of Human Rights. Turkey shall keep the Court of Justice informed of measures taken to comply with the requirements of the European Commission on human rights. The central thing in this case is that Öcalan gets a fair treatment. In this context, an international presence is particularly important. A presence from the Council of Europe after the lines I have outlined here should enable the international community to obtain first-hand information about the situation of Öcalan and the trial against him. We will of course follow this matter carefully in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e903	I thank you for your answer. I see it as the Minister of Foreign Affairs is really concerned that it is going to be right here, and that it is important that there are international observers present. But what is also important is that, alongside parliamentarians, there are lawyers who can be present and assess the case and who can also look at what can be done in advance. The Minister for Foreign Affairs knows that I had a rather long conversation with Öcalan's lawyer Ahmet Zeki Okcuoglu, along with two lawyers. And there were shocking details in this conversation, which makes the image of Turkey as a state of justice fall quite a lot together. There are therefore good reasons to believe that this trial will be a farce. The Foreign Minister is sure to know these shocking details from the conversation we had. I understand that the Foreign Minister and the Government have their strategy of letting it go through the Council of Europe. That may be okay, but if the Council of Europe sends its representatives and other countries send their representatives, it may be a signal to Turkey that this case is really being taken seriously. Could it be appropriate, in the light of the fact, to send Norwegian observers, alongside the delegation from the Council of Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e912	I understand the representative Valle's question so this is two things. One concerns an extended parliamentary presence. Of course, the government has no objection to an extended parliamentary presence, but we believe it has been important to work actively to represent the Council of Europe. We're glad that's happened. That is what we will give priority to, although we would naturally also like to welcome the participation of other countries' parliamentarians. The second part of the question concerns, as far as I understand, support for Öcalan's lawyers. As the representative of Valle is well-known, and as is also known, Norway and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have funded a representative of the Norwegian Law Association’s MR Committee, which was in Turkey. We received his report yesterday, and we will of course go through that report carefully and look at what proposals you are making, and how this can be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e924	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘After the recent meeting of Prime Ministers in Pakistan and India, the Kashmiri population has gained new hope of resolving the fifty-year-old conflict. What will Norway contribute to peace and reconciliation in Kashmir?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e933	India and Pakistan have fought three wars since independence in 1947. Two of them have been about Kashmir. There are regular shootings on both sides of the control line in Jammu/Kashmir. Since 1990, when the conflict intensified again, it is estimated that more than 20 000 people have been killed. India and Pakistan have a special responsibility to cooperate on a political solution with which both the Kashmiri population and the governments of India and Pakistan can live. The Simla Agreement of 1972, which obliges the parties to arrive at a political solution through peaceful dialogue, provides an important basis for normalising the situation in the region. The Prime Ministers of the two countries signed, to which Mr Rise referred, in February a joint declaration on, inter alia: intensification of attempts to resolve outstanding issues, including the Kashmir conflict. We hope that the parties will show real willingness to negotiate when the declaration is to be followed up. In line with a number of countries, Norway is in good contact with both parties, including the United Kingdom. through bilateral consultations. If the parties to the conflict felt that Norway could make a positive contribution to this difficult process, we would of course consider this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e944	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. I think an extensive hand from Norway will be well received from both parties, based on the role that Norway has played in other conflicts, for example. in the Middle East. The human rights situation in Kashmir is very worrying. After opposition groups have intensified their fight in recent years, human rights violations have increased. It is very serious that 20,000 people have been killed in strikes, but since 1990, according to Amnesty International, between 700 and 800 people have disappeared after being arrested by the police or military forces. At the same time, we know that in the Indian-controlled part of Kashmir, organisations like Red Cross and Amnesty International are being shut down. Civil rights, such as the right to political organisation, are also violated. What can Norway do to exert pressure to ensure that humanitarian organisations and human rights organisations have access to the whole of Kashmir and respect for civil rights? And will Norway take an initiative towards the parties and offer to assist in a mediation role?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e955	I agree with Mr Rise that every extended hand from Norway should be welcomed. Now, unfortunately, it's not always like this. One of the problems in the Kashmir conflict is that Pakistan would like to internationalise it, while India does not. And India has had enough over recent years, for example. through the non-aligned movement, widely supported that this is a conflict to be resolved under that Simla Agreement, which restricts the international involvement somewhat. From the Norwegian side, we have always mentioned in bilateral contacts over the years that we are of course present and can be helpful. We have been participating in the United Nations Observatory for several years, so that there is probably no problem that it is known that Norway will make a contribution. The problem has been that India sees this as an internal conflict and therefore does not want international involvement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e962	Question 9 will be answered later, after question 35.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e968	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: «The car mechanics line at Laden High School cannot afford to receive a new car in gift from Nardo Bil AS in Trondheim, because the gift triggers a one-off charge of over $100,000. Does the Council of State believe that it benefits the educational capacity of the school that educational material is taxed in this way, and will the Council of State take the initiative to provide a provision exempting educational material from car tax?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e977	For the treatment of St.prp. No 1 for 1998-99 on tax, tax and customs decisions for 1999 adopted a derogation from the one-off charge for non-sale vehicles for educational purposes. The exemption is a codification of the ministry's long-term practice of granting tax exemptions to such vehicles made available for educational purposes. I also refer to questions raised by the representative Erik Dalheim in the Questionnaire on 3 February 1999. There are currently no rules on exemption from the tax on gifts. A general exemption from charges for vehicles given for educational purposes will result in a pressure to introduce exemptions for other types of charges and for purposes other than education. The progeny consequences of such exemptions could then be considerable. In addition, the tax exemption for gifts, but not for purchases, could justify charging speculation. On this basis, I consider an exemption from gifts to have unfortunate sides. The issue could be resolved by a conversion of the one-off charge from an entry fee to a registration fee. The Customs and Charges Directorate is working on a technical organisation for such a conversion. Extensive investigations are required before such conversion can be carried out, so that it is difficult to identify when the scheme can be implemented. The work is, however, a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e986	I thank you for your answer. Unfortunately, according to what the Minister of Finance said, it may take some time for such a scheme to be implemented. Technological developments in engine technology, the introduction of computer-based solutions in the construction of modern cars, are ripping. In order to meet these developments, it is essential that education at the car mechanics line in Trondheim and also in the rest of the country is realistic, and that students thus have the opportunity to practice their learning on modern cars. As the minister said, it is in the process of re-establishing the levy. But this will probably take time, and we will then have to come back to the matter as soon as possible in a Document No. Eight proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e995	I agree that it is important that education in this area is as realistic as possible. I also agree that technological developments make it necessary that the cars are not too old, if there is to be a realistic teaching. I think, however, that it is too difficult to address the representative’s questions, here and now – especially when there may be hopes that if not too long this problem is resolved by itself, by that it becomes a registration fee instead of reaching an entry fee. I can't, as I said in my original answer, fixed the time when it will come. However, the matter is prioritised, so no longer will be spent on this issue than is strictly necessary before any conversion can take place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1003	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘The Grand Duchy has recently adopted a general rule prohibiting the publication of names of suspects and suspects. Ecocrim now recommends that the Tax Directorate report so-called social stoppages that do not comply with the deadline, so that they become known in the media. How does the Council of State respond to the Ecocrim recommendation?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1012	Equation Act § 3-13 nr. 2. point (f) provides that the obligation of professional secrecy of the equality authorities shall not prevent the provision of information to the police or the prosecution authority for the purposes of criminal proceedings relating to infringements of the provisions of the tax jurisdiction. The conditions to be notified depend on the discretion of the authorities of the equation. The Tax Directorate develops guidelines for the exercise of discretion. Whether or not to notify an offence depends on its extent and on the discretion of the authorities of the equation as to the extent to which the taxable person has acted. So in the assessment, one will focus on its subjective relationship. For example, there will be: professionalism could have an impact. However, there is reason to stress that the person is acting in relation to the legislation in the administrative area of the equality authorities that is under assessment and not the person’s position in society. In this context, there is reason to stress that non-discrimination needs to be considered with great weight. The handling of the notifications by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the extent to which decided cases are made publicly known, I cannot go into it. The Minister of Justice has the political responsibility of the Public Prosecutor's Office, but only the King of the Council can give instructions to the Public Prosecutor's Office. As politicians, we should generally refrain from intervening in the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1021	I thank you for your answer. The question was essentially based on the premise that special groups should be addressed here – I realized that the Vice President of Ecokrim had it in mind, just for fear and warning for some. I think it is reassuring when the Council of State now says that it is important to ensure equality of law, so that not some groups are suspended in relation to others. Besides, it's like you have ways of dealing with that kind of crime. You are routinely treated, and you can also get a criminal tax if you don't make sure you're in order. I know that some Equations Offices routinely report everyone. It is, in my opinion, at least more tidy than ‘taking’ people out of their social status. Nevertheless, I have to say that in any case this must be a wrong use of police resources, when you have other ways of dealing with it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1028	As I stressed in my first answer, it must be a leading position to have equality of law – non-discrimination must weigh heavily on such questions as well. As I said, as politicians, we should not interfere in the handling of the notifications by the Public Prosecutor's Office. I agree that in this area there are other means of reaction, which Monsen had to deal with in her supplementary question, but I do not feel that it should exclude that some cases are nevertheless considered so serious that they should be reported and treated as ordinary criminal cases.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1038	This question, from the representative Anneliese Dørum to the Minister of Finance, will be raised by the representative Tore Nordtun.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1041	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘There are large differences in the value of residential properties in Nanestad, Ullensaker and Gjerdrum. This is also a problem elsewhere in the country. The current arrangement is based on historical valuations, which have since been continued with only minor adjustments. The County Tax Director of Akershus says that these problems can only be solved through new rules for the valuation of residential property. How far has the Ministry come with the preparation of new taxation rules?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1050	Experience has shown that the current tariff system does not meet the need for a uniform tariff base. Furthermore, the current Equation Tariffs do not take into account the similarity of the taxation of comparable properties. The basis for taxation has become too arbitrary and therefore unfair. These conditions advocate a complete revision of the tariff system. In June 1996, therefore, the then Labour Party Government promoted a large-scale notification of housing tax and housing tax principles, cf. St.meld. No 45 for 1995-96. The notification was addressed by the Stortinget in April 1997 on the basis of Innst. S. No 143 for 1996-97 by the Financial Committee. The Ministry of Finance is now working to follow up the comments made by the majority of the committees in this setting, for example. with regard to assessing the economic, distributional and administrative consequences of the conversion outlined in the suspension. The necessary data material has not previously been available to carry out satisfactory analyses at these points. Last year, a data collection process was carried out in cooperation with the Statistical Central Bureau. The Ministry has now obtained a good basis for making the calculations and analyses requested by the majority of committees in the adjustment. The Ministry is in the process of doing this and the calculations and analyses will be submitted to the Stortinget together with other estimates of conversions in the housing tax. For the time being, it is not possible to refer to a specific time of submission. I am in no way satisfied with the varying levels of the current tax system. There has been a great need for a new tax system for a long time, and I stress that work on the follow-up of the Innst. S. No 143 for 1996-97 is a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1061	I thank the Minister for the answer. I believe that the Minister of Finance here gave a concise explanation of the disadvantages of today's taxation rules, and of the strong need for uniform rules to be put in place, so that we can get the right values of equations, and not least compare them both within and across the municipal borders. As these unfairness between municipalities and within municipalities emerge more and more, there are more and more questions from the audience about where the new taxation rules will be. I note that the Minister of Finance replied that the ministry is doing well, and that they also take into account the majority vote on a new housing tax system to which the Minister of Finance referred was up for treatment in 1997, but I would like to ask the Minister of Finance that this matter should soon come to Stortingen, so that we can get it sorted out, and not least so that the authorities of the equation can get something safe to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1068	Tore Nordtun, who presented the question today, and I myself sat together in the finance committee then Innst. S. No 143 was released from the committee, and I think we have a common view of the unfairness of today's system, and the need for rapid change. There is no disagreement at all between Nordtun and me on this question. [[Restad City Council]] As I said, there has been a great deal of lack of data to allow you to work faster on the matter. This data collection process was carried out during the last year and was completed at the end of the year, so now we are able to follow up the matter more specifically. The matter is a matter of priority, and I understood Nordtun's request to speed up this matter, as a message from one of those who were present and made up a majority in the Financial Committee at the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1080	‘The Customs Administration of Kristiansand has begun to charge for regular checks on, among other things, ships and aircraft in the municipality of Farsund since the New Year. As a result, the West-Agder business sector outside Kristiansand receives an additional cost that is considered very unreasonable. Is such discrimination in line with this Government’s policy, or will the Council of State take an initiative to change this anti-district practice?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1087	This question requires me to briefly explain the legislation relating to the charge for customs business. According to the Customs Act § 7, Customs services may permit customs transactions to be carried out outside the opening and despatch period or outside the customs office. Such customs operations may require separate compensation to the State Treasury in accordance with detailed rules laid down by the King. Points 2.3.1. and 2.4.1. of the Customs Regulation indicate that a fee is to be paid to the State Treasury for customs dispatches and clearing and custody operations carried out outside the customs office or when the customs office is not a member of the customs office. The fee shall be paid on the basis of the applicable hourly rates and shall not exceed the cost borne by the Customs Service for the provision of the services. The hourly rates for recovered overtime were determined by the Stortinget in connection with the treatment of St.prp by the Stortinget. No 1 for the Ministry of Finance and Customs 1998-99 and is now DKK 205 per year. hour for 50 pst. overtime and NOK 275 per year hour for 100 pst. overtime. For cost and cloud allowances, reference is made to the Central Special Agreement ‘Regulatory journeys nationally on behalf of the State’, which was in force from 1 March 1998. Kristiansand District Customs office states that practices concerning the imposition of fees were stepped up in the autumn of 1998. The change does not involve discrimination but, on the contrary, results in the customs office now having the same practices as other customs offices in the country and thus fulfilling the customs law and the customs regulations’ intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1100	What the Minister of Finance has now informed me, I am fully aware of. That's not what I asked for. I asked whether such discrimination is in line with Government policy, or whether the Council of State will take an initiative to change this anti-diversity practice. I'm not talking about overtime, I'm talking about it being this way in West Agder that when you have to clear a ship in Flekkefjord, Farsund or Mandal in normal working hours, you have to pay for it. It is not necessary to clear a similar ship at daytime in Kristiansand, which means that it is now an incentive to centralise customs clearance to the large ports, with the consequences it has for business around in the other municipalities of West Agder. It also has the consequence that there could be more traffic on the roads, by now taking ships into Kristiansand to drop a cost that is calculated against transport costs from Kristiansand to one of those cities. At my discretion, there is a practice that I can't in any way understand is consistent with this government's policy, and my question is whether the Council of State will look at it, as I will definitely call it, district enemy practice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1109	What I have understood from information from Kristiansand District Customs Office is that enforcement of the current legislation has now been stepped up, so that in the light of previous practices, some neighbouring municipalities around Kristiansand have come out worse. But if you see the whole country as a whole, this is a non-discrimination. It is not only in the Kristiansand area that you have the disadvantage that if you live in another municipality or something from the local customs office, you will be charged a service fee. Whether or not this can be seen as unreasonable, I will not take my point of view. To me, it is at least an important point to practice the legislation equally throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1119	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘Today it is allowed to produce 80000 chickens per year. years without concession. The requirement is further, for animal protection purposes, a maximum of 23 chickens per year. square meters [[850 grams chicken]] Can the Council of State explain whether this is a correct interpretation?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1128	By law of 13 June 1975, No. 46 concerning the regulation of herds of acquisitions, the Stortinget stated that, without the permission of the Ministry, no one can establish or operate holdings of acquired pig and poultry holdings with a larger herd than those laid down in the regulation as a limit for the non-concessional operation, as provided for. Section 2 of the Law. The regulation on the regulation of the holding of acquired livestock lays down limits on the establishments for the production of pigs and poultry which may be operated without the authorisation of the ministry. The limit for plants with chickens for fattening which may be operated without the permission of the Ministry shall be those with a maximum capacity of 13 000 chickens for fattening, limited to a herd of up to 80000 chickens for fattening per year. years. The size of installations which can be established without a permit is initially regulated by standard figures established for animal protection purposes. For chickens for fattening, this requirement shall not exceed 23 chickens admitted per year. m2. Since a concession-free facility can accommodate a maximum of 13000 chickens for slaughter, the concession-free installation capacity is 565 m2. There's nothing wrong with having fewer animals per day. m2. One wishes to have a herd of up to 80,000 chickens kept for slaughter per year. years, while wanting to have fewer animals per year. m2 may be applied for a concession for extension of the installation beyond the concession-free limit of 565m2. The decision on such applications may focus on whether the extension leads to an improvement in the animal environment. This shows that the Ministry also places emphasis on animal protection in the context of the concession. The interpretation expressed by the representative Sandberg is correct to the extent that the provisions set maximum limits for the number of chickens for fattening per year. m2 and output per unit. years. However, it is not appropriate to interpret this as a minimum provision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1141	I thank you for your answer. It was at least clarifying on the point that there should be no discrimination in terms of area, whether one is in Trøndelag, in the South West or in the East. That's exactly what's happened in the Agricultural Governments in More and Romesdal and North Trøndelag. Another problem for the same producers is that in 1998 Prior had a market share of 85 pst. There are large producers, including: one in the North Trøndelag, known as Crowd Chicken, which has a slaughterhouse for 40 pst. operation. It is clear that this is ineffective and not very rational. Can the Minister of Agriculture promise to look at the monopoly situation of Prior and, where appropriate, to ensure that they also support private producers so that they are fully operational at their production facilities?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1150	To make it clear, the Council of State has not considered whether or not discrimination is taking place here, for it has no reason to claim or decide. Of course, with regard to the size of market shares in different parts of the country, they will have to vary. But it's free establishment up to a certain limit. It is when you cross the border that you have to deal with the legislation that has been laid down. Some may claim, of course, that this is ineffective, that there is a need to stay within these limits, but this is part of the overall agricultural policy, which requires a diversification of production in order to help strengthen and maintain the settlement. Here we are once again back to the old argument, which is equally current today, that agricultural policy in Norway should take more account of: production and efficiency, but at the same time be connected to what is involved in rural settlements.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1162	I will ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘The County Agriculture Board of Eastfold gave a concession to the Property Close on 15 December 1998. The terms of the Decision and the Shareholder Agreement respect the intention of the Law on Public Contracts and Concessions. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Agriculture reversed the decision. The form of the company was chosen because it promotes an early generation change and makes it easier to combine agriculture with other activities. Does the Council of State consider a categorical resistance to the AS form a good contribution to industrial development related to agriculture?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1171	There are individual differences in all concession cases, including in the case of acquisitions of agricultural property by companies. All matters have to be decided in concrete terms. I would therefore not like to express myself categorically. In isolation, of course, I have no difficulty in understanding that the AS form can be perceived as an appropriate form of ownership in the context of industrial development related to agriculture. The financial liability will be limited by the AS form and tax benefits can also be obtained. However, when I believe that the AS form is an unfortunate form of ownership in agriculture, this is because the form of ownership may in the long term mean that the agricultural property is owned by someone who is not linked to agriculture. The company form here implies that no owner will have an obligation to settle on the property. I find it difficult to see that the agricultural industry is served by the fact that agricultural property becomes purely capital goods where the owner is not resident, and the user is without ownership. So far, there has been a broad political consensus that we should have a long-term, sound use of agricultural land in Norway. Furthermore, there has been broad agreement on the importance of maintaining housing in the districts. The form of the company will not meet these objectives when the result may be that the owner, for example: resided on another side of the country and that the user is only employed by the company. This is a breach of a perhaps somewhat old-fashioned expression that wanted us in Norway to have a self-owning peasantry. I think we have experience to say that relative-based ownership provides better certainty for long-term resource use. Otherwise, I disagree with the representative of Nakkim that the concession notice in question respects the intentions of the law of no part and the law of concession.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1186	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have to say that when you read the refusal in connection with this case about Närum AS, it is not primarily a breach of the concession law or the law of no part that is the main reason. The reason is that there may be other owners who then indicate that they are not obliged to settle on the property. But it's a good thing that the authorities, through the concession terms, can set conditions, and you can do that, among other things. do so by triggering a concession obligation on any share sale. According to the assumption made by the County Agriculture Board of Eastfold, both the odel law and the concession obligation have been met. But what is important in this matter is that we can contribute here to a previous transfer. And I have to ask the council if he's not willing to look at this and if we can get a new arrangement where maybe you can give a time-limited concession over a period, so you can try it out. It is a good thing that both Sweden, Finland and Denmark have this system that takes account of the intentions we have set out here. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1193	The President will take the opportunity to recall the speaking time. It seems like we're maybe in the process of slipping something out here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1196	First of all, the letter of reply to that case points to the fact that you know that there may be a wish for a time-limited concession. Of course, we will deal with that, and we will evaluate such an application if it comes, without giving any answer to it now. It is then pointed out by the representative that this is practised in other countries, for example: in the Nordic countries. Denmark is an example. I can state that Denmark is now going through its legislation to see if there is a need to change something regarding the AS form in the legislation attached to the AS form itself in Denmark. In Norway, we do not have any legislation that is linked to legislation in the same way as in Denmark, and therefore it is even more difficult to practice. Moreover, I would like to point out that none of these countries have any illegitimate powers to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1208	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘For 10 years, the EU has refused to release American meat injected with growth hormones into its market. According to Stavanger Aftenblad on 16 March 1999, the EU seems to have to give in because there is not enough evidence to prove to the WTO about the danger of eating the hormone meat. 13 May 1999 runs out of time. What consequences would this have for Norwegian consumers, and if we were to be forced on meat from cattle sprayed with growth hormones, the Norwegian government might be involved?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1217	Norway has a ban on the importation, processing and supply of meat from farmed animals given hormones as growth promoters. In other words, the EU and Norway have similar interests in this matter. In the panel case between the United States and the EU, the WTO Dispute Resolution Panel concluded that EU legislation was not based on a satisfactory risk assessment. The recognition concluded that, if the EU is to maintain the ban, a satisfactory risk assessment must be carried out to address the risk of harm to human life and health. The EU has launched a number of analyses and has a deadline of 13 May 1999 to provide evidence of this. What will happen if the WTO finds that the EU documentation is not satisfactory is too early to say anything about it. The parties discuss different solutions. The action to be taken, if any, at the time of the decision will depend on the specific content of the decision. The government will assess the whole of the case when the EU-US dispute is settled. In determining any measures in Norway, consideration will be given to the consumer. Notwithstanding this case, a common EEA legislation on compulsory labelling of the origin of beef and veal is being drafted, which is planned to be made mandatory with effect from 1 January 2000. This labelling will enable the consumer to identify the origin of the meat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1230	I thank you for your answer. I wonder again that the Norwegian no-government is so passive in questions that are so decisive for Norwegian consumers. One should therefore only expect, see and hope that the EU will be able to solve the problems. One has no offensive policy in relation to himself. When one also knows how agriculture in the EU operates in relation to the use of genetic engineering, patents on life and problems associated with it, the Norwegian Government should have a very different involvement in this problem. I expect the Minister of Agriculture to have a clearer answer than what he had to me now on what policy the Norwegian Government has on this question. It is of great value to Norwegian consumers that there is something more than labelling.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1237	In this case, I find no reason to have critical comments on the EU and its position. This is consistent with the Norwegian attitude towards the type of food products that we are talking about today. There is no case against Norway; there has been a case against the EU. Norway currently has a ban, and we are of course doing so until a WTO decision comes in this context, not the EU, which Norway will have to deal with at the time when the premises for the end of this case are available. So I don't think there's any reason in this case to criticize the Government's attitude or action in this context, but it's done in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1246	I want to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘Up to several times a year, the Defense has sold so-called auctions, among other things, many motorised vehicles. Now it turns out that the defense wants to make more use of batch sales. This is a violation of current practice, and what will the Council of State do to maximise the possibility of purchasing a military vehicle rather than being sold abroad as a batch?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1255	The Defence Services Regulation class 7 regulates the rules applicable, inter alia, to: disposal of defence-powered vehicles. From the point of view of the Staff Regulations 763.07 shows that materials which are not considered to be of a sensitive nature can be disposed of by sale and the main principle shall be that they give the Defence maximum net dividend. The defence has several times previously sold vehicles as a batch including logistics. For example, vehicles of Willy’s Jeep, GMC and tonne Dodge have been sold as whole batches, but then as a larger joint auction. Therefore, batch sales cannot be considered as a breach of the current Defence Practice. The defense is now facing an imminent sale of land-roof vehicles. This sale has been made as a batch sale in the form of a package offer in the country and abroad. So the difference is that this time the defense is offering vehicles for normal sales instead of as part of an auction. Otherwise, it is likely that the Defense will sell Volvo field vehicles individually and in normal auction. The purpose of carrying out a disposal using the form of batch sales is to ensure the maximum economic net return on defence. In the case of batch sales, the defence is ensured that all material is disposed of immediately. In the case of single sales, the defence may risk remaining with a larger number of vehicles. A batch sale therefore means that the defence saves costs by avoiding the need for vehicles to be auctioned at regular intervals. This consideration should, in my view, outweigh the fact that individual individuals in Norway should be supplied with end-of-life military vehicles.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1264	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The Progress Party considers it very important that former military vehicles become as much as possible in the country, as they represent a high value for total defence by effectively ending up in the districts and being at the disposal of the Defence – either directly through HV teams as owners, or indirectly as relevant vehicles for requisition in a mobilization situation. I also question whether that's right, as the Council of State says, that it will bring in more money to sell them as a party instead of individually. Even I have been to some auctions, and I have seen the great interest it is in buying military vehicles. Prices have often been relatively high. Does the Council not see the danger that, in a given situation, other countries may use the vehicles/equipment in a situation where Norway is not served? And doesn't the Council of State see the interest there is among the population, teams and associations for this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1273	The Staff Regulations for the disposal of such defence equipment shall not prevent the future from being put out as both batch sales and normal sales to civilians. This will be a practice that can be used and needs to be clarified on a case-by-case basis. I mentioned in my reply that Volvo field vehicles will probably be sold both in the ordinary auction and individually, but I think it is important to stick to the main principle that applies to the disposal of such vehicles, namely to ensure the maximum net benefit for the defence. I will continue to take that into account, while assuming that the material offered for sale is cleared for this type of sale, so that we do not conflict, as the representative Bredvold may have suggested in his question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1283	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘According to the local press, the Ministry of Justice has instructed the police district of Sandefjord to carry out passport checks at Sandefjord Airport, Torp. This will encroach on a number of posts in the police district. Will the Council of State provide the police district with the necessary resources to carry out this service, so that no other important police tasks need to be de-prioritized?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1292	Paragraph 87 of the Foreign Regulation provides that passport checks are to be carried out on foreigners at the border crossing point at the Nordic external border. Sandefjord police district has had this task since Sandefjord Airport Torp was opened for foreign traffic. Traffic cooking over Sandefjord Airport Torp has led to an increased demand for police presence at the airport. In doing so, the Ministry of Justice has asked the police district of Sandefjord to submit a plan by the end of March for the police district to be able to perform its tasks at the airport. The Ministry of Justice will then, in cooperation with the Sandefjord Police District, assess the need for resource allocation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1301	I thank you for your answer. Sandefjord Airport Torp has evolved over the last few years to become an international airport. On 28 March, a new route will be opened by Torp-Amsterdam, and within that time the resource issue should be clarified. What will happen, moreover, is that from October 2000, all foreign travellers from Torp will have to be checked, under the Schengen Agreement, and this will require additional resources. The lack of important resources will necessarily go beyond the ordinary police, public order and emergency services. My point is that it must be unreasonable for Sandefjord police districts to cover this from their resources, because the airport meets the needs of an entire region – Grenland, Westfold and parts of Buskerud. I hope the Department will come up with a system in which Sanefjord Police District will be given the resources to carry out this important service.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1312	After the information I have on a Schengen implementation, much of the passport control will be cancelled on condition that flights are made to the same destinations as today. However, there is a point that there is a need for passport checks and therefore, in 1998, additional EUR 200 000 was added to the police district of Sandefjord, which continued in 1999. One prerequisite for getting these extra funds was to have a 100 pst. passport checks, which were not carried out in 1998. It is true, as the representative Monsen says, that there has been a formidable increase in traffic – which a former Minister of Transport would like to welcome – but the increase in traffic has also led to such challenges for the police mentioned. We have therefore asked for a plan, and on the basis of it, we will make an assessment with the police district on how the job can be done, as asked questions from the representative Monsen. It is in the nature of the matter that the police often have many priorities, and we will discuss this with the Sandefjord police district.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1324	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘The Customs Directorate will establish 6 new posts at customs posts in Eastfold to strengthen border control. Unfortunately, the Halden police will not have the resources to investigate further customs seizures due to reduced allocations to the border control group, as well as the loss of 2 homes in the police district in 1999. What can the Council of State do to ensure that an increased number of customs seizures can be followed up with police investigations to apprehend the backers?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1333	The Ministry of Justice is responsible for seeing the allocation of resources to the police districts in the context, and must thereby try to get a more equal police service for all the inhabitants of this country. The resource allocation to the police in Halden has been the subject of several question-time questions this session, and in my answer I must therefore address the issues that have been mentioned on these occasions. Although Halden Police District has lost two job homes for 1999, the district has a staff well above the average for Norwegian police districts. After these job homes have been withdrawn, Halden still has 2.0 police officers per year. The average national population is 1.8. It means, in practice, that Halden Police District has nine police posts above the national average. In addition, in the current year’s budget, the police district receives 500 000 kroner for its border crimping group and 1450 000 kroner from the Foreign Directorate in exceptional means of border control. Against this background, I believe Halden Police District is adequately equipped to investigate the issues arising from border control, either by the Customs Authority or by the police themselves. It is very important that the Halden Police Master has ongoing internal work to improve the use of the district’s resources.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1346	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is very important to see customs and police services regarding border control in the context. When police districts merge and we get more customs to control the large border crossings, the police do not have sufficient resources to investigate matters. The newspapers have recently been full of writings about the floods of smugglers, alcohol, drugs, etc. beyond the limits. The state councils themselves were in this border crimping group. What they're doing is they're investigating these cases and taking the backers. What's important is to get them taken, otherwise this shipment of contraband will continue to flow into the country. My question is therefore: should we not invest resources to take the backers of this illegal activity? When the couriers are taken, the backers can only find new couriers, and that doesn't help. Does not the Council of State think that we need to have a greater cost-benefit and a fair use of resources here, that we see this in context and take it into account in the budgetary procedure?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1355	The representative raises a series of important questions in his comment. Firstly, whether it's an important task to fight organized crime, and the answer to that is yes. We're working on getting method efforts started as soon as possible. Then you ask the question about how to work effectively. I am currently traveling to the various police districts to look at it, and I see in many places that you are very competent and effective. The situation is that the police in Halden are very competent in many ways, and they are also, as I said, manned by the situation in Eastfold. In addition, it turns out, from what I have now seen, that Halden is well aware of the percentage of clarification, the length of proceedings and the balances. In other words, there is every reason to praise the police district. The general challenge that the representative raised with organized crime, I take with me, because it is so serious that it can never be devalued.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1365	‘According to information from the Norwegian Association for Victims of Violence, a family with two minor children in Oslo was brutally assaulted in its own apartment. The family went to cover as a result of killing threats. The family has not received follow-up from the authorities in the form of psychological or other assistance. The family is even denied a violent alarm. What does the Council of State intend to do to enable the system of violent alarms to function and to help people who are subjected to such abuse?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1372	The violent alarm system for victims of violence and threats was launched on 1 September 1997 as a pilot project. A similar scheme was previously tested in Sweden. Target groups for alarming are mainly women who are threatened by current or former spouses and cohabitants, among others. when the latter have been notified of violence or threats, or when they have leave from or have ended in prison. In addition, older people exposed to violence or threats are an important target group. Men who are exposed to similar violence and threats may also apply for alerts, even if it is assumed that they are relatively few. The violence alarm is an alarm phone connected to the home. The alarm is triggered by a remote trigger worn by him and activated by pressure. All the sounds and conversations in the house or apartment will then be heard by the alarm centre, which can conduct a two-way conversation, if desired. For this reason, the violence alarm is inappropriate to use elsewhere far from home, because it depends on knowing where possible threats and abuses take place. The police will also have information about who is considered to be behind any threats or violence. It is the local police authority that assesses whether the allocation should take place within the guidelines on the use of such an alert. The police shall assess the specific case and the appropriateness of the alert. The police shall always proceed to the alarm point. The alarm system shall be evaluated during 1999, which is the last year of the probationary period. However, interim experience appears to indicate that the scheme has worked very satisfactorily. So far, 386 clients have been awarded a violent alarm, which is per year. 22 March this year in use 186 alarms, which means that some alarms have been returned to the police. The police are recommended to inform the potential victim of violence that the victims of violence and threats have been given an alarm. However, such information shall always be accepted by and made subject to the consent of the victim of violence and threats. However, it is assumed that in most cases such information will have a preventative effect. In addition, there is much evidence that the number of threats is falling radically after a violent alarm has been issued. In my opinion, the violent alarm system works very well, and I see no reason to do anything in this connection during the trial period. The alarm of violence cannot be used anywhere for reasons of violence and threat for technical reasons, but it is in my opinion a great help for some people who have the opportunity to use it. The question from the representative Danielsen contains too little information to be able to say anything concrete about an allocation in the referenced case could be for protection. This is not apparent from the question of whether the attack came after persistent threats to the family. It's a prerequisite for allocation that you know if there's such a kind of threat, and who's behind the threats. However, it is the police who decide whether to give a violent alarm. No restrictions have been imposed by the Ministry on the allocation beyond what technical prerequisites entail and what is considered appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1385	I understand that the newly appointed Minister of Justice Dørum does not have the opportunity to address this specific matter. But if the information I have is correct, this is not an isolated case either. And this I allow myself to come back to later. What has happened in this case is that people have introduced new threats to this family to make new attacks on them. The persons who are supposed to have done this are characterised as so dangerous that the family went to cover the first week after this happened. If what I say is right, does not the Council of State Dørum believe that there is reason to look into this scheme and not characterize it as very satisfactory? Is it not time to take greater care of the victims than of the criminals? And this is not just a violent alarm, but also this that they have not received any other help from any kind of support apparatus.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1394	It must be a misunderstanding if you think the police don't take into account the victims of crime. It's obvious to the police. It's their duty, and that's my impression that that's what they're doing. When I can't comment on a single matter, it's because it rarely happens from the Storting pulpit. That wouldn't be in principle right. But I understand the seriousness of the question. On a general basis, I said the scheme was successful. There are no restrictions on the department's use of this, i.e. there is a police operation assessment, and the police operation assessment I trust the police are doing. And if it turns out that it doesn't happen, we're in a different situation. Then we're in a more general situation. But my starting point is that the police are making such a police operation assessment, and that if you find it necessary, you react by giving an alarm. And that's also the case, as I said, that a specified and priority warning list should also be drawn up about who should be contacted at any alarm. It is very important that it is used, and I understand the insecurity that people experience when they are exposed to such events that I understand was the background for the representative asking his question to me.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1406	‘A Working Party set up by the Ministry of Justice gave a suspension on 7 February 1997 of the establishment of a Victims of Violence Fund to provide support for victims of violence. The Fund may be used to repair or prevent post-crime damage, as well as to research and development actions: [[e.g. reception for victims of violence, empowerment of health professionals]] What happens to the case, and when will it be available for political treatment?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1413	The Ministry of Justice set up on 30 May 1996 a working group to examine the establishment of a violent victim fund which could provide direct or indirect support for victims of violence. The working group was also to explore different models for the organisation of the action. The background was a Document No. Eight proposals of 5 October 1995 from the representative Jan Simonsen to ask the Government to set up such a fund. Following the proposal, all persons convicted of a crime that could result in a prison sentence would be subject to a one-off charge. The Justice Committee delivered its opinion in Innst. S. No 96 for 1995-96 that the introduction of a violent victim fund could be an instrument for improving the position of victims of violence. On 14 December 1995 the Government decided to request the establishment and financing of such a fund for the victims of violence. It is clear from the position of the Working Party on page 33 that the mandate was interpreted in such a way as to provide for the financing of a possible victim fund by means of a levy to be imposed on persons who are subject to a criminal law response. On 7 February 1997 the Working Party gave its opinion on the Ministry of Justice, published as NOU 1997: 11. The Constitution proposes the creation of a crime victim fund such as: shall finance the current State system of compensation for victims of violence and other measures to repair damages following crime, as well as research on crime, victims and adverse effects. The Fund is proposed to be financed by the fact that everyone who is charged with a criminal reaction – with the exception of the exemption under Section 69 of the Criminal Code – is liable to pay a fee equivalent to a single legal fee, per. 1 January 1999 at NOK 530. The fee shall not follow the number of infringements but the number of criminal proceedings. Furthermore, it is stated that the contribution to the fund is not to be regarded as a penalty. The proposal implies that the Fund will be allocated an estimated amount of funds of approximately ECU 20 million. One hundred million. kr per. years. The proposal was submitted for consultation by letter of 10 June 1997, with a deadline of 10 September 1997. One of the main objections of the hearing bodies is that the obligation to charge on the basis of legal considerations should not affect all types of offences equally. It is not right to impose on those who are charged a simplified charge for minor offences, a charge to a criminal fund. Furthermore, the relationship to Section 96 of the Constitution is of some perceived concern, as a charge proposed in the investigation will be close to a criminal law response, as it is a charge triggered by a criminal offence. It has been shown that any imposition of the levy must therefore be made by judgment. I am sorry that the matter has been dealt with in time. However, the case raised several difficult and fundamental questions, as mentioned above. However, due to the background of the case and the seriousness of the matter, I will come back to the matter before Storting in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1428	I thank the Council of State for a positive response. I think it is very nice that after being so short in his newly appointed position, he takes this matter seriously, and that he promises that he will return to it quickly. It is absolutely essential that those who are exposed to some of the most unfair things to be exposed to, violence and very often blind violence are taken seriously, and that society shows it by following up the decisions and fine words that have been made on the occasion of the case. So I thank you for a positive answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1435	The representative and I actually share the idea that many people who have been subjected to criminal abuse are often in the situation that they are being left behind. They often experience it as if – and ask questions about – it was really their fault. It's a totally unreal situation, and I assume that that was also the background for the Stortinge in its time discussing it. I have an engagement around this. I have met people who have been in the situation of life that the representative raises questions about. That is why I have also chosen to answer as I did, that I will do what I can to come back with the matter as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1523	These questions have been decided upon on a deferred basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1529	This question, from the representative of Rune E. Kristiansen to the Minister of Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Administration who directs the person concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1532	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘The left, as part of the Government, goes ahead of the pay bill in order to pay most to the most competent teachers, that criteria for individual wage fixing must become the subject of wage negotiations, and that there must be greater room for local differences. Is this Government policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1541	For example, in the case of tariff settlements: The government's responsibility to provide the basis for sound income policy. The government is set to continue the income policy cooperation between the country and the social partners, as shown by the attitude of the Arntsen Committee. The current system of wages and salaries in the state is based on the State Pays Committee of 1988, as presented in NOU 1990:32. The intentions behind the current pay and negotiation system include, inter alia: making the pay system more flexible with regard to local adaptations and improving the possibility of recruiting and retaining skilled labour. The system itself is flexible. But it is often the priorities of the parties that are crucial for how the system is used. Since we are now just ahead of the payroll, the Government will not go ahead with what powers, arrangements and profile will be used in the year’s settlement. It is the central contracting parties of the Ministry of Labour and Administration and the principal associations/Norwegian Teachers' Teams who are responsible for finding comprehensive and balanced solutions in the settlement of tariffs. In addition, I can inform you that the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research is now working on a major report on the recruitment of teachers, including on working conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1557	I thank you for your answer. I had basically expected an answer that would not really give an answer to what I raised in my question, not least because it is right in front of and in ongoing wage negotiations. But it was the Left as a party that raised the question and the issues ahead of the payroll. But I understand that the Council of State answers that the central settlement must be kept within the framework that will be laid, and I understand that. On the other hand, what I think it is necessary to get an answer to is whether the government is stuck on the model that has been drawn up in previous agreements. This is, of course, an interim settlement, so it may hardly be relevant for the Government to enter into substantial, fundamental changes in the pay system for teachers in this settlement in 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1564	It is difficult to answer questions about how far to go in this interim. Unfortunately, I cannot give any other answer than what I initially gave. I would point out that the system we have is flexible. The way it is used is crucial for how the result is. There are opportunities today. It is the payroll that will show how far you will go – I cannot give any other answer to the representative’s questions per. today. And just because we're at the entrance to the payroll, I hope that's an understanding that I can't go into any part of what's going to be affected there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1571	So we go to question 36.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1577	This question, from the representative Einar Olav Skogholt to the Minister for Social Affairs, is answered by the Minister for Health who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1580	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘When will disabled people who do not use home care but become dependent on family members receive free dental care?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1587	The county councils are responsible for providing free and outreach services to groups of elderly, long-term ill and disabled persons under the law of 3 June 1983 No. Paragraphs 1-3(c) of Paragraph 54 According to today's system, people with disabilities who receive regular care at home, i.e. at least once a day; the right to a free and up-to-date dental care. The detailed definition of this scheme follows from the provision for dental treatment in the public dental service of 24 May 1984 No. 1268. Since the entry into force of the Act and the Regulation in 1984, developments in the care sector have moved towards a more decentralised supply. Home-based services have become more prominent than before. However, the legislation on municipally funded dental treatment has not changed since 1984. This has in some cases led to the fact that the demarcation of those groups entitled to free dental treatment under the law does not appear appropriate. On the other hand, the law is built up in a way that makes it relatively flexible. According to § 1-3(e), the county councils may decide for themselves that groups of the population other than those directly prioritised in the law will receive a free offer. Per. Today, however, no county council has taken a decision that disabled persons who are close to family members should be entitled to a free offer. During an interview here in the Chamber on 7 May 1998, dental care was offered to groups of elderly people, long-term illness and untimely discussions. In my post I presented my plans for a revision of the Dental Services Act and the Regulations. I have entrusted the State Health Authority with the task of reviewing the regulation in relation to the municipally financed scheme. The investigation shall be completed during April of this year. The study is expected to discuss both the boundary between home care and other home-based services, and the border between clients receiving a municipal offer and other care needs that are addressed in other ways. In the light of the investigation by the Health Authority, I will assess the need for any changes to the legislation, including the future delimitation of the County Dental Service. In addition to the provision under the law on dental care, public expenditure on dental treatment for the adult population is covered in several cases by the benefits of public health. The benefits of public health to cover dental costs have recently been reinforced for some patients with disabilities. From 1 October 1998, the reimbursement scheme under the Law on Social Security, § 5-6, was extended to patients who suffer from rare medical conditions and who have a special need for dental care. Patients who fall under the scheme are fully covered. Detailed guidelines for the scheme have been developed by the Rikstrøgdeverket. Current proposals for changes to both the law on dental care and social security will be sent to the hearing in the current year. I will come back to any proposals for changes to the publicly funded dental offer in relation to the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1600	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I choose to interpret the Council's response positively. And I think it's good that we have a wide range in the care and care sector, so not everyone who needs help needs to be admitted to the institution. As we have seen, there has been a revolutionary development in care services in the last 20 to 30 years. And I have to commend all those who take care of and care for the sick, the disabled, etc. in the home – often without any compensation at all, pay for care, etc. In this way, I also think it is unreasonable that this group should not be able to receive free dental treatment, as is the case if you have home care. Can the Council of State confirm his unreasonable functioning of this system, and can he confirm that he will accept such a change of law when it comes to treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1609	The representative of Skogholt did well in interpreting me positively, for that was the way it was meant to be. It is precisely this that is the background for me to undertake a comprehensive review of the regulatory system and the law at this point. The reality has changed, the law has largely remained the same. There is a need for adjustments here. At the same time, I ask for respect for the process to go its way before I can announce what concrete changes it would be appropriate to make. But I expect that it will be this Council of State that is presenting the proposal, and I can guarantee the representative of Skogholt that the Council of State will support the proposals that are being promoted!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1619	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: «The funeral aid has remained unchanged for SEK 4000 since 1982, but from 1 September 1997 a need-tested supplement of up to SEK 8 000 may be granted. In any case, the survivors must claim both the 4000 kroner and any additional amount in some municipalities themselves. Does the Council of State consider that the tomb aid is well known, and does the Council of State consider it right that the survivors themselves should take the initiative in order to have the amount paid out to them?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1628	The tomb assistance is a one-time grant that is given when a member of the population dies, to cover some of the expenses of the tomb. The amount of the benefit is determined by the Stortinget in the context of the budgetary procedure. The legal base for all is now NOK 4 000 and, to which the representative of Are Næss refers, he has been since 1982. From 1 September 1997, a need-tested supplement of up to DKK 8 000 can be provided to secure a worthy burial for those who cannot pay for the burial themselves. The supplement may also be given to stillborn children. As in other jurisdictions, the individual has the primary responsibility to take care of his or her interests in the public interest by informing himself about what rights he or she can have and to make demands. This relationship I don't think will be relevant to change. But when that is said, I would like to stress that I see it as an important task for the ministry and for the social security system to work so that the individual can get the best possible help with this. At each turn of the year, national ads inform us about changes in rules and changes in bets osb. in the fear of the people. Otherwise, one in the social security office may receive brochures on the various social welfare schemes. I would also like to mention that they are adding information to social security offices in direct contact with members. They should also inform about unsolicited performances when they see that this may be the case. In the social security office, you will also receive help in making demands for benefits from the social security system. In connection with death and burial, there are a number of laws, regulations and schemes that may be relevant. The fewer people naturally care enough to have an overview of this in their daily life. The goal must be that people get information when they need it. In order to meet the need for information in relation to deaths and tombs, there are several brochures. In the social security office, a brochure on funeral assistance can be obtained. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has its own brochure, «When one of our nearest doors». It is sent out to those who ask for it, mainly hospitals, hospitals, etc., tombs and individuals. The Swedish National Agency and the Ministry’s brochures are now under review. The Funeral Bureau Association has created its own brochure, «When you lose someone close to you», which is distributed through member bureaux. In most cases of death, a tomb is responsible for a larger or smaller proportion of the tombs. The Tombs also carry out an important information task for the survivors. They inform, inter alia: on rights and obligations vis-à-vis public authorities. The system with proven additions is now being evaluated by the Rikstrygdeverket. Should it prove to be a lack of information about this scheme, action will be taken to remedy it. Finally, let me add that the Swedish National Agency is now working on its own information and communication strategy. The problem is how the social security system can be better than today. A listening note will be sent, among others. to user organisations, external etats and county municipalities. In the light of the feedback provided by the Swedish National Agency for Information and Communication, a dedicated information and communication management document will be developed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1647	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that both the system of needs-tested supplements and information, among other things. whether this is being evaluated and looks forward to the outcome of the evaluation. However, with regard to the rights-based gravitational assistance, I see it as really unnecessary and not desirable that the survivors should actively promote claims for something they are actually entitled to. The survivors are in a special situation, and my question is whether the Council of State will consider examining some form of simplification, so that this benefit can possibly be paid to the nearest family member without having to take the initiative itself with the social security office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1654	I agree with what the representative Are Næss pointed out here, that the survivors are in a special situation. There is a lot of sense as well as practicalness to handle. Today I have been briefed on how the legislation is per year. the date and the manner in which the information is to be provided. But I also underlined that there is an analysis work here for improvements. In that context, I thought it might be appropriate to consider what Are Nose here points to. Finally, let me just say that there is a sub-consumption of the tomb aid in relation to the annual budget. This could mean that people don't benefit from the scheme, but it could also mean that they don't know what arrangements exist.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1666	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «Oppland Arbeiderblad wrote on 27 February 1999 about a Bosnian dental practitioner residing at Dokka with education and several years of experience not being able to practice because he lacks a special Norwegian authorization course. He has been waiting to get into the course for five years because of insufficient capacity. The countryside can soon stand without a single dentist, and he is eager to practice his profession. When can such a course be started so that he can be approved and enter into work in a profession in which there is a need for professionals?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1675	Bosnian dentists have been able to obtain a temporary licence as dental practitioners for several years. In order to obtain such a licence, they must work under the responsibility of an authorised dental practitioner and in a limited professional area. In several states, Bosnian dentists have had such a license. Dental practitioners from non-EEA countries must have additional training in order to be regarded as professionally equivalent to Norwegian education. To date, additional training has taken 2-3 years, and there has been limited space for new candidates. In the action plan for healthcare professionals 1998-2001, one of the measures is to facilitate the work of immigrants and refugees with training from outside the EEA territory in Norway within their field of competence. In view of the situation on the dentist market, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has set aside 0.8 million. DKK in the 1999 state budget for additional training for dental practitioners from outside the EEA territory. This course is one-year-old and is tailor-made for these dentists. The odontological faculties of Bergen and Oslo are now working together on a teaching system. The 1999 grant shall cover the costs of the planning phase as well as the price costs of a minimum of eight foreign dental practitioners starting in August 1999. It's per. Today approx. 30 dental practitioners from outside the EEA territory who have been registered with valid documentation at the County doctor in Oslo. For admission to the additional course, the applicants concerned must have taken a theoretical test and a clinical examination. The selection takes place on the basis of documentation and results of the tests and tests. The selection is jointly carried out by the Odontological Faculty at the University of Oslo and the University of Bergen and the County of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1684	I thank you for your answer. I'm afraid that with a limited license to Bosnians, it doesn't solve the problem, but that getting to education is the only thing that solves this in the long term. In the countryside, there is often no more than one dentist in the public dental clinics, so it will hardly be such that one can work with another with education approved in Norway. There are different instances inside the picture when foreigners come here. What I'm asking is, where is the cooperation between the departments in terms of the mapping of competences and priorities so that as much as possible with approved education where they come from, can it be approved here as well? We need some health professionals. It would be desirable to identify this and be able to give priority to it in the light of its expertise.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1693	First the Bosnian dentists. I agree with the representative Gravdahl that a temporary licence is not a solution where there is no other dentist to work with. It will be necessary to take the additional training required and to receive training which is equivalent to that of the Norwegian language. Just this problem we have now made a solution, which means that you don't have to go into the existing dental study and be there from two and a half to three and a half years, as the scheme has been, and that has been a very limited scheme because there have been so few who have escaped. Now we get this tailor-made and more compressed arrangement. I think that will solve the problem pointed out by the representative of Gravdahl. So to the general question that is now raised finally. It is a priority area of the action plan for health professionals to facilitate the provision of facilities for immigrants and refugees with education, so that they can become effective in Norway. We'll follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1703	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Surveillance reports from county doctors in a number of counties show that several hospitals break the waiting period guarantee. Patients with a guarantee are not offered treatment elsewhere if they have waited more than three months. It has also been found that patients who are covered by the waiting period guarantee are not informed that they are entitled to treatment within three months. What will the Council of State do to ensure that hospitals follow up the waiting time guarantee to patients?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1712	The county doctors carried out a comprehensive monitoring of county and hospital procedures for compliance with the Waiting Time Guarantee Regulation in 1998. The supervision was therefore not concerned with whether the county was in fact able to comply with the requirements laid down in the regulation, but with the procedures established to comply with the provisions of the regulation. There are three main supervisory issues — first, how patients in the county are prioritised, second, how patients and referral doctors are informed of the outcome of the assessment of the treatment envisaged, and thirdly, how the warranty breaches are handled. The reports have now been sent from county medical doctors to the State Health Authority. The Health Authority will also provide a written summary of the reports, and the summary will be sent to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in a short time. The reports from the county doctors show that not all parts of the waiting period are followed up on the basis of the assumptions. This applies in particular to the data management of waiting lists, but deficiencies have also been identified in the information provided to patients and reference doctors. The reports also show large differences between the counties in the guarantee allocation, indicating that the award criteria are interpreted differently between county municipalities. The individual county doctors also follow up the detected fractures in the respective county municipalities. Where a breach of the regulation has been detected, the county doctors will ask for a plan to rectify the situation. A time limit shall be allowed for the receipt of such a plan. This time limit is set differently in the different counties, depending on the local circumstances and the infringements involved. If this is not followed up, the county doctor will usually make a new contact to the county council. If, after a specific assessment of the situation, the County Doctor finds that the necessary improvements are not being made, the matter may be referred to the Health Authority. The health surveillance will then assess whether the circumstances indicate that the application is to be notified. In addition to the fact that the Health Authority and the Ministry will continue to work on the specific supervision, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will follow up on compliance with the waiting period guarantee in several ways. In the past, the Ministry has noted some significant variations between the states in the guarantee allocation. In order to ensure better harmonisation in the use of guarantee criteria, the State Health Authority has invited the relevant specialised associations of the Norwegian Medical Association to develop professional-specific interpretations of the waiting-time criteria for the treatment guarantee. Health supervision expects the professional community to provide feedback on the status of this work during the current six-month period. The Ministry is closely involved in the general development of waiting list patients, and continuous efforts are being made to improve the data base and reporting of the waiting list situation at national, regional and county level. Through general and special grants, state authorities also contribute to capacity growth in the hospital sector. Let me end by mentioning that the Department will examine procedures for the interaction and exchange of information between patients, general practitioners and hospitals in connection with the introduction of free hospital choice. In this work, it will also be central to establish procedures that ensure patients and general practitioners information about the status of patients in relation to the waiting period.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1733	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Speaking of free hospital choice: Nobody said I could choose hospitals, said a patient – one of many. This was in Rogaland. I think it has to be an obligation for the treating hospital, what gets the referral, to inform you that you have the right to choose a hospital elsewhere, when we're about to introduce this. We obviously need a change of mind in hospitals to ensure that patients have rights to be respected. Has the Minister of Health considered whether the wide differences in the practice of waiting time regulation can actually be due to the fact that the guarantee is not taken seriously because the breach of it does not have any consequences for hospitals? The Health Minister has probably, as I have, noticed that not only patient organisations, but also professional associations are increasingly proposing the legal right to treatment. If such a statutory right could be made individually, based on medical judgement in the individual case, it could be compensated for any legally binding waiting guarantee, to which I see – and know – the Council of State has critical comments. Would the State Council consider such a different treatment right?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1742	First, to that representative, Hoegh and I agree with the heart, namely that free hospital choice requires both a change of attitude and information requirements, and it requires available information across hospitals, as opposed to the information stream that is largely going up and down the system today. This is a crucial prerequisite for the proposal on free hospital choice presented by the Government. So until what we're probably a little bit more disagreed about. In terms of guarantee allocation, I don't think we disagree that the differences between the states are a problem that needs to be taken seriously, and breaches of the regulations should have consequences. I've explained how the county doctors will follow it up. We now look at the data from the Patient Register that there are less differences between the counties and the hospitals than it was before. This suggests that this is now being taken more seriously. My view of the final questions raised by the representative, Høegh, about the guarantee and right to patient treatment lies in the proposition on the patient rights law, which I have submitted to the Stortinget. It would be alarming if I had different opinions than what I've been preparing in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1754	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘I refer to Innst. S. No 29 from the Social Committee. [[1995-96]] In the examination of the suspension, the Stortinget agreed that the Government would contribute to the Haugesund Sanitätsforenings Revmatismosykehus becoming the centre of competence for post-treatment for specialised rehabilitation of revenators as Rogaland County has decided to apply for. What will the Council of State do to implement this Decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1763	In September 1994, the Ministry asked the county councils of Health Region West to include the provision of revenative care in the regional planning work to develop an appropriate service for revenmaticians in the region. A point among others: the need to assess how one in the region could make the best use of the overall service offered to this patient group. Rogaland County took a decision on 10 October 1995 that the Haugesund Sanitätsforenings Revmatismosjukehus was to be Rogaland's only centre for revmatology and rheumatic surgery, and to apply to the Department for the establishment of a regional centre of competence. Specific funds were provided in the 1996 budget for measures to rehabilitate and strengthen the supply of rehabilitaters. The request for funds for this measure was made by the county and prioritised as No. 5, i.e. the last of the measures requested. Furthermore, it was shown that through regional planning, an aim would be to clarify the target audience and needs for services, as well as the need for staff and beds. The Ministry found room for granting grants to three of the measures applied for, those which the county had given the highest priority. Furthermore, the Ministry asked for clarification of the tasks planned for the Haugesund Sanitätsforenings Revmatismosykehus, and the Ministry stated that it was not clear through the regional health plan that the hospital was to cover tasks for the whole health region. The proposal for a regional centre of expertise for specialised rehabilitation at the Haugesund Sanitätsförenings Revmatismosyksehus was raised in the Regional Health Committee and has been investigated by a regional trade union group, which has submitted a position. The Regional Health Committee of the Western Health Region examined the position on 13 February 1998 and decided to set up a centre of expertise for specialised rehabilitation of revenators on the basis of the position of the Scientific Panel. Rogaland County Council considered the position in the county council 2. – 3 June 1998 and joined the decision of the Regional Health Commission. The municipality of Rogaland applied in 1998 for funds from Chapter 720, Item 62 — grants to strengthen county rehabilitation activities and the provision of revenmatics. These funds were allocated to the counties on application. Rogaland County did not want this centre to be part of the county offer, and therefore the application was not to be considered as part of the county municipal application. Consequently, the application was not prioritised in the county's request for funds. No funds were therefore allocated to this centre for 1998. For 1999, earmarked funds for rehabilitation and measures for revenators are allocated to counties according to objective criteria. Rogaland County has been allocated an estimated $8.7 million. kr of this appropriation, which the county can freely give priority to various rehabilitation services. Funding for regional cooperation actions has facilitated the establishment of priority measures in the region. Resources for regional cooperation measures have been deployed in the framework of the county municipalities since 1999. This centre must therefore be financed as other cooperation measures in the regional health plan. No specific funding has been allocated to regional centres of excellence for any disciplines. It will therefore be up to the county councils in the region to implement this measure. On this basis, I believe that I have shown how the State has contributed to the realisation of the Centre of Competence. It will be for the County Council to assess whether this action will now be prioritised within the resources put at its disposal by the State.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1776	I thank you for the answer, which, of course, I am not satisfied with. I refer to the decision that was made in Stortinget, as I mentioned in the question. It says: ‘The decision asks the Government to assist the Haugesund Sanitätsforenings Revmatismsjukehus to become the centre of expertise for the post-treatment of specialised rehabilitation for revenators as Rogaland County has decided to apply for.’ So the size has asked the government to do this job. It's not about the usual means of distribution, as Rogaland County and I understand this, so here we feel that the Government has a responsibility. The Ministry has sent a letter to Rogaland County, dated 25 February 1999. It ends with: ‘There is no specific funding for regional competence centres in any disciplines.’;» It is also, I think, contrary to the decision taken by the Stortinget in 1996. Can the Minister confirm that the decision taken in 1996 does not rely on the usual resources allocated to the county council?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1791	The decision, as the Stortinget did, was to ask the Government to help Haugesund Sanitätsforenings Revmatismosjukehus become the centre of competence, etc. I have now explained how this involvement has taken place, through professional investigation requirements, the anchoring of the regional health committee and the allocation of funds over two channels, on the one hand, to regional cooperation measures, which from 1999 are within the framework of the county councils, and on the other hand through earmarked funds that go to the individual county council for various rehabilitation services. Rogaland County has seen a clear increase from 1998 to 1999 in these funds, and I believe that the Ministry has helped to achieve the intention of this Decision. It is now up to the county council in cooperation with the other county municipalities in the region how they will concretely realise it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1799	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The treatment of the Fluerli power plant concession in Rogaland has taken a very long time. The Ministry of Oil and Energy promised in June 1998 that it would be finalised in the autumn of 1998. This has not happened, and now the Ministry of the Environment has also demanded that the plume be emptied to the level it had 81 years ago, in order to carry out archaeological studies. This delays the process and will lead to large cost increases. Will the Council of State ensure that this optimal hydropower project is not further delayed?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1808	The matter referred to by the representative, Mr Vaksdal, concerns the concession treatment for upgrading and supplementary regulation of Fluerli power plants in Rogaland. In this context, the Ministry of the Environment has asked the Ministry of Oil and Energy to include conditions in the concession on archaeological excavations in the magazine area. The background for this is that this has been shown to be stone age settlements that are the only ones that are currently known in the mountains south of the Lightfjord. These residential areas are therefore of great cultural and scientific value. I cannot see that the Environment Ministry's recommendation needs to delay the project further. On the contrary, the Ministry has stressed that the development progress should not be affected by the excavations. We have therefore assumed that the excavations will be carried out this summer, when the warehouse has nevertheless been drained to the level it had 81 years ago. As I understand it has also been common to drain the water 19 meters below this level for all the years that the regulation has been in progress. The details of the excavation programme are laid down by the Archaeological Museum in Stavanger. The programme involves excavations over a six-week period at an estimated cost. 1.3 million. kr. The costs shall normally be borne by the builder. The museum's decision has been confirmed by the Riksantikvaren. The Government is likely to deal with the concession case before Easter and will, of course, ensure that the decisions under the Cultural Memory Act and the Waterways Regulations Act are coordinated in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1819	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is clear that this has already resulted in major postponements, and it will still do so. I think there's something strange about a government that says it's going to bet on clean and renewable energy, always putting new chains in the wheels for this good hydropower project. Further suspension of this build-up will result in the need to import even more polluting coal power from Denmark. Is not the Council of State concerned about this, and can the Council of State guarantee that this will not stop again if the archaeologists find anything of interest?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1824	Let me first say that we are in the situation that this magazine is normally dropped to the level it had 81 years ago in the summer, when the excavation is to be done. In this way, I cannot see that there is a basis for claiming that this imposed will further delay the process. I agree that it is important to have clean, good and renewable alternatives to both the import of coal power and the construction of old-fashioned gas power plants in Norway, but it does not have to be at the expense of taking into account other important environmental values. Here, we're talking about identified stone age settlements, which are the only ones that are now known in the mountains south of the Light fjord, that is, a very important cultural memory. But let me underline again: we believe that since the magazine is normally dropped to the level it had 81 years ago in the summer, this will not delay the process.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1832	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘1. On April 1998, I raised the question of pollution in Frierfjorden and received the following answer from State Council Fjlangenger: ‘SFT will now, in cooperation with the Environmental Status Committee of Lower Grenland, assess why dioxin levels are still so high. When we get better knowledge of the sources, I will focus on implementing measures.’ What has the Council of State done in the year that has gone on to take action against this pollution?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1841	To solve the problems that dioxins and other health and environmental chemicals in general cause, I have made sure to give priority to work both to reduce new emissions and to clean up soil and sediment contaminated by past emissions – the so-called old sins. These areas have been given increased priority both in the ministry and in State pollution control. In this year’s budget, increased appropriations have been made both for the investigation and eradication of ‘old’ sins and for staff in the SFT in the chemical field in general. In Frierfjorden, the pollution situation has generally improved significantly over the last 10 years as a result of the extensive measures taken by both industry and municipalities to reduce pollution inputs. However, large quantities of dioxins have been released in Frierfjorden in the past, and as late as 1989 the release of dioxins into water from Hydro Porsgrund was about. 500 grams per day. years. Although emissions are now reduced to 1 gram per gram. years, it will take a long time before the level of pollution is at an acceptable level. Hydro Porcelain is required to investigate further the potential for further reducing dioxin emissions by 31 December 1999. Analysis of bottom sediments from 1997 shows that the concentration of dioxins has been reduced to less than half the concentration in 1989. Although the sediments are still to be classified as very heavily contaminated by dioxins, we see great and constant improvements. It was therefore unexpected that the level of environmental contaminants in fish and crabs has not shown a greater decline. Therefore, the SFT has re-examined all available evidence on the basic pollution situation in the island of Heresy to find answers. One conclusion is that country-wide dioxin leakages cannot be ruled out, and this needs to be reviewed. The SFT now assesses whether Hydro should be required to carry out additional studies on ground contamination from its old landfill on land. Another conclusion is that we do not know enough about how dioxin is traded in the fjord system and thus affects fish and shellfish. SFT is working with the research communities and industry to develop an offensive programme to improve knowledge. At the same time, efforts are also being made to further improve the surveillance programme for Grenland in order to provide an even better overview of the introduction of dioxins into the area. Cleaning up marine sediments is always very expensive. For example, the cleaning up of PCB contaminated marine sediments in a limited area outside Haaconic Protection will amount to approximately 80 million. kr. Especially expensive and technically complicated is it, like here, when the whole fjord area is contaminated. It is also not useful to implement measures before stopping all inputs from one country to another. I am still concerned that Frierfjorden is so contaminated, and – as I said in my reply last year – attach great importance to our further efforts to reduce the level of dioxins and other pollutants in the fjord as soon as we have sufficient knowledge of the sources. Although considerable progress has been made in the course of the year, we still lack sufficient knowledge. Possible inputs from land-based sources and the way dioxins are placed on the market in the fjord system and thus affect the level of dioxins in fish and crustaceans. It is therefore necessary to carry out further investigations into these complex issues before we can assess concrete actions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1856	I'll be grateful to the Council of State for the answer. That was a very general answer. I think it seems that the Council of State and the authorities have not done so much concrete to improve the situation during the year that has passed. At regular intervals, the interest in this issue comes up through the media, and it is a little regrettable that there has been such a small amount of activity on the part of the Council of State during the time that has passed. I can mention that the Telemark County Municipality has been led by a so-called INTERREG IIc project in the North Sea around pollution in ports and from ships, where there are participants from several countries around the North Sea – a so-called Green Port North Sea project. I also think that this work should be of interest to the Council of State, and I would like to ask if she intends to engage in this project. Finally, I would like to say that a minister for environmental protection in a government that calls itself environmentally friendly should show greater capacity for action and come up with some concrete projects to move on and get something done about the pollution situation in Frierfjorden.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1867	I am a little surprised that the representative Hegna chose to characterize my first response as general, taking into account that I reviewed a number of the concrete measures we have taken. I fully agree that action is important, but I think it is equally important to stress that action produces the best results when it is based on facts and knowledge. It is that we still lack knowledge about Frierfjorden. Among other things, we lack knowledge as to whether it can still be obtained from land-based landfills that ensure that the concentration of dioxins does not go down faster than it does. We also lack knowledge of this, for example. is the old landfill of Hydro that causes this. That is why, together with the SFT, we have launched a series of thorough studies to find answers to these questions. Only when we have these answers will we know who the polluter is, will we be able to follow the polluter-pays principle and implement the measures that will be more sensible in the situation we have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1877	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: «Law of 10 June 1977 No 82, the Law on Motor Travel in the Land and Watercourses, states that municipalities cannot grant general permission for the use of boat engines on seas that are less than two square kilometres. All types of boat engines, including low noise and minimally polluting electric motors, are treated equally. Does the Council of State consider this to be appropriate in relation to the use of electric boat engines?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1886	The Motor Traffic Act covers all types of power-driven means of propulsion irrespective of the type of energy the engine is powered with. Not only internal combustion engines and electric motors, but also other types of engines that may become applicable in the future, fall within the scope of the Act. The purpose of the law is to protect the natural environment and promote well-being. The term ‘natural environment’ includes both land, plant and animal life and other environmental values, such as clean air, clean water, landscape values, tranquillity and tranquillity. The concept of ‘promoting well-being’ implies that the law should cater for recreational, outdoor and natural experiences. An engine vessel will have about the same use potential whether it is powered by an internal combustion engine or an electric one. Although electric boat engines have environmental advantages in terms of pollutant emissions and noise, the use of vessels with such engines may nevertheless conflict with natural experience and values, such as: by interfering with bird life. Therefore, following the assessment by the Ministry of the Environment, electric motors are not exempt from the provisions of the Motor Traffic Act. The third paragraph of Section 4 of the Motor Transport Act contains a general provision that motor vehicle traffic on lakes is initially not permitted. However, if there are specific reasons, the municipality may authorise the movement of motor vessels on such lakes, either in general by means of a regulation in accordance with § 5(b) of the Act or by way of a letter of agreement in accordance with the Act § 6. Specific reasons may, for example: need to be transported to hotels, tourist stations or cabins situated in such a way as to be dependent on a boat. The municipality may grant authorisation under conditions such as: speed limitations and limitations of engine size or noise and emission levels. In this way, the municipality may facilitate the use of electrically operated vessels to meet the specific transport needs justifying the movement authorisation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1893	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which unfortunately was not very positive for my question. Does not the Council of State see that an electric boat engine that does not sound, that does not pollute and that has a maximum speed slightly faster than the main thrust, allows all groups of people who for some reason do not have the possibility to manually drive a boat, to experience nature and the pleasure of boat life?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1900	As I said in my first answer, I believe that although electric boat engines do not fight or emit exhaust gases, they will have consequences for the environment, for example. in relation to bird life. I still agree that it is important to have an exception to a general rule, although I do not believe it is natural to have electric boat engines as a general exception. However, if it is still the case that some people have problems and do not have the opportunity to develop manually, the municipalities have the opportunity to make exceptions in accordance with the paragraphs of the law that I mentioned instead.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1911	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: «In the spring of 1996, the size gave its principal connection to the construction of two gas power plants. The concession was granted to Naturkraft AS. SFT is set to process the emission permit. In their application for an emission permit, SFT has set the requirements so high that they are in fact undermining Storting’s decision. Does the Council of State consider it within our parliamentary system that decisions taken by the Storting are actually stopped by the SFT?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1920	On 21 January 1999, the State Pollution Control Authority (SFT) granted natural force emission permits under the Pollution Act for the planned gas power plants in Kollsnes and Kårstø. The decision of the SFT has been appealed against by Naturkraft and several environmental protection organisations. The complaints are currently pending in the SFT. If the SFT does not consider it appropriate to amend the decisions, the case will be organised and forwarded to the Ministry of the Environment for review and final decision. In this context, I do not think it is right to address the realities of the SFT decision. However, I would like to comment on the role of the SFT in this matter: on 5 June 1997 the Ministry of Oil and Energy granted the Natural Power concession for the construction and operation of gas power plants under the Energy Act. The decision clarified that the Energy Act concession is not a permit for emissions, nor for CO2. It was shown that the issue of emission permits is decided by the pollution authorities under the pollution law. Under the law, the SFT as a pollution authority is obliged to make a thorough assessment of this issue. The size has dealt with the gas power case on several occasions. With regard to the treatment in the spring of 1996, to which Mr Johnsen refers, I would like briefly to refer to the setting of the St.meld No. 38 for 1995-96, on gas power plants in Norway, where, inter alia: is: ‘The majority are found to be built gas power plants on Kolsnes and Kårstø if the management of the concession shows that the conditions for the concession have been met and can be included in a holistic environmental and energy policy.’ The concession treatment carried out under the Energy Act and the ongoing concession treatment under the Pollution Act are intended to ensure thorough treatment, as requested by the Stortinget in the case of gas power.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1934	I thank you for your answer. What is the main problem behind my question is this: The Storting has made a decision to build two gas power plants. These decisions were subject to, inter alia, the following conditions: gas power stations would be ready when Åsgard was ready in 2000. This is not possible. So SFT has got the role of granting emission permits, and the requirements are set so high that it's not possible for these people who want to build the power plants, to get this updated within the technology and the costs that we know today. My question goes back to the Minister: if the Minister thinks that a decision taken at this level can be elegantly converted into the SFT, because that is what is actually being done, because the requirements are being set so high that it is neither cost-effective nor yet technically feasible to implement it, since they do not know in which fields to place the gas. Does the Minister still believe that such decisions are to be taken in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1943	Let me remind you that when the majority at Stortinget advised that gas power stations should be built on Kollsnes and Kårstø, they made some assumptions, among other things. that it could be part of a comprehensive energy and environmental policy. So it was the Ministry of Oil and Energy under the regime of the previous government that, in addition to concessions under the Energy Act, permission had to be obtained from SFT under the pollution law in order to release greenhouse gases. It is Storting's decision and concession provisions given by the Ministry of Oil and Energy under the previous regime that are now being followed up by this government. I also want to remind you again that we have a complaint case for treatment, which ends up on my table not too long, and that therefore I will not go into a concrete assessment of the terms and conditions that SFT has set.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1953	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the State Council Odd Roger Enoxen: ‘‘Nothing would delight us more than that the families of children moved from the Groruddalen. They would like to live in Finnmark or other areas in the districts", says Deputy Director Kåre Movold to the Evening Post Evening, 17 March 1999, as a solution to deficiencies in Oslo schools. Are the statements of Mr Movold representative of the political leadership of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1962	I can assure you that no one in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs – either in the administration or in political management – believes that acute deficiencies can be solved in Oslo schools by encouraging families with children to move from Groruddalen. I can inform you that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is working well with the Municipality of Oslo to contribute to good living conditions and housing conditions for families with children in Oslo. Nevertheless, I cannot fail to point out that some of the problems that have arisen have a bearing on being typical press problems as a result of large movements to the Oslo area over a long period of time. [[Statsrådet Enoksen]] As a regional minister, I am also very concerned about influencing the strength of these relocation flows, and, if possible, also turning them around. At the same time, this will be an important contribution to facilitating the pressure in Oslo. I therefore look forward to good cooperation with the representative, Mr Nybakk, and everyone else who is concerned about these press problems, on the measures being promoted in the area of district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1975	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer which I interpret to you that what this Deputy Director has said to the evening number of the evening post is not representative of either political management or the Ministry of Local Affairs as such. I have to say, when there is a lack of teachers in the Grorud valley and a lag in investment in the Oslo school, it's not just frail to express itself as this subdirector has done, it's direct contempt for all the people who have actually chosen to live in the big city, and who think it's positive to live in a city community, that living in a city community is a way of life that gives a wealth of opportunities and variations. But these are people who also think that we who live here are entitled to the same public service as those who live elsewhere in the country. I will ask the Council of State to confirm that it is also his opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1980	As I said in my first answer: no one in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs believes that the problems in the Oslo area can be solved in the way that is outlined here. I join the representative Nybakk in saying that those who live in Oslo, those who choose to live in town, should of course have the same public services as those who live elsewhere in the country. Therefore, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is committed to working closely with Oslo to facilitate the best possible growth conditions. I join the representative Nybakk in saying about the quality of living in town and that many people want to have this as their residence, and it is to be taken care of by the department. But I also want to repeat that some of the problems we see are, of course, caused by the fact that you have had a heavy pressure over time. There has been a strong movement and a pressing problem that has increased and which is also important to help to combat. I look forward, as I said in my first reply, to constructive and close cooperation in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1990	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Houses in small buildings and in residential blocks up to two floors shall have chimneys enabling the installation of fireplaces for use in the event of the loss of the main energy supply, unless the building is heated by two adequate and independent energy sources or is connected to district heating systems. What kind of emergency reasons have been created for those people who live in houses with more than two floors?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e1999	Larger dwelling houses will normally be located in densely built streets or cities. It must be possible to assume that conditions are better suited to find alternative solutions in the event of a loss of the main energy supply. In addition, larger housings have more frequent waterborne heat, with boilers which can in many cases be fired with both electricity and oil/solid fuels, possibly district heating, and which can be easily arranged to ensure an emergency situation. I can also mention that it has been shown that there are problems with getting enough traction in connection with refurbishment in housing blocks. This has also been reinforced as mechanical extraction has become common. Therefore, the requirement for chimneys in multi-storey dwellings is not maintained. Experience suggests that today’s legislation provides adequate preparedness for those living in houses with more than two floors. However, as there are opportunities for new forms of energy use, it may be appropriate to consider alternative solutions also in terms of preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2008	I thank the Council of State for the answer, although it is really just pointing to opportunities that are not obligatory so far. So far, the practice has been that houses in scattered struts should have an extra safe way of heating in addition to the supply of electricity. Therefore, the requirement for chimneys is only addressed to dwellings in small houses and housing blocks up to two floors. This question has been raised several times in the past with the Ministry of Industry. But the Department has concluded that, among other things: in a letter to the company Schädler dated 2 October 1998, that this type of requirement for larger houses, which is normally located in densely populated areas, is not so insensitive because, as the department says, in the event of energy failure, you can seek shelter from others. It is also said that in the event of a major failure of energy supplies, the more general preparedness arrangements will be applied. Does the Council of State consider this to be a patent system, and what does the Department consider to be a more general emergency plan?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2019	The Ministry emphasises that the experience gained with today’s legislation has proved to be satisfactory for those living in dwellings with more than two floors. This is one of the reasons why it has been decided not to continue the requirement for chimneys in buildings with more than two floors. I would also like to point out that it has proved to be problems, as I also said in my answer, to make this technically work in housing blocks, i.e. problems in getting enough chimneys in housing blocks. It is a real problem that has also contributed to the ministry’s assessment of the country. Until other and new forms of energy use exist and other measures can be implemented, the Ministry does not see the need to change the legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2026	So we're going back to 31-35.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2032	‘The size has decided on several occasions to invest in the use of natural gas in the transport sector and the importance of State contribution and involvement in the construction of infrastructure to realise the ‘natural gas road’ and the facilitation of gas-fuelled ferries has been accepted by the Storting. In the 1999 budget of the Ministry of Transport, 40.4 million were allocated. grants to ‘Contributions to rational and environmentally friendly transport’. How far has the decision of the Storting regarding the use of gas in the transport sector been taken?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2039	The primary role of the authorities in the context of the use of natural gas in the transport sector is to provide a satisfactory framework. This is particularly the case through the design of the charging system, such as: the environmental characteristics of the respective fuels are taken into account. Since the use of natural gas is free of charge, while the use of conventional fuels involves high charges, the charging system facilitates the use of natural gas in Norway. However, the Ministry of Transport is also involved in individual projects concerning the use of natural gas in the transport sector. Projects are mainly linked to areas that are natural for environmental and economic reasons — gas buses in major cities and gas ferries near landing sites. All projects are geographically related to the ‘Natural Gas Road’. Of the funds in Chapter 1301, Item 70 of the Ministry of Transport's budget, Contributions to rational and environmentally friendly transport, amount to 10 million. kr to the alternative fuel test scheme, etc. The Ministry of Transport has for several years, among other things: fully financed the natural gas bus projects in Trondheim and Haugesund through the alternative fuel test scheme, etc. In this connection, it has, among other things: have been built natural gas filling stations in Trondheim and Haugesund. In Trondheim, the installation is used by 4 buses, while it is dimensioned by 40. The filling station for the gas bus project in Haugesund is used by 8 buses, 6 taxis and 54 other vehicles. The pilot scheme has also funded other projects involving the use of natural gas, such as: a project concerning locomotive gas operation. Furthermore, 10.5 million has been granted. kr to the Bergen gas bus project over the 1997 big city funds. The development of gas-fuelled ferries has clarified that only LNG is suitable for storage of gas in ferries. The first gas-powered ferry is now under construction and shall be put into operation over the Moldefjord in the connection of Søllnes-Åfarnes. The ferry will be supplied with gas from the Tent Goods. As stated in the 1999 State Budget, the implementation of gas testing in the Bokenaförd link involves investment in compressed natural gas conversion plants, CNG, into liquid form, LNG. Both economic and market conditions need to be clarified. The Ministry aims to provide the Stortinget with more detailed information during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2048	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The two ferries adopted in the Bokenafjord connection have now been requested by the Stortinget, at the latest in the budget setting of the year. And it's made clear that these two ferries must have land-based investments in the conversion of natural gas, so that the gas can be used in the ferry connection. It should be clear that a desire for these ferries – it has been agreed here, it has been adopted in the county – but then the road manager in Rogaland goes out in the paper on 11 March this year and says that they will not have gas-powered ferries in the Bokenafjörd link because of the high costs of land-based infrastructure. Private business and local authorities have now stepped in to help put this land-based infrastructure into place. One knew in advance, when one decided to have LNG ferries in the Boknafjord connection, that land-based infrastructure would lead to costs, so my question to the minister is: Is the government behind the road manager's rejection of gas-powered ferries in the Boknafjord connection, or can we wait for the government to launch these ferry projects in a relatively short time?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2059	As the representative Inger Stolt-Nielsen well knows, these matters have been covered with great interest and great commitment in recent years. There is nothing to suggest that the Government has a different attitude today towards these projects, neither on the ferry side nor on the bus side, than it has had in the past. We want, as I mentioned in my first answer, to give the Storting a more briefing during the spring. And in such an answer from the Council of State it is that he does not go into the statement made by the head of the road in this round, but has to come back to it in the orientation given to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2067	I allow myself to ask a question to the new Minister for Transport: ‘The exit that is used in the Skudenes connection, which is a national road link, has, in several respects, been drawn out recently and replaced with poorer equipment, rarer departures and/or speedboats as alternatives. This has great consequences for passengers and businesses. Does the Council of State consider this to be an agreement with decisions and guidelines, and what initiative may he take to correct this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2076	Because of the periodic maintenance of one of the two ferries in the Mortavika-Arsvågen tribal road network and machine damage to the supplemental ferry, there are currently too few road ferries in Rogaland. The head of the road has redispatched Skudene's journey to the tribal road link until one of the ferries is in operation again, probably this week. As a preliminary solution five months this year, MF «Tau» will then be redispatched to this link. The main road connection is shorter than the connection to Skudeneshavn, and the traffickers crossing the Bokenafjord will benefit most from the ferry in this connection. Rogaland Traffic Company AS gets to deliver three new ferries this year. With these ferries the county will have a better supply in the ferry business. Holidays associated with Wittsøy and Skudeneshavn are old and mature for replacement. As announced by the National Council of Dørum in Question Time on January 27th, it is time to turn the national ferry service into a three-way connection. It will then be relevant to operate the connection with a newly built ferry with up to 67 parking spaces. The Ministry has subsequently received its decision from the county council, which attaches great importance to the continuation of current supply in the Skudenes connection. The permissions of the road authority set a limit to how well this task can be solved. I hope, therefore, that the representative Starrfelt understands that I, as the Council of State, cannot impose on the road service tasks without showing cost coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2087	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, which was a lot of facts about how it was. There was little assessment, and there was no promise of any initiative. In this way, I do not think the Council of State has answered my question. Does he mean that this is in line with the decisions and the guidelines that apply? Which initiative would he like to take? I want to give him another chance. First of all, I would say that there has been more than one exception. There have been quite a number of times this ferry has been out of service. On the other hand, a single message indicates that it is connected, and on the other hand, one refers to a speedboat. One might wonder why Skudene's relationship was the balancing item, if that is what the Council of State says, that the county council attaches great importance to furtherance. The Directorate of Road may redispatch ferries across the county boundaries. Has the Council of State considered this? What does he want to meet with the karma builders, who have now quite frequently met a fjord without a ferry, with an indication to run nine miles extra?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2096	For someone who's been dependent on ferries most of his life, it's easy to understand what the question is, and what you're aiming for. What I can promise here and now is that I will go especially through the ferry situation in Rogaland. I will then be able to answer the various questions raised in the previous Question Time more comprehensively, in this Question Time – and which I expect will come in a later Question Time. I want to see these projects in context and in relation to the new ferries being delivered. I will therefore await the recordings I get from the road manager and from the Road Directorate regarding the disposal of the ferries, and will see this in conjunction with the materials available, not just on a county basis, as they are asked about now. I would also like to ask a few questions about how disposal takes place across the county.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2106	First I have to say that I am sorry that I forgot to put on my jacket when I went to the pulpit. I get hope that you carry over with me. It's the rule that you have to wear a jacket on your armchair. I forgot about it on the move. I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: «Since its establishment, the fast route has been regarded as Rv 1 and the main means of transport on the coast of people and goods. Fast-track operators have received large State transfers for this communication to be open. The transport of fish has been one of the main elements, but the new fast routes are designed so that they do not take fresh fish in the north. This poses major problems for some fish producers. What can the Council of State do to improve this relationship?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2117	Fast route companies state that the freight capacity on the fast route is currently leased out to Nor-Cargo AS, which is also responsible for marketing and sales. Goods transported by high-speed ferries are highly assorted and may sometimes be difficult to combine due to different requirements for the driving temperature of food products. Therefore, problems have arisen in combining ice-cream fishery products in open boxes with different food products. This is particularly relevant on northbound voyages, as freight capacity has been widely used for food products for wholesalers and retail chains. In order to meet the transport needs of the relatively small quantities of fresh ice-cream fishery products shipped on high-speed vessels in the north, carriers will recommend changing the packaging equivalent to that used for air consignments of fresh ice products, as well as covering the pallets with plastic blankets. The fast-moving companies state that such closure of the packaging prevents run-off and minimises the plague of odour. If these packaging requirements are met, the problems of the movement of fresh fishery products on the northbound voyages should be solved. Fast-track operators indicate that, through Nor-Cargo AS, they will ensure that information equivalent to that provided above is provided to agents in each port and to users. In general, I would like to remind you that, over many years, domestic freight transport has been based on competition between different actors at land and sea. This also applies to the carriage of goods by high-speed rail. The agreement concluded between the State and the high-speed bus companies with fixed state transfers up to 2001 has, in addition to ensuring the daily annual sailing of the Bergen-Kirkenes during the period of the agreement, primarily aimed at enabling companies to operate the fast route without any subsidies after 2001. The conversion itself is the company's own responsibility. It is difficult to see that the agreement provides a basis for action in relation to the management of the fishing transport operation in question. I have noticed, however, that companies believe that the problem can be solved by better packaging, and that companies will inform agents in individual ports and users about this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2130	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I am not satisfied with it. It is strange that a Minister for Transport cannot intervene and oblige companies to change the procedures for the transport of these goods – there are goods with marginal profit possibilities. This applies in particular to liver and eggs to be transported northwards for further production, but it may also apply to fresh salmon, salmon fillets and other fish products. Switching to high-speed air packaging will be an unreal situation for the coastal population and fish producers. It was necessary to recommend to the fast-track operators at least to place a container on the deck in which they can place these fresh goods. It's a big economic problem for those involved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2139	I fully agree with the representative Bastesen that this is a problem for those involved, but it is also a challenge for the fast-track companies. The challenge is precisely this with the combined use of cold rooms, of areas where odour and run-off during periods have been a problem, also because there have been no fixed shipments that can be reserved and handled as solid goods over time. The one with the container, which is proposed, may be one of the solutions to this problem. I believe, as Minister of Transport, that the solution lies on the packaging side, it lies both on the smooth transport by the fast-track companies and on alerting them about the shipment from the freight forwarders. The ability to impose something on companies without paying for it is limited. That's what I've been trying to underline.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2151	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: «Inside. S. No 128 on the country’s involvement in regional aviation, the majority of the Committee on Transport agrees that the regional grid is subject to a public service obligation in order to ensure fair prices for users and businesses. [[1994-95]] In spring, the regional grid will be re-offered. How will the State Council ensure that the outcome of the tender results in reasonable prices for users and business?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2160	Public service obligations and tenders will also be published for regional air routes for the period from 1 April 2000 where the State considers it necessary to ensure a satisfactory flight offer. The obligations shall ensure a satisfactory level of, inter alia: seating capacity, number of departures and tariffs, and tenders are conducted where no air carrier undertakes to meet the requirements on a commercial basis. For the short-range network as a whole, the State contribution to the tendering procedure means that the tariffs can be maintained at around 25 pst. lower than would otherwise be possible, based on current contracts and grids. Tariff level and system on the tendering routes are expressed in terms of maximum tariff and discount system requirements for all routes subject to public service obligations. The companies can freely adjust the tariffs below the maximum level. Participation will also be required in the systems of throughput prices in force at all times. The arrangements provide for a discount when changing to other routes. In addition to the tariff level, seat capacity will also be important for access to discounted seats and thus for the average public tariff level. In addition to generally high requirements for seating capacity, the upcoming invitation to tender for regional air routes will also require adjustment of the en route seating capacity during the tendering period if capacity utilisation becomes high. This will help to make seat provision more adapted to traffic volume fluctuations and facilitate access to seats in line with the actual public demand for different ticket types.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2174	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Governments are, in addition to being Minister of Transport, a major user of the regional grid. He knows well, both in terms of capacity and price. He is also well aware of the fact that users who have to combine short-distance networks and main road networks have the highest transport costs in this country. In addition, in the part of the country we're from, it's necessary to use planes internally in the counties. A return price for Vardø-Oslo costs SEK 5 840 – full price – and from the seat of the Council of State, Stokmarknes, it costs NOK 5 070. Does the Council of State consider that to be reasonable? If he does not think so, will he go in to reduce prices in the tender, so that you may get a higher public purchase by achieving what can be considered "reasonable" prices, and that it is our job to pay?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2183	I am not able to assess what is the right price level in the context of tickets, either here today or in the near future. In addition, that would be incorrect in relation to the bidding round we are going to go through. What I have tried to underline is that in connection with the bidding rounds that we are now going to go, it is important to get – and that will be a requirement – a discount when switching to other routes. It will also be important to look at seating capacity in addition to the fare level to see whether access to discounted tickets can increase both capacity and the ability to travel reasonably. In other words, the composition of the flight capacity and the price level of the aeroplane seats need not only to be assessed in relation to the highest business class, but also to be assessed in relation to the level of discount that can be achieved through sufficient seating capacity for discounted tickets.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2193	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: «I St.meld. No 15 [[1994-95]] How is this objective pursued?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2202	The answer seems to be reasonably short in this round from the Council of State. The final technical/operational upgrade priorities, including the issue of runway lengths for individual airports, are based on thorough air operations analyses conducted by the Swedish Aviation Agency in line with the Norwegian Aviation Plan 1998-2007. These analyses will serve as a basis for the simplified airport plans developed by the Swedish Aviation Agency for the regional airports for runway extension. For the airports of Brønnøysund and Florø, it was decided in 1998 to extend the runway to 1200 metres. For the other airports, the Swedish Aviation Agency will complete its final recommendations and priorities based on the analytical work in the coming months. I propose to inform the Storting about this in connection with the submission of the State budget for the year 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2213	I just want to give good advice to the Minister of Transport. Based on my long experience as a transport politician, I have summarized that the Swedish Aviation Agency has a tendency to work a lot on its own and find its own solutions, which may not be exactly the ones that Stortinget has proposed. With regard to the technical/operational standard, which has been dealt with by the Storting, it is very important that we make the changes that are to be made, and not by the Aviation Agency, because it is very strong that the Aviation Agency has already decided and is thinking of a different solution for a technical/operational standard than the government and largeing did when we dealt with the notification. I hope they haven't come so far in their processes that it's too late for us to be able to have a critical relationship with the plans that are apparently in the Aviation Administration, which they haven't informed about, but which have begun to become known country and beach around before it comes to us.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2220	Let me briefly say that good advice is received with thanks. They will be followed further up. The items mentioned by Mr Myrvoll will be examined in more detail. And here, as usual, it's the Storing that finally determines where to stand – to say it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2225	So we go to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2231	This question, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2234	I registered that it was presidential change. Then I found out that it was best to change the jacket as well. I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries, who is answered by the Minister for Transport: ‘We have been aware, through a number of newspaper headlines, that there has been a large-scale fishing of small cod in the Barents Sea and on the Norwegian coast recently, both by Norwegian and foreign vessels. Size measurements carried out by the Coast Guard are not in line with landing statistics, which indicate large-scale dumping of small fish. This is illegal and, at the same time, it provides researchers with poor grounds for estimating natural mortality and calculating cod stocks. What will the Council of State do to bring the situation under control?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2245	The President would just like to point out that the representative's initial remark was wise, also in action.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2248	The representative of Bastisen has asked a very central question. Both the Ministry of Fisheries and the surrounding departments are committed to assessing the situation and implementing the necessary measures. The Norwegian-Arctic cod population has been reduced in recent years and the total quota has been reduced from 850 000 tonnes in 1997 to 480 000 tonnes in 1999, excluding coastal cod. In recent years the composition of the population has changed. There has been a particularly strong decrease in the number of older fish, thus increasing the incidence of juvenile fish. As a result, many small fish dominate the catches. The coastguard has been asked to intensify the control of the size composition of catches. The coastguard has also been asked to extend the inspections on time on each ship, in order to obtain an overview of several halls in the same inspection. The Directorate-General for Fisheries, the Sales Laws and the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea shall cooperate in order to establish the consistency of fishing activities with landings. The Fisheries Directorate will also continue cooperation with Russia on the opening and closing of fields and the exchange of inspectors. The Fisheries Directorate has put in place a system of inspectors on board fishing vessels and this system will be extended gradually. The Institute for the Exploration of the Sea and the Directorate for Fisheries will draw up reports on: Winter TAC of the Institute for the Exploration of the Barents Sea in the configuration of catches When these reports are available, a detailed assessment of the additional measures to be taken, if any.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2270	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is a very worrying situation, and among the coastal population, especially the coastal fleet, there is great concern that they may experience a new 1989 collapse and with people who will have to land, they will not go to sea, with bankruptcies, uprooted families and all that this entails. We know that there has been a lot of overfishing and uncontrolled fishing in the Smuthole, there, among other things. Iceland has been a driver — and a number of other nations. It is clear that the bill for this overfishing must not apply to coastal fishermen, who operate in an ecologically sound manner, so I assume that the department takes note. The bill must be placed where it belongs. The other thing that the fisheries manager mentioned was that the collapse of the cod population is also due to the self-anxious stones that Greenpeace is responsible for. Does the Council share the view of the Director of Fisheries?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2279	Since it's just the president who can comment on this with the jackets, including the harnesses, I'm not going to do that. From my past in the Maritime and Fisheries Committee, I have a clear view of both overfishing and this with whom the bill is sent when overfishing has taken place. We must not – there I agree with the representative Bastesen – experience again in 1989, and the years that followed. It will therefore be closely followed in the development further from the department, from the directorate's side, as described in the comprehensive answer I gave a moment ago. I would like to take back to the Ministry of Fisheries the requests made by the representative of Bastesen. So I think, for my part, that today I am going to refrain from going into a debate on sales and fishing take-offs, but come back to it in a later natural context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2288	As a result, the ordinary Questionnaire is liquidated.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-03-24.ana.ud695e2297	There is no record.
