ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e27	It summons the alternate for Oslo, Berit Kväven, has teke seat. The representative of Ågot Valle will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e35	On behalf of Kristin Halvorsen and myself, I propose a national action plan for the protection of children.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e40	The proposal will be dealt with in the manner set out in the Regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e62	On Monday the Storting received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Jon LilletunState Council Marit ArnstadState Council Laila Davaøy The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral Question Time. Representatives who, in addition to the pre-announcers, would like to ask their main questions will be asked to stand up. - Thank you. Then we start with the first main questions, from the representative Sylvia Brustad.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e81	I have a question for the Minister of Labour and Administration. The housing problem for many young people is increasing as housing prices rise, especially in our large cities. Having a home should be a human right for everyone, but today there are over 7,000 people in our country who have no place to live. It's a fact that the state owns quite a lot of housing stock. A lot of this housing stock is actually empty, and a lot of it should have been converted into dwellings, among other things. for young people and disadvantaged people. My question is: will the Council of State take an initiative to get a proper review of the housing stock owned by the State to see if there is any of them that can quickly and quickly be converted into homes for young and disadvantaged people?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e90	It's an important question that's raised here. We are also aware that there have been major problems in the housing market, perhaps especially in the case of young people in the Oslo area. I want to mention one matter that has been discussed a part related to this. It's Hausmannsgate, where today we actually have some occupyings. In this particular case, Statsbyggen is in the process of looking at whether this dwelling can still be suitable for housing in the light of young people. When it comes to the general question, I am not unwilling to see whether the government can have housing suitable for young people's homes, but that does not mean that the government will rent out dwellings. I guess that's not the question in itself, but whether we can put housing at the disposal. What we've also said in the past is that it could be thought that there are some houses that are regulated for commercial purposes, which could be favourably reregulated. It is also the case that it is the individual municipality that has the primary responsibility for housing and for regulation. Not many weeks ago, I had a short conversation with the City Council in Oslo, where we jointly discussed whether we should perhaps sit down with the Minister of Municipal Affairs as well to look at these issues in terms of housing, especially with regard to young people. So the answer is yes, I can be willing to look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e101	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased that the Council of State is willing to review the state's housing stock, because it is clear that although the municipalities have a primary responsibility for this, the state also has a clear responsibility. Let me follow up with a concrete project. It is a well-known case that in a few days' time the bidding round for the old rickshaw hospital, which will be the new Pilestredet Park in Oslo, will be held. I don't think I'm very wrong if I estimate that the housing prices there will be very high, and that there won't be very many homes that will be available to ordinary people. Could it not be an idea that one of the plots in the old rickshospital area is put at the disposal of youth rentals, so that one prevents this area from becoming the Holmenkol lock on flat land?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e108	I cannot accept that and answer yes or no, but I take the representative's view of that question with me. In any case, I would like to make it clear that I am not interested in the state or state building itself starting to rent out dwellings. If this is to be done, then it must be the municipality that engages in social housing. But I'm taking with me – let's say – the proposal, because I can't answer this directly right now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e115	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e118	I would like to ask a question to the Minister of the Church, Education and Research: The quality of the school is something we need to put a lot of emphasis on for years to come. We've seen in recent times a high percentage of strokes and very poor results from higher education. For a long time, the right has been concerned about the level of continuing training, especially in the general field, which is to a large extent to be the starting point. Now, in its view, the Right receives partial support from the Leader of the Teachers' Union, which, until VG 12 November, says: ‘Student-motivated students need a better offer. General field of study does not properly fulfil its preparatory role today... it is worrying that the professional requirements have been weakened.» I thought these were interesting thoughts, and I would like to ask how the Council of State views this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e129	I believe that the representative Løvik and I share the view that we have to keep winning on quality. At the same time, we have a situation where almost all youth education is undergoing further training, and new challenges, but also providing new opportunities for further education. When it comes to reform 94 and its evaluation and follow-up, it has just been through a large research-based evaluation. It has been dealt with in the Storting, and a number of measures have been proposed and will be implemented. In that process, there was no recording cork from the Teachers' Association or others in the hearing about a layering in the general field, as it might seem behind the representative Løvik's question. On the other hand, I agree that we need to get an additional adapted training and a differentiation within today's system that gives more challenges to those who are doing the best and who are good. I think there's a lot to go on. Compared to Reform 94, the structure is in place, but we have to do even more when it comes to differentiation, when it relates to adaptation and when it relates to the content of the reform. I think the longer we get into putting the student's own responsibility for learning in focus, the more it's going to be going to be. So I think we're on the right track. I also register with interest that the leader of the Norwegian Student Organisation does not fully support the ideas of Anders Folkestad as they appeared in the VG resolution. But now I don't ignore the fact that Anders Folkestad has a broader view than what was in the VG.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e139	One of the problems is that we've now got a large part of the coal in general, and that there's a great spread of interest and ability. And then there's a question about the level in some areas has been so low that some are not able to start a study professionally. In an answer to a question from me in June 1998, the Council of State itself said that one of the reasons for the high percentage of strokes, especially in mathematics from universities and colleges, is that the professional basis of continuing training is generally weak. This I thought we had to take the consequences of. It doesn't have to be superclasses, but there can be classes that are divided according to the subject and the individual student's interest. Does the Council of State answer here mean that the Council of State will not proceed with this? Recorded on these issues are not missing when it comes to Reform 94 either.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e144	To a very great extent, the Council of State will continue. We're in the process of doing that, and it's a confirmation that from the beginning of the 1970s until today, the real subject has not had enough attention in the school, and the math that the representative Løvik referred to here is one of the subjects. A reform 97 has given a much better curriculum. Right these days, we're going through the curriculum to correct reform 94 so that it's better suited to reform 97 and to the university's further education. Furthermore, we are embarking on a large project at national level that is going to go through custom training, how we can give adequate challenges to those who are good, while also working to bring with us customised education those who are tired. I believe that we are in very good hands to take care of what the representative Løvik here takes up, and we will certainly be able to do so again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e151	There will be follow-up questions – Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e154	Yes, of course, we should focus on the quality of teaching. From the Workers' Party's side, we would like to have individually organized education both for so-called weak elephants and for so-called strong elephants in common classrooms and not in the so-called superclasses that are now launched. And there's going to be a focus on both project and proximity to community and work. Can I get a confirmation from the Council of State that it is also the Government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e159	As I tried to say in the previous two answers, I'm going to repeat it now, that we want common classes, and we want to customize education where we need to be better than today to give the good challenges. I think it's important, but it's also between 10 and 15 pst. And it's just as important to give them the challenges they need to meet. As the representative Sigvald Uppøen Hansen asked the question, I believe that we are fully on the line in relation to what it is necessary to bet on. It should be good quality for the one who wears the most, but it should also be very good quality for those who can really stretch, and it is appropriate training at its best as this council sees it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e164	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e167	I believe that the Council of State agrees with the questioner that the overall consideration must be to make the best possible use of human resources. My experience after a long life at a Norwegian university is that the competent, theoretically good students have never learned to work when they start studying as 19-year-olds. The important thing is to learn how to use yourself at a much earlier time than that. So I repeat the question from Løvik: will the Council of State actually do something to stimulate greater freedom, including organisational freedom, in higher education, which means that all students will have to make the same effort?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e174	I think I'm going to make a reservation for the last time, that they're going to make the same effort. I think that the representative's pay and I'm some people that we don't get that kind of math and mathematical similarity, and that's not what we're trying to do either, but we're all going to have to do as much effort as possible. I believe that a teaching based on student participation, a teaching based on project, a teaching that gives the teacher a much greater responsibility for guidance, as it is in the intention of the reform, but with which there is still a long way to go before we are in the goal, will give the result that the representative is looking for. It's obvious that there's a part that's got a flood through it. I was late a few days ago at the presentation of a project where some elephants said it. Then it must be legitimate to require more of them in such project work, but at the same time we must also take those who are actually tired.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e181	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e184	I am pleased that the Council of State so clearly rejects the Right's wish for curricula and level differentiation. It's a knowledge view that I fully share. There are obvious indications that the quality of a slightly extended concept is not as it should be. There are enough reasons for this — that there is no desire to learn, that creativity is not present, that school fatigue, especially in high school, but perhaps also in high school, has been given the opportunity to grow. Then the question is, how do we ensure that each student is given the opportunity to develop his or her abilities and creativity when the school may appear to be too large as the square and with too little resources to meet each student? The main problem – I think – for many students, many schools and many teachers is that you don't have the resources to achieve the fine goals of the curriculum because the resource situation in school is so demanding. What has to be the challenge for the minister is: how are we going to make sure that we get resources into school in order to achieve the goals Lilletun now had, and that are in the curriculum?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e191	I appreciate the great commitment that both the representative Djupedal and SV have to put the school on the agenda. Now, the first question from the representative, Løvik, was continuing school, but the answer here, I think I'm going to give in relation to the youth ball, because it's quite right that there's kind of the glamour in the eye disappear, and there's a demand for what's in the curriculum, but one has not managed to develop in the youth ball. Next Tuesday, we will have a large national conference on youth, which is largely based on the hearings that we organised with the Barneombode this year. What we do in the state budget, although many people think it's too small, is that we double the efforts on the post-secondary education page, we bet on the teacher and the teacher's competence. What is needed now to follow up the reforms is that we give teachers the opportunity to be sure that we can achieve the good goals that we have seen. I agree with the representative, Djupedal, that we have a way again, but we have started going on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e199	That's good. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e204	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. In its proposal for a State budget, the government has proposed a sharp increase in electricity taxes, and unfortunately now it seems that they will be given a majority by means of the Workers' Party. The government further says that the announced increase should be compensated by increased minimum deductions. This may initially sound very reliable, but what about those who have the least of them, namely the minimum pensioners and others who don't pay taxes. They will not benefit from an increased minimum deduction. There are just a lot of these that because of the weak economy live in attractive houses and apartments that require a lot of electricity for heating. Doesn't the Council of State see the obvious injustice contained in the proposal, and what will the Council of State do to correct this for some of the weakest in society?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e211	It is true that the Government has proposed a moderate increase in the electricity charge, and it is also true that one has tried to compensate as far as possible for the weakest by increasing the minimum deduction and, therefore, by far on the road, offsets the increase in the electricity charge for those with the lowest revenues. It is true that increased minimum deductions do not apply to minimum pensioners, and I see that this group may come out a bit unfortunate in relation to the electricity charge increase. It is also a theme that one will have to take on board in relation to future charging policies in this area and also in relation to the electricity price in general. Now I want to remind the representative, Mr. Waksdal, that the electricity price in Norway is very low compared to the countries we can compare with, and that the increase that the electricity charge now represents is quite modest. An opportunity to compensate for the electricity demand if, for example: living in a very attractive house, is that you take advantage of the opportunities you have to get free an on-site advice to just prevent the house in the future from becoming as attractive as it is. There's a better chance of that now than it's ever been before.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e218	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The notified increase in the electricity charge is likely to have little impact on consumption other than a purely fiscal charge for the public sector, whereas the new base charge on mineral oil, which is also introduced at the same time, will lead to a distortion from oil to electric heating. This is not least due to the fact that almost half of Norwegian electricity consumption is exempt from charge. As a result, there will be a deterioration in the national supply situation and an increase in imports of coal power. Is this not a contradiction with the Government's objective in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e225	First of all, I must say that I do not entirely share Mr. Waksdal's view that electric charging does not have any effect. I think it has an effect in terms of increasing awareness of its own energy consumption and of the possibility of actually using some of the mechanisms that have gradually been set up for energy savings. In that case, people can not only save on the electricity charge increase, but they can actually get reduced costs compared to the original budget. If you increase the charge on electric current, you also have to increase the charges on the use of oil at the same time to prevent a switch from electricity to oil. In this case, there will be a transition that will be unfortunate from the pollution point of view. I agree that we need to look at the further consequences of other energy sources. But I think we have to do that in other ways than say that there should be a reason in itself not to increase the electricity charge in a situation where you have a Norwegian power market with very low power prices.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e230	There will be follow-up questions – Per-Cristian Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e233	I allow myself to return to the questioner's starting point about the social consequences of an increase in the electricity charge when you do not compensate it for pensioners. I record that the Council of State now admits that there is no compensation for pensioners as opposed to for employees. So I want to ask the Council of State: why do you go the other way, so in fact, the tax conditions for pensioners get worse by not adjusting prices or wages for age? This means, however, that, unlike employed people, pensioners suffer a deterioration in the economic situation. I have recorded that the Government's own forecast actually points out that the greatest difference in society is between those who live on earnings and those who don't. Now we're talking about a group that essentially doesn't have employee income. So I wonder how what is now being done to pensioners, simply harmonizing with the government's own thinking?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e242	I actually think I'm going to stick to my own field, that is, the issue of tax increases related to energy policy. There it is, as I also said in my original answer, that there is no direct compensation for minimum pensioners in the sense that the minimum deduction that is significantly increased and that compensates for low pay groups does not affect minimum pensioners. I don't see any reason to hide it – that's a fact. However, in the further charging policy in this area – and the Government is very much concerned about how to plan the charges further here – and as part of the discussion on the energy message, one must also take this into account and look at the conditions of pensioners associated with the tax changes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e249	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e252	I want to ask the Council of Churches a question. The church meeting has decided against a large minority to debate the authority of the church meeting, with more power for the church meeting at the expense of the bishops. I would like to ask whether the Council of Churches is aware of this document, which appears to be contrary to the Church Act and goes beyond what the Stortinget has adopted, and in my opinion also beyond the Church's own arrangements, for here one authority, namely the Church Meeting, must have a Christian added value in relation to others, with the result that the Norwegian Church will not allow minority views. Then it worked for an attitude that I would at least think Martin Luther would not have supported in his time in his rebellion against the parish church. But what is the church council's opinion, if he has anyone at all?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e261	I think I should be careful about what Church Father Martin Luther would mean about this question. The leader of the church committee is probably somewhat more competent than the church councils. On the other hand, I would like to say something about the matter itself. It has been quite since the church meeting was to be created, a certain tension between the bishops ’ authority and the authority of the church meeting. It's interesting to notice that the fronts have changed a little bit. In the beginning, perhaps the traditionally more conservative part of the Church was worried that the Church meeting would be a little liberally composed, and so they tired themselves of the bishops and would have the most possible authority there. Something has changed in recent years. They may now find that there is more security in the Church Meeting, while the other side of the Church has in a way done the opposite. None of the pieces are very principled. When it comes to that document, I know it. But I mean, of course, that the church meeting must have the opportunity to discuss all the issues that concern the church. However, if the service arrangements adopted by the law of the bishops are to be amended, it must of course be dealt with both in government and in magnificence if this is to be necessary. I'm waiting for the Church to be treated. What they now have is some premise for a committee to work on. So I'm waiting for what the Church itself is going to say about the matter before I possibly think about how the Government will continue to work on it. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e271	I record that, of course, the Council of Churches is familiar with this document and for the nth time also has no meaning in church policy issues – i.e.. in any case, does not defend the part that would fall on the diversity and the broad part of the people's church. And the Council of State has no meaning either in terms of relations around Helge Hognestad, which has gone like a throwing ball from one to the other, and now also sent from the Council of State to a learning subject. Once again, this is about the width and the inclusion. I take note that the Council of Churches does not support that part or choose not to have any opinion on it, with the consequence that he actually supports the more fundamentalist groupings within the Church.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e280	First of all, I would strongly distance myself from the expression 'the more fundamentalist', because I don't think it's coverage to use such an expression about what's the main currents in the Church, cork on one side or the other. When it comes to this matter that is being dealt with, I think it would be totally wrong for a Council of Churches to take the lead in the debate that is going to take place in the church organs. But, of course, at the same time, the Council of State takes responsibility for this change, and they must also be debated in the other legal bodies that exist. In the case of the bishops' authority, it is in a service arrangement that needs to be changed. So here I think one must have a sense of order. The difference here is that the representative Knudsen has something more to do with the front. I say that Churcha gets the debaters done by herself, and then I come back to Stortinget with what is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e289	There will be follow-up questions – No pay.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e292	Allow me to make a modest contribution to Luther's research. I remember from my study time a heated discussion at a student meeting at the Theological Faculty where one formulated himself this way: If Martin Luther had lived today, he would have turned to his grave. [[Laughter]] It worries me that the Council of State is making itself so invisible in terms of the responsibilities of church affairs, and especially in the specific case of Grete Knudsen mentioned in his follow-up question. One year has passed since Helge Hognestad applied for access to become a priest again in the Norwegian Church. Four months have passed since the Council of State had the opinions of all the bishops on its table, and after four months he discovers that he will send the matter to the subject of learning, which consists of the same bishops who have already spoken in the matter. Is it necessary to be so invisible, sir? State Council?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e302	I have said publicly – and I would like to repeat it from the Spokesman's Chair – that the trial period is too long in this matter. I could have shown you earlier processing times that have been separated longer – but this is too long! Since this matter was largely original, the reason why a starting learning subject should have been assessed by me a long time ago. But I thought maybe the bishops could give you some unique advice. It has not happened, and after going through the cases thoroughly, I have chosen to ask the Learning Subject to go through the case, and I have asked that it will not take too long. There is a good deal other than the bishops who sit in the denominator, but as the representative, as he is in the subject of learning, knows, it is not that the bishops make up a purely plurality in the subject of learning.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e309	Anneliese Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e312	I want to follow up on what is now about to happen at the Church Meeting. There it is now added to crush the right to have different opinions and minority views in the Church. In its answer, the Council of Churches does not express a popular consciousness, and I want to ask the reason for that. Is it true that he believes that one can adopt the right religious and Christian attitude by a simple majority?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e319	I think that one overinterprets the document that is leading, if one thinks there should be no possibility of having minority views and church debate. Of course, this is also in that document, but that's how to manage the add-on authority and some other authorities and premises for it, which in that case will be streamlined. This government stands for a broad popular position. In that position it is that we should first allow the Church to debate its situation itself, and then we will come back to this when it is done. That's what happens in Trondheim. The bodies elected by law by the Church debate their situation and authority, and then, of course, have to come to government and grow up with it at a later date. [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs.]] That is why I am responsible for the order in which I am responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e326	The President must ask the Council of State to take care of the speaking time. Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e331	My question goes to the Minister of Education. At present, there are a number of actions in Norwegian schools. It's not the typical actionists who are now on the barricades. These are common, reliable, good Norwegian teachers who now show their dissatisfaction, reluctance and arrogance about the situation they experience in school. These are clearly actions aimed at the resource situation, the lack of financial resources, the lack of educational material, and also at the fact that education was the central theme in the election campaign. There have been certain expectations that something will now happen. These actions are also aimed at the level of pay and the problem of recruiting teachers, so that there is a wide range of these actions now taking place. So my question to the Council of State is, what will he do, and what answer does he have to give to these actionists who are now on the track, so that they will get back to optimism and to give them courage?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e340	I have, like the representative Rikvam, registered that there are some actions, and I would also like to agree with the representative Rikvam that these are not typical actionists. At the same time, we must have a clean grip on this. The Minister of Labour and Administration and I have discussed how we should handle the actions, and together we will call the Norwegian Teachers' Team and the Teachers' Association to a meeting as quickly as possible to determine the background to the actions, their scope, and whether they are legal or illegal. NTB e.g. state that the actions are illegal. We don't have the position, and that's what we want to talk to the parties about. In the case of actions contrary to the current legal and administrative framework, the Ministry of Labour and Administration will take the necessary steps to put an end to the actions, including: by requiring the Norwegian Teachers' Team and the Teachers' Association to take part in the immediate completion of the actions. If the actions are to continue, the Ministry of Labour and Administration will have to consider voting in favour of the labour law organisations mentioned above. It is consistent with the normal management of such cases. But when that's said, I'm going to say that I understand that these are great expectations of the remarkable education received in the election campaign. What the government promised in the election campaign, the government held. In the agreement negotiated between the Labour Party and the Government Party here on the Stortinget, there are also monthly improvements in education. I think this is a basis for getting back an optimism in school. From this government there are also initiatives when it comes to recording the local level to a much greater extent than in many years – so I look seriously at the actions, but I have to deal with them as I have outlined here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e350	I am somewhat surprised that this answer went on the legality, and that it is important for the Council of State to find out. The important thing is to try to figure out what the cause is, and we know it. We know what's the reason for this, that this is an expression of frustration and an expression of adjective. The teachers – then we are not talking about the organisations, we are talking about the teachers in Norwegian schools – have seen no willingness to bet on education. There's the answer, it's that simple. I would probably wish the Council of State were more willing to go into the realities and not talk about the formality of the actions. If a person spends time and forces on it, I am quite convinced that these problems cannot be solved. There must be a willingness to go in and give some answers to the questions they are asking about this with resources and wages. Is the Council willing to give these signals, so that once again you can create peace and optimism in Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e359	As the representative of Mr Rikvam knows, it is in the budget that the policy is going to take place in the coming year. In addition, an additional warning is given via a shopping message about the overall policy. I'm taking the action seriously, and I want a dialogue with them that's acting. At the same time, the government with the two government councils I've been taught here, of course, must also take responsibility for the follow-up of the labour market. It has to be possible to have two thoughts in your head at once, a thought that says we need a dialogue, and one that says that we absolutely have to take seriously what's going on in school, and worry there. But at the same time, we have to follow the glints, in school, as in the rest of society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e368	There will be follow-up questions – Grete Knudsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e371	I agree with the Council of State that when there was such a big emphasis on education in the election campaign, expectations were also created, not least from some parties that focused enormously on the pay question, which one of course cannot get into a budgetary context. That's why it was also negatively received, even though you're now increasing the budget for education by almost $1 billion. However, an area with which the Council of State can do something, either in the budget or in connection with the work currently being done by the Stortinge, is to ensure that teachers are still to negotiate with the State as a counterparty. The question is whether the Council of State will retain it, so that at least it takes away the burden from the teacher organisations as part of their action.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e378	First of all, I would like to say that the Government will make a clarification of this in the course of the current year. To do this, we also have a selection of partners, along with the social partners, such as the social partners. shall consider how wage formation takes place and how negotiating responsibility is to be organised. I'm aware, like the representative Knudsen, that this is important for teachers and teachers-Noreg, and I'm set in the process that's now happening, to contribute to a solution that makes this clear.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e383	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e386	There is a significant problem when there are many in school who are obviously dissatisfied and disgruntled and who now choose to act. It's a problem that affects far more than the groups that are now acting. It's a problem for everyone who has kids in school, and everyone who's concerned that Norwegian school should be in front. When you have confrontations within a classroom and within a school, it is a significant problem that can not only be solved by dialogue, but you also have to have an offensive attitude about how to solve it. The government has submitted a recruitment message where very little substance has been said. That's a lot of nice words, but it doesn't have anything about economics for the school. State Council Lilletun is so right that he did not promise anything in the election campaign, but it is allowed to learn a bit along the way, and that means that you have to bet more in school. That is why I would like to ask: there is no money in the state budget now for a paycheck for the teachers, but will the Council of State Lilletun still give a little signal that the Council of State and the Government are not completely unwilling to look at the problem again?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e395	What was expected from several political parties was that there should be some pay considerations in the recruitment message. It would be to introduce a whole new practice in terms of wage formation in society, and it will not be the responsibility of this government. When it comes to the ordinary wage negotiations, we have said in this message that wages are an essential basis for recruitment, and we are of course on that. That's also what we want to do when we're negotiating for pay in the ordinary paycheck. But it would be totally crazy of me to stand here and say that we're going to do this and that in relation to one of the groups. This must happen in negotiations between the parties, but the Government will take note of the findings contained in the message.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e402	Petter Løvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e407	There may be reason to ask the Council of State if the actions we are currently seeing are the result of frustration over a recruitment message that does not simply analyse the situation, try to see contexts, or suggest how the crisis we are facing can be resolved. No attempt has been made to analyse whether pay may have any effect, and it must be able to do so in a great deal of detail. In addition, there may be grounds for asking whether there may be frustration at the signals given by the Government in the budget, or even worse signals given in the budgetary conciliation between the Labour Party and the Intermediate Party, which do not have an increase in the admissions to the school, as the representative Knudsen and the Council of State have previously presented it – it is quite an increase when it comes to schooling/recreational and continuing textbooks – but which reduces the focus on quality development and continuing education, which is one of the most important teachers asked for. Could there be the signals that the Government and their Support Party are now giving, which provide the basis for these actions?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e414	It will hardly surprise Stortinget that I am not in the analysis that the representative of Løvik had of what is in the recruitment message. This is the first time that a permit scheme has been launched, and we have for the first time seen a sharp increase in terms of continuing education, as both Right and Others have said before. There are a number of actions that are actually launched, but I can't get into it for a minute here. What happened, and for which the Right is also to be praised, was that they kind of raised the question of school in the election campaign. But at the same time, they made the impression that both through messages and the Stortinge can conduct wage negotiations. From among others The next leader in the Right was also given clear information about how much this paycheck should be on. The immodest way in which he behaved in relation to wage formation created expectations that in some way would lead to a breakdown of hope when the Government does not sign out. And I have to say, the government can't sign out that way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e422	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e425	My question goes to the Council of State, Marit Arnstad. The central government has had to endure harsh criticism of the lack of ambitions in the field of energy policy, and not to give Norwegian energy companies framework conditions that enable them to face ever tougher international competition. At an energy policy conference yesterday, organized by ENFO and KS, the parliamentary leader of the Senterparti Johan J. Jakobsen released two interesting political news. He first stated that the Government will go in for a partial privatisation of Statoil, and then that the Center Party will go in for a careful partial privatization of State Power. My question to the Council of State Marit Arnstad is whether she agrees with the parliamentary leader of the Central Party that State power should be sub-privatized.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e436	First of all, the representative Jamessen did not say that he was in favour of a partial privatisation of Statoil, he said that it cannot be excluded. And I fully agree with the representative Jakobsen in that. We are now considering arguments for and against a change in the ownership structure of Statoil. We do so in the context of the whole review of the State exposure in the petroleum sector. There is an assessment that must be both broad and thorough, and there is currently no basis for excluding anything — neither to retain the current ownership structure nor to change the ownership structure. As far as Statkraft is concerned, I also know in what context Jacobsen said this, and that was in connection with the international activities of the companies. There may be one argument for a changed ownership structure, but there are many other aspects of state companies, especially State power, which should have been assessed in the event. The government has not assessed those questions, for the Government has no plans whatsoever to sub-privatise State power.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e443	I notice that the Council of State is now trying to tone down Jacobsen's statements. I was present at that conference; there were also several other staging representatives and 400-500 other participants. And we heard what Jacobsen said. First, he stated that the Government will go in for a partial privatisation of Statoil. He pointed out here to leaks that had been sent out last week, and then Jakobsen stated that the centre party would go in for a careful partial privatization of State power. I welcome it, because I think it is absolutely necessary to ensure that Norway will also have strong Norwegian energy companies in the future. I also welcome such modern and forward-looking market thinking from the Centre Party. The centre party has not been the most privatizing party, and if it is that the centre party is now in favour of a careful partial privatization of State power, the council should have all the opportunities to also get with the Christian People's Party and the Left. So my question again is whether Arnstad agrees with Jakobsen that State power should be sub-privatized.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e450	I believe that the debate could be served by a nuance, which the representative Sanner obviously does not see fit. As I said, it is clear that the Government, and the Central Party, in the context of the debate on Statoil, are assessing the impact of maintaining today's ownership structure, but we are also considering the issue of partial privatisation. We do that because Statoil has asked for it, and because it is part of the whole review of the state involvement in the petroleum sector. But neither the Center Party nor the Government has concluded on that point. As far as Statkraft is concerned, I must say that if I wasn't at the conference, I know in what context Jacobsen said what he said. It was in the context of a question of international involvement. I can see that that's one argument for a partial privatisation of a state company. But there are also many arguments in this context that work in the opposite direction. If one were to seriously enter into such a debate, one had to have a full review of the arguments both for and against. That debate has not been addressed by the Government, because the Government has no plans to share State power.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e459	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e462	I will address my question to the Minister of Labour and Administration. Tens of thousands of part-time employees, mainly women, will receive the minimum pension when they become pensioners, even if they have paid up 2 pst. of their gross wages and salaries in addition to the national social security contributions. For example, a reindeer in a part-time job, an employee in a state or municipality, will only receive a minimum pension. If he had been employed in a private enterprise with a private occupational pension scheme, an additional pension would be paid, regardless of what is paid by the social security. What will the Council of State do to all these part-time employees who will receive a minimum pension after a long public service effort?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e471	The representative refers to an important issue especially for women who have worked in a part-time job, perhaps throughout their lives, and who have only the opportunity to earn the minimum pension. This is a very comprehensive question, and I cannot answer the representative on a stand-by basis what I can actually do about this issue. We have, as we know, arrangements with the AFP, i.e. a contractual pension for older workers. We also know that a number of questions about retirement are up to discussion in these days. The only thing I can say to the representative that I'm going to do is that of course I'm going to take this issue back. On the standing foot I can give no more exact answer. It is also possible today to earn pension credits without necessarily being at work. But that doesn't affect the question of actually ending up with a minimum pension.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e478	I would like to thank you for your answer. This issue was also raised when we dealt with the retirement stoppage in June 1998, and I wish that there could be feedback on how to address this problem. At my discretion, the Council of State has two alternatives to solution, either to change current legislation so that you go from guaranteed gross pension to net pension, or to raise the threshold for membership of pension schemes. Today, all with a minimum of 14 hours working week have to pay money to the pension fund. Of course, the pension system has a solidarity average, but this should not mean that part-time employees, often with poor wages and high labour input, are left with the minimum pension after paying up 2 pst. of their wages and salaries for decades.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e485	I can at least say that the question has been raised here today, and that it is expected from Stortinget that the government will come back with possible solutions in this matter. I'm going to take questions, look at the alternatives, and of course I'm going to come back in some form to the Stortinget and the representative with possible answers to the questions raised.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e492	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e496	I would like to ask a question to the Minister of the Church, Education and Research relating to the Lyngmo case, which is ongoing in Alta's right of lord in the period 15-19 November. This is a matter of an intersection between Norwegian law and the interpretation of another law book, the Bible. It is about priests who have renounced spiritual guidance from a superior. The state church system means that it is the Riksadvokat who is prosecuting it on behalf of the Government. It can then be assumed that the strict interpretation of the law is likely to be decisive in this matter. Is this a difficult problem for the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e503	With all due respect for the representative Ursula Evje, with whom I would like to discuss these issues, I have to refuse to comment today. As the National Council responsible, I do not find it right from Stortingen's speech seat to comment on a case that goes to court these days.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e508	The President respects it. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e513	Was it possible to get a follow-up question on it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e518	Yes, if the representative Evje has a follow-up question that the Council of State will not comment on, that's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e521	I'm not going into the case's premises at all, sir. President. If the Church had been an independent legal object in this context, this case could have been processed by a completely different kind of lawyer. In order to avoid these kinds of problems, will the Council of State consider whether a reorganisation of the Church in the future can be possible?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e528	With all due respect for the representative Ursula Evje: As long as the question of follow-up is related, it has the starting point, an ongoing trial, even though it is now a more general and fundamental issue, I choose not to answer it at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e533	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e536	My question goes to the Minister of Church, Education and Research. The Council of State has now given green light to initiate attempts at the addition of principals without pedagogical training in secondary schools, and this will be done in the district of Akershus. Many people believe that the ministry is now breaking a sacred principle that the principals of the school will be educators. One could also register some concerns as this became known in the fall. Now I am aware that the new training law opens up so that the ministry can, upon application, make exceptions to the rule and give access to other ways of organising the rental, and then as time-limited attempts. My question to the Council of State Lilletun is that this does not contribute to the undermining of the educational requirements of the school's top tenure, and that there should be no specific qualification requirements for principals in secondary schools.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e545	From the Council of State it is not at all the intention to approve this experiment. There is a very large plurality in Akershu's county, including the representative Opbebøen Hansen's party, who has wished to have an attempt with another form of appointment for the principal. As the Council of State, I am skeptical as to whether this is presumptuous. But at the same time, once we get a trial paragraph in the training law, and there's a large number of people in a municipality or a state for a trial that I as a government council initially have something skeptical about, it can't be that I in a way just approve of trials that I'm completely in agreement with. The knowledge must be to try out more things, which also a multiple wants to try out. Then it has to be evaluated, and then we have to see if this works. Therefore, I have dubiously accepted the attempt. But of course, the same requirements apply to the educational content of the schools where a rectangle with a different background is added. I mean this in a sense is to take seriously that one should be able to try out a lack, without necessarily believing the evaluation will show that everything in the lack of results only gives good results.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e554	I thank you for your answer. Now it's like the principal of the school's development work, and the principal also has a strong symbol function. The working party is in order for each school to be able to organise the traineeship as a teamwork, but is sceptical that the educational requirements of the principal may be removed. The principal has the professional responsibility and is in many ways responsible for providing guidance in the field of pedagogics. This is not least important when it comes to facilitating the situation of so-called hard-to-use elephants with behavioral difficulties. Although this is now a time-limited trial, and the Council of State expresses his scepticism and doubt, does not the Council of State see any danger that there are several county councils that will hang on and apply for the same experimental scheme as Akershus? Or, in another way, will the Council of State open up that other states that are also applying for such an attempt will be granted?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e564	Now I don't think I'm going to stand here and deal with hypothetical applications that may not come. But I don't see the need for any more such attempts. We now have one, and then it should be evaluated. But in relation to the other issues raised by the representative Upbeøen Hansen, I remind you that both the Labour Party and the representative Upbeøen Hansen and Stortinget's plural – including the government party – are concerned that real competence is something that should be valued more than it has been so far. And then one also has to be able to assess whether real skills can be the basis for an experimentation of the principal, and I guess once again, real skills can give a very good result. But I don't have the purpose to simplify these requirements. The test is not started because it is not. But when a multiple in a state wants to try, they'll get it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e571	The time for the oral question time is now over, and we're going to go to the ordinary question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e576	In view of the high number of questions to be answered, the President finds it necessary to inform him that he is well aware of Section 53 of the Rules of Procedure. The last 3 terms have determined that only one supplementary question will be given after the main question is answered. This is necessary in order for us to be able to finish today's map within the time fixed for this morning's meeting. In addition, the President will announce that there will be some changes in the set question list. In this context, the President refers to the list of representatives in the Chamber, and suggests that the proposed changes in today's Question Time be approved. The President sees it as a matter of fact. The changes were as follows: Question 13, from the representative of Laila Kaland to the Minister for Agriculture, has been withdrawn. Question 14, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture, who has been removed. Question 15, from the representative, Mr Hernæs, to the Minister for Agriculture, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 18, from the representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad to the Minister of Justice, has been withdrawn. Question 19, from Helene Falch Fladmark to the Minister for Justice, will be taken up by the representative Berit Kväven. Question 24, from the representative Inge Wohnung to the Minister for the Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration as the appropriate representative. Following a request from the Minister of Labour and Administration, this question is moved and answered before Question 46, which is to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 24 was answered after question 46. Questions 43, 44 and 45, from subsequent representatives Jan Petter Rasmussen, Torbjørn Andersen and Signe Eye to the Minister for the Environment, must be postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has a disease incident.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e602	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: «The Community Report writes on 29 October 1999 that many municipalities are depriving the tax collection because the municipalities have little left over in relation to the resources they spend on the collection. In any case, municipalities are covered by the tax equalisation of the framework grant. Does the Council of State think that the best organisation of tax collection is the way we are today, or does the Council of State have new ideas or ideas in such an important area?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e611	Let me first say that I fully agree with the representative Eye that the tax collection is a very important area. A functioning and effective tax collection is a prerequisite for the welfare provision that we can provide to the population. That is why I am pleased to note that figures from the Tax Directorate show that more than 99 pst. tax equalised is paid. With such a percentage, Norway places itself entirely at the top of the world. With the introduction of the income system in 1986, a system for balancing tax revenues between municipalities was established. Studies show that differences in income levels best explain differences in service provision between municipalities. From 1986, 300 municipalities were fully compensated for the difference between the tax paid in their own municipality and around 90 pst. of the national average, calculated in dollars per year. the population. The balancing mechanism was revised in 1997 when a new reference level of 110 pst was introduced. of the national average. Nine out of ten municipalities are now covered by the scheme. In the audit, more pointed to the risk of strong cohesion that could reduce incentives for effective tax collection. Since 1997, therefore, the level of compensation has been reduced and from 2001 it will be 90 pst. Regardless of what one might think of the degree of compensation, it is a fact that the proportion of tax paid in relation to tax offsets is as high in municipalities covered by the balancing mechanism as in municipalities not affected by the cohesion. This shows fresh figures from the Tax Directorate. Of course, we have to set ourselves the goal of maintaining the high percentage of collection and, if possible, increasing it further. Personally, however, I don't think only routines and competences determine whether we succeed. The tax will may also affect the percentage of collection. I think the local anchoring of the tax collection itself can have a positive effect on the tax will. This confirms many tax collectors. I therefore believe that today's organisational model with a local anchoring of the tax collection in general should be firm, but of course I am open to see if the system can be improved.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e620	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The Labour Party agrees with the Council of State that the main features of the tax collection should be fixed, and when we know that it is 99 pst. That's what's being demanded, that's good. But 1 pst. represents a lot of money – it actually amounts to NOK 3.5 billion. Therefore, it is very important that municipalities have a carrot, an incentive to operate the tax collection that they should. And when we have such scarce budgets out in the municipalities, it's understandable that it can be downgraded to make other important areas work. That is why I have to ask the Minister for Municipalities: does the Minister for Municipalities think that there are enough incentives in the municipalities for the tax collection to function properly?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e627	As I said in my first answer, the scheme has been amended several times from 1986 until today, precisely in view of introducing as many incentives as possible, in order to ensure as good a collection system as possible. Of course, I also fully agree with the representative Eye that you should do what you can to get as close as 100 pst. as far as possible, or at 100 pst. And as I say, I believe that today's organisational model should be essentially solid. But of course, I'm open to, and I'm going to see if it's possible to improve the model that we have today, to make this even better than it is.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e635	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The operation of a new and fine nursing home in Alta is at risk of having to adjust because the rooms do not have the exact size required — this despite the fact that the size of the common areas and the total area far exceeds the requirements and the construction has a high standard. Many people may suggest that this is a situation that many municipalities are facing. Will the Council of State review these rules with a view to more flexible practice?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e644	I expect that the specific matter to which Arnesen's representative here is concerned is the Evening Hospital in Alta. The House Bank has not received an application from the municipality of Alta for this hospital. The municipality has apparently found that it is too expensive to correct today's standard requirements. Although the building is in good building condition, the hospital has, as I know, some significant shortcomings in relation to what is required of today's nursing home. Among other things, there is a lack of bathroom in the private rooms of the residents, and many of the rooms are still twin rooms. In order to receive grants, nursing homes and nursing homes must be designed in such a way as to be suitable for the elderly, disabled and others in need of care. The House Bank guidelines and guidance for the design of nursing homes and nursing homes provide instructions on how to design the buildings in order to be accessible to people with severe mobility and to function satisfactorily in a nursing situation. The private housing unit shall, according to the guidelines, inter alia: Have a bath. When repairing existing nursing homes, the instructions given must be followed as far as possible so as to achieve a functional standard. No new standard can be met due to limitations in the existing building, the curtailment of the grant is assessed. In today’s building mass, there are many examples that the housing function of hospitals is too poorly cared for. Hospitals, which are to be home to many in the final phase of life, should be of good quality. The State provides large grants through the Senior Care Action Plan. This is done to increase the number of housing units, provide accommodation for all those who want it, and improve the quality of nursing homes and homes. Reparation grants are subject to costs. In the case of major improvements, it is possible to obtain a maximum grant. In my opinion, it is then right to require almost the same standard in the case of repairs as in the case of new constructions. The bank already shows flexibility and discretion in the application procedure, and in my opinion, there is no reason to relax the demands and recommendations made by the bank. But it is assumed that the House Bank continues to use discretion, as they do, especially in relation to existing building masses, where we are aware that for some buildings there are significant problems in achieving today's standard.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e655	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I myself have visited this nursing home in Alta, to which I refer. The hospital is in a fine environment and does not seem to be so strongly institutionalised. You combine the common areas and the area per. room in this hospital, every resident has approx. 80 m2 available. The rooms are nice, but, as I said, some of them lack a bath. The most important thing is that the residents thrive very well, and that the employees and relatives are well satisfied. When I have addressed this question, it is because I believe that resources can be used in a better way than to lay down such a good and well-run nursing home to build a new one. With the major tasks we have in health and care, there must be more urgent tasks where these means can be used. I hope that the Council of State will look at the matter again, because it indicates that the rules today are being penalised too harshly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e666	The undersigned has not visited this hospital, but I have no reason to doubt that – like many other old or existing buildings – this is a building that we should definitely take care of. That's also my starting point. And I myself, as a local politician, have been involved and spent considerable money restoring existing nursing homes to useful buildings that we are still going to use, including in my municipality. The problem is that we have no specific case to assess; we have not received an application from the municipality of Alta in this case. In 1997, the Frikirken – who owns this hospital, if that's what we're talking about, and I assume that it is – was in contact with the House Bank, and they asked for an assessment of a standard raising of the hospital home. After that time we have not received any application from the municipality of Alta, and therefore we have no case for assessment. It is the municipality that has decided on an independent basis to lay down the hospital home. But I'm assuming, as I said in my first answer, that flexibility should be demonstrated, and that existing building mass should be usable.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e678	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: «The Drinking Water Regulation of 1 January 1995 requires all waterworks supplying water to more than 20 households or 100 persons to be approved by 1 January 1996. It was per year. 1996 1,907 such waterworks, 1,084 of them municipal. A recent study shows that only about half has been approved or has applied for approval. What measures will the Council of State take to comply with the drinking water regulation for municipal waterworks?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e687	It is true, as the representative Bastesen points out, that the drinking water regulation of 1 January 1995 imposes on all waterworks supplying water to more than 20 households or 100 persons that the plant must have been applied for before 1 January 1996 or before 1 January 1997 if it was approved in accordance with the previous regulation. However, it is important to clarify that the main point here is not the approval itself, but that all waterworks should meet the new requirements of the drinking water regulation. The reason I distinguish between approval and satisfactory water quality is that many waterworks complying with the drinking water regulations are not yet formally approved. As Bastesen points out, approx. half of the waterworks over a certain size are not approved. But when we look at these numbers, we see that there are far fewer people who do not have satisfactory water quality. This implies that many of the unauthorised waterworks actually deliver water that complies with the drinking water regulation. Now the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is responsible for the drinking water regulation, but I can inform you that what is working on a new drinking water regulation is based on a new EEA regulation. In this context, it will be clearer what is to be included in the approval. I believe that this will lead to much more waterworks – waterworks that currently have satisfactory water quality – being able to arrange the formalities with approval. The problem must therefore be linked to those waterworks which do not actually have satisfactory water quality. Today, this represents approx. 700 waterworks, which together supply approx. 500,000 persons. It is the responsibility of each waterworks owner to comply with the provisions of the regulation. But, as the representative Bastesen is familiar with, there is a government programme for water supply that aims to improve the conditions of those waterworks that are not satisfactory. Among other things, financial support is offered for repairs that are so costly that it is unreasonable for the subscriber to bear all the costs himself. During the five-year period of operation of the programme, approximately 185 waterworks, which together supply approx. 400,000 people, improved water quality with the support of this programme. In addition, some major waterworks, which together provide equal numbers of people, have improved water quality. Due to the fact that the need for improvements has not yet been met, the Government in this area has agreed to extend the programme for a further five years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e700	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was both full and sufficient. But my question concerns municipal waterworks. I can inform the President that it is the municipal council in each municipality that is the approval authority for the municipal waterworks, and when the municipal councils have not agreed to approve the municipal waterworks, the municipal minister should in some way inform them that something has to be done. When we don't get the waterworks approved, it's like a ticking bomb in the export context. There is no doubt that we have good water quality in Norway, and much is done for water quality, but waterworks must also be approved. This can cause problems especially for the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e707	As I said in my first answer, there is an ongoing regulatory change that will make it easier to obtain approval and make the approval more transparent. In fact, we expect that many of the waterworks that currently have a satisfactory water quality, but not approval, will be included in this process quite early after the new regulations are in place. By making it easier, much more waterworks will be approved in that phase. As I also said in my first answer, unfortunately there are many waterworks that still do not have a satisfactory quality, and that will not achieve approval either. The Government has therefore decided to extend the programme for investment in this area for a further five years in order to ensure that all waterworks are approved during that period. It is not only municipal waterworks that supply water to the fishing industry and to other food industries, which depend on approved water, and of course it is also the responsibility of individuals to ensure that this work continues.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e717	I will be asked the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The size agreed that 20 municipalities would be allowed to try out framework funding for earmarked grants. Signals from several municipalities now indicate that what they are allowed to dispose of themselves is so small that there is reason to ask questions throughout the experiment. Does the Council of State think that the experiment now looks like we're going to have some particularly great experience with the experiment, and does the Council of State think that the attempt is more real?'
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e726	There are two different considerations on the basis of this experiment. Firstly, that there should be the most effective framework funding effort possible and, secondly, that the test municipalities should not lose their financial impact on participation. These considerations may contrast with each other. Because of a very complex issue, the Ministry has chosen to carry out a thorough evaluation process in consultation with the experimental municipalities. After contact with and input from these, it turns out that the municipalities have different opinions about the issues raised by the representative Brustad. The question seems to be based on a premise that a decision has already been made on the design of the experiment. However, this is not correct. The Ministry is still in the process of clarifying the details of the experiment and calculating grants to individual municipalities. Here we aim at a balanced balance between different considerations and the different views expressed by the test municipalities, on the basis that the experiment is to be as real as possible. There shall be a framework financing effort as far as possible within the various weighings to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e733	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased that the final line is not included in this case. It's quite obvious, I think, that many of the municipalities that have been taken into the experiment now feel that they are in a completely different situation than what they were told when they sought to become one of the 20 municipalities. One example is the municipality of Stavanger, which was suggested that they should have 250 million. kr seam. This situation from their point of view now looks, they're left with $30 million. kr. If it were to be the result, which I hope it won't be, it would mean that it would be a test that has no value. If we're going to try this out, and that's what the Stortinge said yes to, we're also going to have to spend money on it. If not, I mean that the joke with the whole experiment is no longer there, and then one should then drop it, which I think would be sad. I hope that what the Council of State has said here means that one will continue to work on it, and that one will ensure that Stavanger and other municipalities get significantly more money that they can decide on, than what it is worth per. today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e738	As I replied in a letter dated 5 November to the representative of Brustad, the views expressed by the municipality of Stavanger will be taken into account in the further assessments. As I said in my first answer, no decision has been made on how this should finally be designed. The background is probably partly linked to the nursery allowance. The Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Children and Family are in close dialogue to find arrangements to satisfy the different aspects of the experiment. It leads too far to go into this. It has not been decided, and our starting point is that the experiment should be real and that the proportion of free resources should be as high as possible within the various considerations to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e748	‘In 1999, 474 unaccompanied minor asylum seekers arrived in Norway. The children are temporarily assigned to asylum-seekers, but the aim is that they should be settled in a municipality as soon as possible within three months, even if the asylum-seeker has not been treated. Alone children are very vulnerable, have a high level of care needs and need for normalised life. Only 194 of the 474 are currently residing. What will the Government do to meet its objective?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e755	First, I would like to make it clear that the objective is that the lone minors should be resident in a municipality within three months of they may have been granted a residence permit. It is therefore not from the time of arrival, but from the date of any decision to grant a residence permit that the aim is to settle within three months. That being said, the quick settlement in a municipality is undoubtedly the best solution for these children and a much better solution than a longer stay in reception. For this reason, after an individual assessment, they may reside in a municipality before they may have obtained a residence permit. A majority of the unaccompanied minor asylum seekers are covered by this scheme, and several municipalities have subsequently concluded agreements to receive unaccompanied minors. Unfortunately, it has been difficult to get enough space in the municipalities. At the same time, the number of lone minors coming to Norway has almost doubled in the last year. Many single minors have therefore had a longer stay in reception than is desirable. The housing of the children who come without accompanying persons requires additional arrangements for housing and care, and several municipalities have been unsure about which housing solutions to choose. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, has therefore launched a project for the development of good models for municipal work with lone minors. In addition, a special grant for the work of local authorities with lone minors was increased in 1999 from 80 000 kroner to 90 000 kroner per year. years. In addition, the age limit for the grant was changed from 18 to 20 years. The aim was that the increase in the grant would stimulate municipalities to move towards a faster settlement. I take this situation seriously. I would therefore like to invite, together with the Minister for Children's Affairs and Family Affairs, the Municipalities' Central Association to a dialogue on these issues with a view to clarifying the responsibilities, so that these children do not come out worse than Norwegian children in the same situation. In addition, I would encourage everyone to ask the municipalities to contribute to the serious nature of the work of housing single minors.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e774	I thank you for your answer and am happy that the Government is busy with this. We have to make arrangements to ensure that these children do not come out worse than Norwegian children in the same situation, said the Council of State. We might say that Norwegian children who are under the Children's Protection Act are in the same situation, because they are also in many ways single children. The special grant to the lone minors was increased to NOK 90 000 per year. years, and the age limit was raised to 20 years. But in the case of children's protection, we know that the age limit is 23. Does not the Council of States think that it could be a solution to see whether a person could also raise the age limit for the grant to lone minors, leaving it up to 23 years, so that the economic framework of the municipalities in order to create a normal everyday life around these children was better suited so that the staffing of homes, whether foster homes or other solutions, could be at the same level as for children with child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e781	It's a recording that I want to include in the further work. As I said in my first answer, my starting point is that I, together with the Minister for Children and Family, will take an initiative towards the KS in order to have a discussion of these questions. This is an increasing problem, and it is a challenge that we are definitely going to take seriously and seek to find good solutions. I will neither answer confirmatory nor confirmatory to the recording, but I will include it in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e791	At first I allow myself to point out that I have written the wrong paper in the question. It's supposed to be the Leaf of the West and not the West Bank of Avis, as it says in the question. The question then reads as follows: ‘According to the Vesterålen magazine, the municipality of Hadsel has introduced an additional charge for children who have part-time kindergarten and receive cash support at the same time. The fee is set at 500 kroner per month. This means that parents who choose to stay home with their children two days a week have to pay more for the nursery than for the full nursery. Does the Council of State consider this to be in line with the intentions behind the introduction of cash support? If not, what will the Council of State do to correct this?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e800	Cash support is designed to help families have more time to take care of their own children and to have real choice when it comes to care for their children. Cash support shall also ensure more similarity in transfers of family members to care for children from the country, regardless of how supervision is organised. These intentions are set out in the purpose paragraph of the Cash Support Act. In addition, cash support shall address the need for greater flexibility and combination solutions in the pact with family members. On this basis, it is open to families who have part-time or short-term nursery facilities to receive partial cash support. The representative Svendsen refers to the fact that the municipality of Hadsel has introduced an additional charge for children who have part-time kindergarten, with the result that parents who are well at home with their children’s two days a week have to pay more for the place than for full kindergarten. This is undoubtedly contrary to the intention that the cash support scheme should open up for flexibility and combination solutions in the pact with family members. It has never been the intention that those who receive partial cash support should pay an extra charge for the use of kindergarten. I want to encourage the municipality of Hadsel to change this practice. However, it is the owner of the nursery that established the parental payment. Therefore, the government cannot impose a specific level on the owner of the parent payment. I thought it would be natural for parents to handle this matter with the municipality. It is also up to the owner to assess whether it is possible to provide flexible rest periods in the nursery. The state’s propensity to operate kindergartens has been changed in recent years by strengthening the rates for the short periods of rest, in order to make it economically easier for the owners of kindergartens to offer different periods of upkeep. The government wants a childcare facility that is both flexible and user-friendly, and with a parental payment at an acceptable level. The parent payment rates should not exclude anyone from kindergarten. It is also the Government's objective that the costs in the nursery sector should be shared between parents, municipalities and countries. The state covers at the base of 40 pst. of the costs, and it is a goal that municipalities and parents should each cover 30 pst. As it is today, parents cover more of the costs than municipalities do. In the kindergarten news, which we're going to present before Christmas, the economic situation of kindergartens is discussed, among other things. also measures that could ease the pressure on parental payments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e815	I thank you for the answer, which I am so pleased with. I am pleased that the minister agrees with the content of my question. This is a call for people to go to work and not use the nursery, which is contrary to the intentions of the Cash Support Act. I hope that the Minister will go further and draw attention to Hadsel's municipality and other municipalities that are on such a line, that this is contrary to the intentions of the Cash Support Act.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e825	I have this question to the Minister for Children and Family: ‘According to § 5-7 of the Children’s Protection Act, the county is to supervise public and private child protection institutions. Of the 18 counties, 16 broke the code in 1998. An article in the Evening Post on 29 October 1999 reveals some serious abuses against children in child protection institutions. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the county councils have the statutory supervision of child protection institutions carried out?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e834	According to the Children's Protection Act, § 5-7 of the Regulations, the County is responsible for overseeing the institutions. It applies to both institutions that are in line with their plans and to private institutions other than the plans. The purpose of supervision is to ensure that laws and regulations are complied with, and that children are given defensive care and treatment in the institution — in other words, legal security supervision. In a letter to the Control and Constitutional Committee dated 14 May 1999, I gave an opinion on the supervision of child protection institutions by the county council. In this context, the division of responsibilities between the Ministry of Children and the Ministry of Family Affairs and the Ministry of Labour and Administration in this area was also addressed. The Ministry of Labour and Administration shall be responsible for administrative matters and shall draw up the annual budgets for, inter alia: to cover the costs of the supervisory activities of the county. The Ministry of Labour and Administration has stressed this in the letter when it comes to the resource situation of the county office: ‘In the last few years, the county councils have been entrusted with new tasks in a number of disciplines, without the budget being strengthened... accordingly. In addition, the county offices have been cut off in the budgets, cf. the budgetary clearance for 1997 with a total budget cut of SEK 50 million. This reduced level has continued in later budgets.» The consequence of this seems to be that statutory supervision is not fully implemented according to the imposed requirements. As I see it, the resource situation may have been and may have made it more difficult for work in the field. This ratio was pointed out in St. Prp. No 1 for 1997-98, St. pp. No 1 for 1998-99 and St.prp. No 1 for 1999-2000 for the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. We don't have any other means to commit to office but to assert how important it is that the statutory supervision is prioritised in the tasks of the county council. This is also specified in the allocation notes. I would like to stress that even if all the requirements of the laws are not complied with, the county council has a good oversight and is also aware of the most deferred institutions. The Ministry is in dialogue with the county council on the supervisory tasks at regular intervals, taking into account the best possible exercise of supervision for the benefit of children. In addition to the legal security oversight to be carried out by the county, the professional offer to children and young people is equally important. These measures must be seen in the context of supervision and include: Moreover, the county councils have been given an emphasis on the responsibility they have for ensuring that measures in which children and young people are placed are driven defencefully and in accordance with the legislation. According to this, the size has recently adopted a change in § 5-8 of the Children's Protection Act.Many disabled young people are placed in actions that are often private homes organised in a network. Several of the homes are driven on a commercial basis. The Ministry is currently issuing a bill change such as: will lead to these private homes being approved as foster homes. In order to relieve some of the supervisory tasks of the county councillors, alternative supervisory arrangements will be provided with these homes. Together with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Department conducts a nationwide training of members of the county councils in two new treatment methods for those children and young people who have difficult behaviour. This should be an alternative to an institution. The methods are aimed at strengthening parents and building measures in the community. Research has shown that these methods have produced good results. When all county councils are trained, we expect an improvement in the provision of services to the group of disabled children and young people, and thus fewer questions for institutions. Since 1995, the Ministry has issued ear-marked funds every year to strengthen the competence of children to be placed in institutions. Resources will also be provided in 2000. With the support of the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, a project has been carried out in the county municipalities in 1998-99 to review all private institutions that the municipality benefits from in order to eliminate the use of measures that do not achieve professional and legal security objectives. The result is now in the form of proposals for a comprehensive agreement procedure for cooperation with private institutions not on the county plan. Without such a commitment, an institution will not be useful.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e864	I thank you for your answer. In its reply, the Council of State took note of a number of measures that are now being tried out, including: new methods that will certainly reduce the need for long-term institutional premises. I want to warn you that you put all the balls in a bucket and think that these new methods have to solve all the problems. Here we will also have to have a wide range of offers for children and young people. But the Council of State also confirms that the statesmen do not have enough resources to carry out the regulatory oversight tasks, and it becomes very serious. Many of these children and young people entering institutions have serious traumas and stress reactions, and when they are then confronted with assault, they are in a way confirmed that they do not matter or that these adults are not to be trusted. That is why I would like to challenge the Council of State once again and say: does she not see that, alongside all these measures, extra resources are needed so that the county councillors can carry out the statutory tasks? I want to tell the council that SV has added 2.5 million. kr extra to enable one to do these tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e874	Now the government has put forward a government budget for managing the Storting, and what comes out of it, we already know a lot about it. The people don't have a lot of resources, I'll admit that to the answer, and then we'll see what we can do about it next time. But what I want to stress is that the county officials have a good overview of the institutions that need more frequent supervision and more frequent visits than others, because we have a lot of institutions that work well, where there are no problems, where there is no mention of abuse. I also want to say that where an infringement occurs, it is of course cleaned up immediately. We cannot accept the attack. There have been some headlines in the media, and it's actually about old things where it's been cleaned up. I also know that the statesmen are very concerned about quality assurance, and also some of the private institutions that are used for children and young people who have behavioral disabilities. The project that is going on, which I also mentioned in my answer, will be very important for the county councils to be sure that the institutions they use are going to be good. Here I, as the State Council and the County Council, have responsibility for the fact that the county knows that the institutions they have are good. The county also has a very large responsibility here when it comes to what institutions they use.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e883	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: «The nine-year-old autistic girl has moved from the foster home she has lived throughout her life. The Council of State answered in oral question time on 27 October 1999 that ‘it seems incomprehensible to all of us’ and ‘I use the channels I have, both for information and to see what we can do to influence, so that this child may be there in our view’. The Children’s Ombudsman has also concluded that the decision seems unreasonable and strongly recommended an appeal. The matter is not disputed. What has the Council of State done to help the child?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e892	As the representative, Mr Tömerås, is aware, social affairs are not subject to the Ministry when it concerns individual cases under the Child Welfare Act. Therefore, as a State Council, I cannot revert to its decisions. Those decisions may only be subject to review by the Court of Justice of the European Communities. However, as I promised in Question Time on 27 October, I have obtained information about the matter. I have done this through the channels I have, namely the county, which is responsible for overseeing the municipalities' work on child protection matters. This matter has been handled by the board, and I have no reason to doubt that the board has gone through the matter thoroughly and evaluated all the aspects of it. I would like to emphasise that the subject matter is a broad-based one, where both the legal discretion, the professional beauty and the layman's appearance are taken care of. The laws also have rules of procedure, about the parties' right to explain themselves and to testify, which is intended to ensure a defence-related handling. In addition, the general member has a self-reliance that the matter is informed as well as possible. In general, I would like to stress that matters like this are very difficult and lead to many heavy assessments. The subject shall arrive at a decision that is in the best interests of the child. It is therefore very important that all aspects of the case appear, and that she is handled thoroughly and defencefully. Based on the information and information I have obtained from the supervisory authorities, I have no reason to doubt that this matter has been thoroughly handled. I'm otherwise made aware that the municipality doesn't want to bring proceedings before the courts. This is a decided municipality according to the law alone is responsible for, and something I have to take notice of. My wish now is that the parties can cooperate for the benefit of the child on the basis of a legal decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e905	We are all aware that the Council of State does not have the power to review the decision of the county council, but the clear response of the council of state last time the theme was up in the Storting, created expectations that she would do what she could to ensure that the appeal option would be used. What about the National Council’s authorising authority vis-à-vis the Child Protection Office as a result of the ordinary administrative rules? After all, it's all the state council that has the top responsibility for what's going on and not happening at child protection offices. The Children’s Protection Office in Moss shows that they are not subject to any appeals. No, but they have a new appeal, and they have a duty to care for the child's needs and to do what is best for the child. They have an obligation to ensure the legal security of the child, and the Council of State has the overall responsibility to ensure that it does so. I would like to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State have peace of mind in relation to the fact that legal certainty is best maintained both for this child and for all other children when this matter was not appealed? When, then, is the appeal procedure to be used?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e914	If the council has hurt their stomachs or not in this matter, it is actually quite irrelevant, but I always get hurt in my stomach when I see that children have it hurt. It also has our commitment to this matter. When I spoke in the previous question hour, I spoke only on the basis of a media look-up, and my experience so far, both as a government councillor and formerly a magnificent representative, is that if a person only speaks out on the basis of a media look-up, there is not a whole picture of a matter. I have received a report from the County Council, which also supervises child-restraint work in the municipality of Moss. I have received a full report, and I trust the report I have received on the situation there. And that's where we know there's a lot of things to grab. I have also received a report in relation to the arguments for and against accusing exactly this matter we are now talking about. I like to point out that I think this is a very difficult matter, especially because there is one party that uses the media like the arena here, and the other isn't, but I'm still safe from the information I'm on. I have collected the information that I have the opportunity to obtain, and I am sure that what they have done in Eastfold is in the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e929	I will ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘Does the Government intend to amend the rules on the payment of yard aid via the Export Finance ASA, so that Norwegian yards receiving subsidies do not wait up to nine months after delivery?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e936	Until the summer of last year, the yard support was paid from seven to thirteen months after delivery. In the half-yearly meetings we have with the industry, a question arose as to whether it was possible to change this. We found it desirable for the yard industry to come up with a solution where the yard support could be paid in the past. The rules were therefore changed so that the yard aid is now paid from three to nine months after delivery. The reason why it takes time from delivery to payment of the yard support is that export finance can only calculate what is to be paid in aid after they have reviewed the contracts once the ship has been delivered. This work has become increasingly time consuming, including: because several of the yards choose to build parts of the vessels outside, such as. hull. In addition, additional contracts during the construction period are not uncommon. Now, one year after the previous improvement in payment procedures, it might be natural to look at this again. I would therefore like to take the matter up with Export Finance to see if we can get further improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e945	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. As is well known, the situation of the Norwegian shipyard industry is currently difficult, and today’s legislation will work to provide Norwegian shipyards with shipbuilding tasks. The time of payment has caused a lot of problems, and I am very pleased that the Council of State will take the initiative towards Export Finance in order to achieve improvements at the time of payment, because it is the department that has to take the initiative and make the necessary clarifications in the legislation on Export Finance. Of course, such an initiative by the Council of State will follow up the ASA export finance, so we hope that the time of payment for Norwegian yards can be speeded up as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e952	As I said in my answer, I agree with the replicator that we still need to get better. We've been from last year to this year by reducing the maximum time from 13 to 9 months. I'm going to follow up the question by looking at additional possibilities to reduce the maximum time. Now it has to be this way, both in this and in all other areas, that we have to find the good combination of a thorough and proper procedure and a shortest possible time, and I'm sure we'll be able to make improvements in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e960	I have a question for our Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘Single municipalities ignore the EEA public acquisition rules by going directly to a supplier of goods or services without calling out a competition. Potential competitors on the supplier’s side have no ability to stop the contract award or expect compensation. What will the Council of State do to close the obvious gaps contained in the Government Acquisitions Code?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e969	It is an objective that public acquisitions are to be made on the basis of competition on equal terms for all potential suppliers. Therefore, it is important, as a representative of Hedstrøm, that legislation should have provisions that respect fundamental principles, including the need for legal certainty. The possibility of a legal response to a contracting entity making its acquisitions contrary to the law forms part of this picture. There is currently a sample looking at today's enforcement apparatus. According to the mandate, the sample is assessed, inter alia: the need to take action to better meet the response needs in different contexts. I see that a potential supplier considers it important that it can intervene with a contracting entity that has failed to publish in accordance with the legislation. This is also one of the issues addressed by the sample. The report of the work of the sample will soon be available. I will then consider what action, if any, will be taken to improve the legal certainty of the supplier in this area. In addition, a working group has been set up by the Ministry to assess how the provision of information on public acquisitions can be improved precisely in order to focus on the importance of contracting entities and suppliers having a thorough knowledge of obligations and rights under the legislation. I see it as contributing to increased legal certainty in general competence regarding the legislation and obligations contained therein.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e978	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It appears that EEA law is circumvented by municipalities and other public activities by direct contact with a supplier of goods and services without first submitting the contract. In this way, potential competitors cannot stop a contract award because they are not aware of it until it is awarded or have compensation. The Council of State was aware that a sample is now in the process of finding an apparatus for the enforcement of EEA law, and that is good, because there is unfair and indiscriminate discrimination. In certain sectors, the supply sector, energy, telecommunications, transport and goods, there are rules on penalties for infringements of EEA legislation. Does the Council of State think it would make sense to allow municipalities and other public enterprises that jump over the EEA rules in the purchase of goods and services to be fined in those cases?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e987	First, let me say in general about the legislation that it has not been long since the Storting passed the law on public acquisitions, which includes public activities and municipalities above certain thresholds. We are now working too fully to include the municipalities below the thresholds. I would like to underline the importance of complying with legislation that we have in this area. That's why we have this sample that's working to see if we can get the necessary response patterns when the municipalities don't comply with the law that the Storting has actually passed. It probably has the effect that the municipalities want to comply with the law, because that's what's desirable, that we get a real competition on equal terms. It is for the benefit of municipalities, and it is for the benefit of the different suppliers that they are treated fairly. The sample that is now dealing with the matter, I expect without further ado to consider the proposal that the representative here mentions, namely fines, and that is one of the reaction patterns being evaluated. I will come back to this when the sample has submitted its setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e995	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘The fishing industry represents a very high value creation in Norwegian society and has a very significant impact on the settlement and well-being of Coastal Norway. If the proposals of the marine scientists to reduce the cod quota from 480 000 tonnes to 110 000 tonnes are to be followed, this will have dramatic consequences for both fishermen and society. What measures will the Council of State take to reduce the adverse impact of reduced cod catch quotas?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1004	The Advisory Committee – ACFM – in the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea has proposed a significant reduction in the Norwegian-Arctic cod quota in 2000 compared to 1999. I consider the current Council, based on the best knowledge of marine scientists, to be a very serious signal. The seriousness of the situation concerns the short-term impact on fishermen and coastal communities, i.e. for the next year. However, the reconstruction of the stock, and therefore also the longer-term fishing activity, is also central. Researchers have developed options for different options for the reconstruction of the broodstock. If we choose a strategy to raise the spawning stock to a leading level of 500 000 tonnes in 2001, we will not be able to collect more than 110 000 tonnes of Norwegian-Arctic cod until next year. On the other hand, if we choose a strategy to build up the spawning stock a little bit slower, we can take out a slightly higher cod quota for next year. However, it is quite clear that no matter what reconstruction strategy we choose, the cod quota must be reduced to next year. How much will we get answers to when the mixed Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission has completed its 28th session in Murmansk this week and among others. fixed the total quota for Norwegian-Arctic cod for the following year. The measures needed to mitigate the negative effects of the allowance reduction for next year will need to be assessed on the basis of the final size of the allowance. Various models will be considered in preparation for the December Regulatory Council, which will discuss next year’s regulation of national fisheries, with a view to identifying opportunities for all to have an operational basis until next year. This will be a challenge, but close cooperation between the authorities and industry will be crucial to the outcome. Other specific measures in addition to those managed by the fisheries authorities through the regulatory systems need to be brought back gradually. In this case, it must be achieved through cooperation between several departments. However, I would warn against maximising the situation in crisis. Such an attitude could harm more than benefit. I see it as particularly important in such situations to stick to the fisheries policy that the Government has pursued, and further develop it so that, through a long-term strategy, we can adapt fishing capacity to the resource base without jeopardising employment and rural settlement. Only in this way can we create viable societies that are equipped to meet the challenges we are now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1017	I don't want to criticise the Council of State and the Government for the fact that the fishing resources are unpredictable. But I don't think the fishermen, the industry or the coast of Norway can live with such unforeseeableness. I'm actually questioning the quality of both the recommendations and the determinations of quotas that happen, when in 1997 we had a recommendation of 993,000 tonnes and three years later we come down to 110 000 tonnes – a reduction of almost 90 pst. I noticed that the Fishlayer and the fisheries agreement required 290,000 tonnes, but a frame was set at 110 000. My supplementary question is this: wouldn't it be natural for the state to extend a little longer now, when one has ahead of itself a year that 2000 seems to be? A question in addition to that: Isn't it time to do something about the growing population of marine mammals – sel – especially in the East and West ice cream?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1026	It is true that the recommendations of the researchers regarding the population have varied considerably over the 1990s. Researchers have admitted at an earlier stage that there are weaknesses in the calculation model they have used, and they have, of course, continually tried to adjust and change the model after the experience they have gradually gained. Already in the autumn of 1997, I took an initiative towards the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea in order to set up a larger programme alongside the annual repetitions that they count on, where they could draw on both foreign and other Norwegian expertise to look at how to arrive at a better calculation model. Such a project is already ready and funded in the state budget for next year. We hope that after a two-three-year period you will be able to have a better model established. In the case of the fisheries agreement, the possibility for the EEA Agreement to use grant funds for an industry which is an export industry is limited. In the case of the marine mammals, there is also a greater commitment to the fisheries agreement this year in order to get a larger withdrawal of marine mammals to next year. It is also in the fisheries negotiations that we have with Russia, in cooperation, to bring about a greater withdrawal of marine mammals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1038	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘There have been serious cases of illegal discards of fish from Norwegian fishing vessels. According to the Evening Post on 10 November 1999, the researcher Odd Nakken says that a combination of illegal discards of fish and unregistered fishing, i.e. black fishing, is the main reason why researchers are bombing their stock measurements. Does the Council of State consider that the control arrangements, including inspectors, are working satisfactorily, or will intensified control measures be put in place to stop illegal discards and black fishing?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1047	In Norway’s economic zone, it is prohibited to expel cod, hyss, seine, weeds, mackerel, herring, whiskers, soldering and weeds. The purpose of the draft ban is, inter alia, to: control of the real sea extraction. Despite the measures taken by the authorities to counter drafts, I have reason to believe that drafts actually take place. However, the scope of this draft cannot be determined. Furthermore, it must be possible to assume that there is so-called black marketing of fish, but we do not know to what extent this is going on. Both the draft and black placing on the market of fish result in incorrect official catch statistics. This means that researchers are getting crazy numbers to deal with, which, in turn, may make the calculations of the researchers difficult in terms of stock measurements. Fisheries are constantly working to improve the pattern of taxation in the various fisheries. Controls are carried out at sea using the Coast Guard and checks are carried out on land during landing of catches and during the ex-post examination of documents. Earlier this fall, I have had meetings with representatives of the industry where, among other things, we have had meetings with representatives of the industry. have discussed the possibilities for improving and intensifying controls both at sea and on land. However, in the case of discards and black placing on the market of fish, the problem cannot be solved through control alone. It is therefore essential that each fisherman be aware of his responsibilities by refraining from discarding fish, as well as by contributing to the absence of illegal placing on the market of fish. Therefore, in cooperation with the chairman of the Norwegian Fiskarlag, Oddmund Bye, I have started to ensure that the regulations laid down are followed up in practical fishing. Norway’s Fisheries Team, in cooperation with the Fisheries Association and the Fisheries Authorities, will now take the initiative of a conference in which the search light will focus on the relationship between the different forms of regulation and the control problems that arise. One shall also analyse the instruments that need to be used to regulate and liquidate both fishing and first-hand marketing that can contribute to a legitimate industry. With a view to combating discards of fish, the Ministry of Fisheries has, earlier this year, laid down rules on compensation to fishermen for the costs incurred in landing catches that are either below the minimum or in compliance with the regulations are illegal catches. Furthermore, I believe that the monitoring programme for temporarily shutting down and opening the field, as well as the introduction of sorting fists in cod trawls, shrimp trawls and snorkel reefs, will help fishermen so that they are not tempted to discard fish. Following the entry into force of the new participant law next year, the fishing authorities will be able to suspend concessions in the event of serious infringements of fisheries law. Furthermore, the penalties for such infringements will be extended. This, combined with control at sea and on land, will, hopefully, have a preventative effect in terms of discards and illegal placing on the market. The Ministry of Fisheries has also consulted on a proposal to amend the Seawater Fisheries Act. Here it will be, among other things. proposed to extend the substantive scope of the law. If the content of this proposal is adopted, the fishing authorities will be able to check, inter alia: land-based transport, which in turn could contribute to making it more difficult to operate black fish. Efforts to improve the tax pattern and control of fishing in the Barents Sea are being made in cooperation with Russia. It has long been a priority objective for me that measures can be implemented effectively throughout the Barents Sea. This is therefore an important topic during the meeting of the Norwegian-Russian Joint Fisheries Commission, which is meeting in Murmansk this week. The calculation of a fish stock size is difficult, and one must therefore take into account that the estimations made each year may cause errors. In this context, I would like to refer to my previous answer on the project to be undertaken in order to better calculate the cod stock in the Barents Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1068	I believe, of course, that the Council of State could have been stronger when he described the situation, when he says that he has ‘reasons to assume that drafts actually occur’, and that ‘there could be a further assumption that there is so-called black marketing of fish’. I feel tempted to quote Cohen in Norwegian: Everyone knows it, everyone knows it – that's the way it is, everyone knows it. However, this leads – we agree – to the difficulty of producing statistics, which is not acceptable from a resource point of view. In addition, when illegal drafts are made, and there are blacks on the market, those who operate honestly are penalised when quotas have to be reduced later. So those who run in a real way suffer for it. What I'm asking is, if the way it reacts is enough. In the past, Norwegian boats that broke the rules could also be arrested, just as foreign boats, while a new practice has now been established in which to send the cases to the local police chamber, etc. It takes a long time, and in today’s business today it is said that they are often laid down. In other words, it must be a quick and strict reaction. Should we go back to past practice, from before 1995?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1077	Now it is well that a Council of State should deal with the realities and not throw out claims for which there is no coverage. We have a comprehensive control system to ensure that nothing is wrong with regulation and marketing of catches, and we must constantly try to improve that control apparatus so that errors can be detected. When errors are detected, the usual procedures are in Norwegian case law with notification. If the convictions that come out of a report are not accepted, of course there will be legal proceedings. It is decided by the judiciary. As a fisheries minister, I have no desire to interfere in our legal system; it must follow its traditions and the rules that apply to it. But it is important for us in the Ministry of Fisheries that we constantly develop control systems that allow us to detect everything that is irregular in terms of fishing turnover and fishing areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1096	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1102	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1105	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Agriculture, who is answered by the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Do the Council of State see that the price regulation on agricultural properties can reduce the number of sales of this type of property, and that some properties are also not supplied with the maintenance they need, and that this can therefore lead to the depopulation of the districts in the long term?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1112	I see, as the representative Bredvold is concerned with the issue, that the price regulation under the concession law and the applicable guidelines affect the turnover of agricultural properties. Price regulation may also reduce the maintenance of properties to some extent. This will primarily apply to agricultural property that does not live in and where there are no family, relatives and no interests in the property. An increase in supply requires a market that is willing to pay more than the guidelines for the practice of price control of the concession law. The location of the property is rather crucial in relation to a paying market. However, I do not see, as Mr Bredvold suggests, that price control can lead to such serious consequences as depopulation of the districts. The housing issue in the districts is much more complex than that attributable to the regulation of agricultural property prices of the concession law. I refer in particular to the question of own part-time jobs as a combination of smaller agricultural estates in the districts. There is no clear link between the willingness to sell agricultural property and the price. In a survey in municipalities in More and Romesdal in relation to properties that had been subject to housing and compulsory service, it turned out that 75 pst. under no circumstances would the owners sell. The reason was emotional, as a strong link to property and built and the consideration of children and grandchildren. Those who would like to sell or were interested in discussing such a solution were just 15 pst. In this group, the price question is interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1121	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In a 1999 report, Normann Aanesland and Olaf Holm wrote the following: «The regulation of dwelling and lower property prices leads to lower investment and less activity in the countryside. The survey shows that agricultural properties in this regulated property market have fewer residential buildings and are less maintained than residential property with less regulation in the same municipality.» In the Glåmdalen newspaper of 29 October 1999, we can read about a young couple with roots in the vicinity who have bought a small farm, but the County Agriculture Board rejected the concession request because, in their opinion, the purchase price was too high. If they do not agree with the seller if a new price is accepted by the authorities, the couple must move out again. We don't get a renewal of the population, and we get high-average-age districts. We have also heard rumors earlier about so-called black money under the table to get agreement on the sum. The authorities then, of course, only hear about the amount on paper and approve the sum of sales. Does the Council also see this danger in price regulation, in addition to the so-called evaporation and maintenance decay in our beautiful towns?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1137	The Minister of Agriculture should have had the opportunity to answer that question. This is an assessment that perhaps the Minister for Fisheries has a slightly out of line. But I see it as the Ministry of Agriculture's view that, among other things. there is a need for an adjustment to the existing guidelines on the practice of price control of the concession law, but this does not mean that it seems to have to be removed. Personally, I would say that we have a regulated agricultural industry, where not least the costs of the property, the mass of capital in the industry, are on the total cost side of the industry, and thus come as a result of the agricultural negotiations. So it's important to have such a well-regulated industry that you also have a certain level of price control on the turnover of agricultural properties. Not least in central areas, high prices of such properties will be readily available and it is important to maintain agriculture even in central areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1154	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1160	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘For, inter alia, financial reasons, the Air Force has operated several aeroplanes out of operational service. The six Orion planes from the 333 Quadron on Andeya are on the ground, and only a few of the Coast Guard helicopters are flightable. What urgent action will the Council of State take to ensure rescue preparedness, fisheries oversight and monitoring requirements for military and civil traffic in the vast sea areas under its control?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1169	As the representative Ivar Kristiansen had in mind, the situation of part of the air defence aircraft and helicopters is unsatisfactory. The reasons for the poor status of Orion aircraft and Lynx helicopters in recent months are several. The low operational performance of the helicopters is due to the fact that they have been through and are undergoing some extensive maintenance programmes. In addition, damage and accidents have led to longer workshop stays for one of the helicopters. In the case of Orion aeroplanes, there is mainly a lack of spare parts that cause problems. These parts also have a very long delivery time. In addition, high maintenance needs and updating programmes have recently led to reduced operational performance. It is obvious that the reduced availability of aeroplanes and helicopters means that the surveillance of Norwegian territory and associated sea areas is not as good as it should be. At the same time, I would like to stress that the tasks for which the Defence is responsible in the seas in question must be seen in the context of the total resources of the Defence. This means that resources such as ships, the purchase of satellite images and the use of civil carriers with which defence has been contracted can be drawn in order to carry out the tasks in the best possible way. It is clear that these resources do not replace the surveillance aircraft and the coastguard helicopters, but they are equally fully complementary. It is a fact that the Orion aeroplanes and the Lynx helicopters are starting to grow old and, as a result, require more frequent and more demanding maintenance. As I mentioned at the outset, some of the problems we have witnessed are due to the fact that the aircraft has been through exceptional maintenance and updating. Two of the aircraft are still being upgraded and maintained in the United States. These planes will continue to be indisposed to missions in our seas. However, once the update and maintenance have been completed, it is expected that the situation will improve in relation to today. In addition, a review of the spare part situation and the maintenance concept will be carried out after the aeroplanes have been completed. This is expected to improve the situation. Furthermore, a new material management system has been put in place, which is planned to have an impact on the new year. This will generally lead to better access to parts, which will increase the availability of aircraft, including operational missions. I agree with the representative of Kristiansen that the availability of Orion aircraft and helicopters as they are today is too poor. But in the light of what I have been talking about here, availability will improve once the various measures have been implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1184	This is a frustrating situation — which the Council of State also expressed in its reply. The strength and capacity that we want to have available is quite a contrast to the tasks that we have assigned ourselves in the vast sea areas we have and that we in many sectors are going to serve and monitor. I want to state that there is a rather frustrating situation for those who are concerned about these matters and who are set to carry out the tasks they are assigned to. When we also see that there are plans to phase out two of the six Orion planes in the 333 Quadron on Andeya, it will in itself mean that the availability of this squadron's tasks via the Orion fleet is reduced by 50 pst. Will the Council of State ensure that the level of the number of Orion aeroplanes and the availability of the tasks assigned to them are not further reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1195	I agree with Kristiansen that the situation is not frustrating, so at least not satisfactory. I hope that with the measures that I have now outlined, and by renewing and updating the aircraft and helicopters we have, we will in the long run be better equipped to carry out these tasks, which are correctly described as large. When it comes directly to the question of whether it is possible to do anything other than what is proposed for the two Orion planes, I will always have to rely on a professional military assessment. It's not a decision I can make here and now, but I'm going to promise that I'll take it into account when it comes to the measures that need to be taken in order to be better equipped to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1205	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘The Advocate General has ordered that all convictions be reviewed with a view to obtaining criminal convictions recorded in the Kripos DNA registry. This has been done, among other things, in the Oslo police district, where up to 120 people have been found. Has the State Council provided an overview of the adequacy of the registration of all police districts so that the potential and utility of the DNA registry can be fully exploited?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1214	Changes to the Criminal Procedures Act § 157, second paragraph, on the collection of biological material for DNA analysis came into force on 22 December 1995, while the regulations that established the register only entered into force on 5 September 1997. In particular, in order to resolve the registration related to this transitional period, the Riksadvokat has, through its Circular on DNA registration of 20 December 1998, instructed the police officers to submit to the state attorneys all such matters to be registered and all such matters which can and should be recorded. It is thus a matter of a comprehensive review of the rulings handed down in due course, even before the law came into force, since registration of persons has also been given here on the basis of the criteria given. There is no specific deadline for this work in the Circular of the Advocate General. Liability for the follow-up to the registration of these cases has been entrusted to the Public Prosecutor's Office, which, within its areas of competence, has given the respective police officers time-limits for the transmission of summaries of such cases. The work must therefore be carried out in all police districts. There is no national overview of the number of judges involved, but feedback has been provided that there is extensive and time-consuming work to be found in the judgments in question. Thus, overall work will take some time. Otherwise, most of the practical establishment of the DNA register is in place. The registry of the Criminal Police Centre was manually operational from January 1998. Forms, guides and standardised blood sample sets were ready in March 1998. In the same month, Kripos published a circular to the police districts dealing with guidelines for the register. Routines between police districts, the Forensic Institute and Kripos are established. In December of this year, the EDB registry for the management of the DNA profiles will be operational through the training of personnel and the installation and testing of the system. With regard to information and awareness of the potential and usefulness of DNA analysis and the DNA registry, significant measures are in place. In October this year, Kripos launched an information campaign on DNA. These include: develop a comprehensive information letter on DNA analysis as a tool for police investigation. This has been sent to all police district units – police stations and county officials’ offices – the police special agencies and the sub-policies of the country. The information letter will be followed up with two additional information brochures in the same series and articles in other information channels. Among other things, such information was included in the Ministry of Justice’s information sheet on the police case — ‘New Police’ — last month. It also provides information on the use of DNA analysis at the annual regional police district crime management meetings. With this, it should have well facilitated the widespread use of DNA analysis in the fight against crime.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1234	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The main thing I noticed in his post was that he would leave much of the follow-up to the prosecution, and thought that the work was well started. I would just like to inform you that the Storting decided in 1995 to set up the DNA register. The whole point is that the police have to bring in the DNA profile to those convicted of killing, rape, incest, mischief with children, gross violence and other serious crimes. This means that the police throughout the country need to be active in order to obtain blood samples from, among other things. courts in prisons and security institutions. The register is computer-based and requires a special computer application such as: The FBI in the United States has developed and come a long way. My question in this context will be: will the Minister of Justice ensure that the police gather biological evidence in all criminal cases?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1243	I don't want to go into detail now, but I want to repeat what I said in my main response, that the register is an operationally good tool for the police. There is a work going on so you can take advantage of it, and I want to underline what I said in the main answer, that it is important that it is used. In the future, I will be sure of how the practical implementation is going on, because I can also, as the representative, note that some time has passed, from 1995 to 1997. But when I now sit here and have responsibility, I want to make sure that what is previously expressed by Stortinges is followed up, and I will also follow it up with various practical measures, as I said in my post. The representative can count on that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1258	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1267	This question, from Helene Falch Fladmark to the Minister of Justice, will be raised by the representative Berit Kväven.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1270	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘According to the Aftenpost on 10 November 1999, the Ministry of Justice has asked for an overview of active neo-Nazi groups in the country and an assessment of the threat picture. What action will the Council of State take against out-of-right groups?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1279	We have witnessed a number of very serious things in our neighbouring country Sweden this year, where right-wing extremist groups have been involved. Such events in one place in the Nordic region can quickly have consequences for the region, when we know that there are contacts between the countries among these groups. In our own country, too, we have observed alarming activity in neo-Nazi environments. I therefore find it natural that the police are still assessing the threat these environments pose to our society today. On the basis of threat assessments, it would be natural to review and implement concrete, adequate measures on an ongoing basis. I would like to stress that the environment is closely monitored by all parts of the police. It is clear that any action must be taken naturally in the context of the types of crime and threats facing it. The size of the population has adopted legislative changes in the current year, giving the police a number of new opportunities in the fight against crime, including: use of new investigation methods. When these legislative changes enter into force, and I will see to it that they take place quickly, the Norwegian police will have new relevant working methods that will be able to hit such criminal elements decisively. I would also like to stress that Norwegian police are involved in excellent and extensive international cooperation to combat cross-border crime, not least with their Nordic colleagues. Thus criminal activity across borders should not become a cover and thus prevent the police from detecting crime. I am also concerned that we are getting a better general use of resources in the fight against organised crime. One important element here is that the resources and top skills available in the Norwegian police force are optimally combined and exploited. As mentioned both in St. prp. No 1 for 1999-2000 and in Ot. pp. No 7 for 1999-2000 on changes in central police management, the Ministry of Justice has therefore initiated a project aimed at establishing more formalised cooperation between Økokrim, Oslo Police District and Kripos. The set-up working group investigating the issue shall deliver its nomination in December of this year. I want to look at this position in a broader context, and therefore consider other cooperation models in relation to the current threats and types of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1288	I thank you for your answer. As the Council of State answers, several countries are dealing with the same questions that we are doing here in the country, not least in our neighbourhoods. I wonder, therefore, whether there is a good enough cooperation in this area with our neighbouring country, Sweden, which has noticed the problems to an even greater extent than Norway. Such closer cooperation may be possible, e.g.: more formalised cooperation is one of the measures that can be assessed in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1295	I would like to repeat two points: firstly, there is no need to minimize neo-Nazist activity; it is closely followed by all parts of the Norwegian police. Secondly, there are a number of ways of working together towards the Nordic countries and towards other European countries, including the United Kingdom. through Interpol, so that the police have access to different forms of work. Information channels are therefore available to prevent violent activities, activities where criminal acts are planned, from threatening the normal rule of law. In my opinion, we have the means, and we also have the will to use them. This was the main gravity of my first answer. I'd like to underline that, because there's no reason to minimize what we're facing. But I don't want to go from Storting's pulpit to the details of how the police are operationally assessing or going into details of the threat picture, except to note once again that these questions are not trivialized, they are followed very carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1305	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘11 schools in Oslo are completely or partially closed due to health risks, showing an overview of the protection services. In addition, a number of other schools are at risk of closure. In other parts of the country too, there are many examples of school buildings that are worn out and that are harmful to health. How does the Council of State assess this situation, and what does he think should be done to improve these unworthy conditions?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1314	Working Environment Act of 4 February 1977 No. 4 is the most important legislation for the working environment in the school. I consider it obvious that the municipalities that employ employers are complying with the labour law for all their activities, including the school. In principle, work environment laws do not apply to students, although they are protected indirectly because pupils and teachers are often kept in the same locality and are subjected to the same health impacts. However, this protection will not always be present when elephants and teachers stay away from each other. Against this background, the regulations on environmental law have been developed for the protection of health in kindergartens and schools to take care of the special interests of students. Regulation of 1 December 1995 No. 928 on the protection of health in kindergartens and schools, etc. is the given rule on the use of buildings and equipment in the school, including new buildings. The basic principle of the regulation is that the activity should be of health satisfaction. Responsibility is shared between the owner of the enterprise – in this case the municipality – and the manager of the enterprise – the principal. The principal is responsible for ensuring that the regulations are followed, and the local authority can impose regulations on the principal. The municipality is responsible for the fact that there is an internal control system in place. In connection with the management of Document No. 8:14 for 1995-96, 21 March 1996, cf. Inner. S. No 144 for 1995-96, the Stortinget took the following decisions: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up legislation to ensure the physical working environment for pupils in line with the provisions applicable to ordinary workers.’ Against this background, a working group was identified with representatives from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Finance and Customs. The group is run by the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research. The mandate of the working group has been to clarify the legal status of the physical working environment of students and to assess the need for more legal regulation. The working group believes that the requirements for the student's working environment are satisfactory and that it can be seen that it is primarily the practice of these requirements that will determine whether students get a good working environment. The working group therefore recommends that an assessment be made of how municipalities practice the regulation on environmental health protection in kindergartens and schools and, on this basis, assesses the need to strengthen the requirements of the working environment for pupils. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has carried out such an evaluation and a preliminary report shall be submitted before the end of December. The final evaluation was expected to be completed with a final report by January 2000. This work will provide a brief overview of the state of the schools and how the legislation works today. This will provide a good basis for considering any legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1341	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In practice, it turns out that there are not enough legal regulations and requirements in relation to the Working Environment Act when we see how the situation is, among other things. in the Oslo schools – perhaps especially in the Oslo schools. The fact that students get sick from going to school doesn't belong anywhere. We have to do something about pretty fast. It turns out that maintenance of school buildings has been a balancing item in municipal budgets for many years. I therefore believe that there is not enough legal regulation; other measures must be considered as well. How does the Council of State consider, as an addition to legal regulations, to initiate incentives, possibly earmarked grants, to enable municipalities to upgrade the schools that so badly need them?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1350	I agree with the representative Dørum that there is no room at home for the elephant to get sick because of the school system. At the same time, we know that we have a system where the municipality, the school owner, is responsible for both the construction and maintenance of the schools. With the transmission system we have, it's not easy to see how such an incentive system should be organised. It would be easy for someone to give special help to those who are poor today, and who may have neglected to do so while those who have done their job are not getting part of these incentives. What we want to assess when the evaluation is completed is whether or not a central order should be inserted, so that the responsibility remains, but if it is not followed up, central order may come. What I think is a necessary assessment that will be taken by us, and I think maybe that's the tool that can be used.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1360	‘The Council of State stated in the ordinary Questionnaire of 14 April 1999, on a question of a review of the working environment of students, that he would await the life-cycle survey before such a review. The year-on-year survey came in June 1999. Has the State Council started work on the student working environment, or is there any additional basis for deferral, and in which case?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1367	In Question Time on 14 April this year, I was asked about the review of the students’ working environment that was announced in the 1999 budget proposal. I then replied by referring to the study of the prevalence of students carried out by the Statistical Central Bureau in 1998. In the report presented in June 1999, there is an increase in the relationship between learning environments, such as: the study situation, work outside studies, health, social contacts, budgeting, study funding and the general economic sectors. In St. prp. No 1 for 1999-2000, the State budget of the year, I also look at this living conditions survey by the SSB, and the Ministry says: ‘The study shows that students are consistently satisfied with their studies, but that some areas of interest to the learning environment can be improved.’ It's also going to be in St.prp. No 1 gave way to work on the matter. Under strategies and measures, the Ministry states: ‘The Ministry will follow up the report on the student living conditions. This will be seen in the context of a report on the division of responsibilities between the host municipality and educational institution/cooperation and report from the Education Finance Committee [[Aamodt selection]] The Working Environment Act applies directly to students when they are in practice and when they are in practical training under conditions that could endanger life and health. The law also applies indirectly to the students by adding to the employment of educational institutions the work environment law applicable to them. In addition, the Law on Universities and Higher Education states that institutions are responsible for their learning environment. Even if this paragraph does not set out specific requirements on how the working environment should be shaped, institutions are required to ensure that the physical and mental working environment does not impede a good learning environment. I also want to focus on the responsibilities of institutions. The Ministry of the Church, Education and Research considers it particularly important that institutions provide a good learning environment. The physical work environment is an important part of a good learning environment. The Ministry has led institutions to develop good quality assurance systems for teaching and to evaluate it. The institutions are also required to introduce the student evaluation of education. At a time of falling student numbers, quality assurance and development are increasingly important for institutions to get applicants for their education. The Norwegian Network Council, as one of its main tasks, has to ensure that educational institutions develop quality assurance systems for education and research. The Council shall also evaluate its work on quality assurance and take initiatives to evaluate education and training. During the course of the autumn, the Norwegian Network Council will draw up guidelines and procedures for assessing the quality assurance activities of the institutions. In the quality assurance work of teaching, the student is always seen in the centre, and this means that the working environment of the students is also assessed. As a follow-up to the search results of the institutions now required of the students, and the requirements of the department that the institutions have to document their quality assurance schemes, I am sure that the working environment for the students will also be preserved. The Ministry will also collect data broken down into institutions from the living conditions review and communicate and use them further in our contacts with the institutions. In particular, a follow-up will follow-up to the institutions that come out badly after this review.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1395	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that he also refers here to the rights of employees in relation to the existing work environment law. But it becomes a little problematic for me when a mix of relationships that the Host Municipal Committee is going to deal with, because that is essentially what happens outside the individual learning institution, and the relationships that the students are exposed to there. When it comes to the work on priorities, etc., I think it's very positive. But it surprises me that this is emphasized when we know that e.g. The student house in Bergen, which has a very bad environment, is not a priority at all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1404	The host municipality scheme will have a great deal to say about the overall learning environment. That's why it's included. Although to a large extent outside the institution, it will have an impact on the learning environment. When it comes to the concrete example to which Ursula Evje refers, I agree with her that it is tragic that a building from the 1960s to the degrees everything should be as bad as it is built. But at the same time, the government has said in the budget – and I have the impression that there is a great deal of excitement about it – that in a time of high economic activity, the public should be restrained from launching too many large buildings. Therefore, it will have to enter the queue of construction products that are leading, and that is why there is no money for it in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1414	I have the following questions for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘International Baccalaureate lines are a recognised offer in higher education, with a valuable combination of academic education and personality development in an international framework. In Norway, there will be a reasonable target for at least one IB offer in all counties. What can the Council of State do to stimulate the states to make such a goal a reality?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1423	I agree with the representative Wage that it is valuable to put general education and personality development in an international framework. I have previously said that we need to focus more on the world around us and place greater emphasis on international work and solidarity with others. I also agree with the representative's assessment of the International Baccalaureate lines in Norway. They contribute positively to the lack of further training. However, the creation of IB lines is only one of several ways to go for county municipalities that will place greater emphasis on the international aspect. It's e.g. establish direct contact and cooperation with several schools abroad through SOCRATES and LEONARDO programmes. Other schools and county municipalities have set up their own bilateral cooperation agreements with schools and institutions abroad, enabling students in these schools to take part in their education abroad. Ten further schools are part of a scheme where the students receive support from the Loan Fund to take a school year abroad. The system will now be evaluated and the result will be presented around the year. In Norway, we have also taken the initiative of a cooperation project under the auspices of the Council of Europe, which helps in particular to stimulate the exchange of classroom lessons between Western Europe and Central and Eastern Europe. This is by no means a complete picture of the activity in the area, but it is an indication that a lot of things are happening. I expect all our continuing schools to take both the professional side, what the representative of Wohnning calls academic schooling, and the human side, the evolution of personality, seriously. Putting these two pages into an international framework is a central task for all the continuing schools. A new plan for internationalisation and globalisation in the ongoing training has just been heard. This plan discusses the responsibility at the various levels of the system. I welcome the fact that internationalisation is an important part of the provision of further training. The Ministry would like to contribute to such a development. On the other hand, it would be wrong for me to go in with a separate incentive tool aimed at individual measures, such as: IB lines. The county councils must decide on the choice of strategy for internationalisation as a school owner. I expect that it will also provide development space for the IB option over the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1441	I thank the Council of State for the answer. That was a good answer, but to a slightly different question than what I asked. I did not ask questions about internationalisation in general. What is specific to the IB lines is that it is the only international offer in Norwegian school, i.e. with a professional plan and certification applicable to all countries with this offer. It's per. Today, 100 countries have these lines, and there are 1,005 schools per. today. Of these 1,005 schools, there are only 12 in Norway. The peculiar feature of this offer is that it imposes significantly higher demands on the work of students than does the usual secondary school. My specific question to the Council of State is: Should this not give an indication of the rules for admission to universities and colleges? Today, it does not do so in the Norwegian system — rather, on the contrary. It discriminates against those students who voluntarily choose to submit to more stringent requirements than the average. It's unreasonable, at my discretion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1448	I am grateful that the representative Wohnning thought it was a good answer, even if it was on a slightly different question. But to go concretely on the follow-up question that he had now, I see that there might be a point that it gives a special counting in relation to admission to higher education. But once again, I have to say, it's a long-term process. The representative for Wage knows how vulnerable this system is. We're going to have a bigger review, and then I'm going to take that point with me, because it's obvious that there's a reality in it. I also agree with the representative that there should be more IB lines. From my standpoint, it would have been absolutely inconceivable that there was at least one line in each state. But there's a principle approach from me that if a state actually wants another form of internationalization and bets strongly there, I won't try them out at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1458	I have the following questions for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘In the Sokndal municipality of Rogaland, a child of 11 years of age who has a total school path of 12 kilometres by bus has to go almost 4 kilometres to and from the bus every day. Should the distance for school pillows be counted from the home address of the school, or should the distance, such as in the municipality of Sokndal, be calculated from another randomly chosen geographical point, such as the nearest bus stop?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1467	Let me first make it clear that I cannot decide on the specific matter to which the representative Ursula Evje refers, since it may come up as a complaint with the department's subordinate body, the State Education Office in Rogaland. So I want to comment on the question on a more general basis. The Training Act § 7-1 states: ‘Students aged 2 to 10 years who live more than four kilometres from school are entitled to free shooting.’ The pavement shall be counted from door to door by road. The limit of four kilometers triggers straight to the sky, but the student can't normally require to be blown all over the world. It may be expected that the student will have to go a certain distance to a collection place. What's such a reasonable walking distance? This must be decided on the basis of understanding, where it is, among other things. emphasis is placed on the age of the student, on road safety and on the availability of the route. For example, it will. be untimely to set a walking distance to public communication of up to two kilometres for the first-class/pre-sole elephants and up to four kilometres for the second-class elephants. Such distances simply trigger directly to the sky, and there is a requirement that the cloud supply should cover most of the accumulated distance from home to school. I am aware that many counties practice the legislation so that the first-class/pre-sole elephants have to go up to one kilometer to a collection site, and that the elephants in the other classes have to count on walking up to two kilometres. In principle, such a practice will lie within the framework of the laws. However, I would like to stress that the county council has to assess whether the right to a school pillow is fulfilled for each case. The challenge is to exercise a healthy mind, so that most people can understand the conclusions. I also show that, as a general rule, the county council is responsible for the school shower in the county. The municipality's obligation is to participate in the financing of the passenger tariff. In addition, the training law places responsibility for showering due to a particularly dangerous or difficult school road, to the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1485	I thank you for the answer given by the Council of State, and in particular for the supplementary comment he made on § 7-1. I have probably a question since the Council of State refuses to comment on this specific matter because it might be an appeal, especially given that the local authority's experts in newscasts on TV have gone out and said that there are guidelines from the county to the individual municipality that are clearly something across the Committee's intentions when they laid this rule. What makes this relationship special is that this road is already running by a minibus for all other children living in the area, except this 11-year-old, and there is free space on board the minibus. It must be completely unreasonable that the bus is first driven and the student is going after!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1494	In order to be sound in administrative terms, I have to adhere to the principle that a case which may come to an appeal procedure, I will not comment from Stortinget's speaking room. But I'm going to give a general comment on the last question from the Ursula Evje representative. For most people it would seem unreal that a shot that goes the same distance and that has space cannot include an extra student. It is clear that one should adhere to the legal framework, and if there is a situation where there is no room, there must be legislation based on laws and regulations, such as debt. At the same time, however, we – both management and politicians – have a responsibility to exercise understanding and practice in a way that can achieve general acceptance. And that's where I understand the Evje's point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1501	Question 24 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1507	«According to the Journal on 8 November 1999, State Secretary Marit Totland says: «One of the reasons why we have received several Christian private primary schools is that parents have enough difficulty in accepting the new subject of Christian knowledge with religious and life views. [[CRL]] Is this an assessment shared by the Council of State and what may be the consequences?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1514	The Training Act gives parents the right to choose to provide their children with alternative training to the provision of the public base. Courts include: anchor in a principle of international law that they should be able to ensure that children are trained in their own faith or their own outlook on life. This may include: realized by the creation of private schools. At the same time, international law gives the State the right to set minimum requirements for such alternative training. The representative Synnøve Konglevoll quotes on the question of his State Secretary Marit Totland, who has said to Dagbladet that some parents do well to send their children to private Christian schools because of the dissatisfaction with the new KRL subject, and that this has led to several new Christian foundations. I share this assessment. I have registered, as State Secretary Totland says that some parents are so negative to the new subject that they drew such conclusions. However, we cannot say that this is the main basis for new applications for the right to start new Christian schools. For me, it is important to work for a public school that all the elephants should be able to feel at home and be safe in, and that parents want to send their children to. In my view, the school provides solid and value anchoring and training, anchoring in Christian and humanistic values and in close contact and understanding with the home. Just in respect of parents and what they stand for, I have put great emphasis on dialogue with the world when it comes to the planning and practice of the CRL subject, with liberal exemption schemes and a broad framework for local adaptation. I suggest that evaluation of the CRL subject has been started. The results are expected in the autumn of 2000. Until the evaluation reports are carried out, I will maintain current liberal practices in relation to the subject. I strongly want most parents to be content with it and participate in a good dialogue on content and methods of training. At the same time, I have respect for the fact that individual parents may find that they do not want to benefit from the new job offer, and that they, among other things, do. for that reason, private Christian schooling options for their children, in accordance with the parental principle contained in international conventions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1525	This was an answer that had to be interpreted. First, the Council of State says that he agrees with the assessment that this new subject is a reason why many more want private schools, but at the same time he argues that it is so liberal practice that there should be no reason for it. I want to take the freedom to claim that one of the reasons why there is now so much search to establish private schools is that the government is responsible for a different and far more privatisation-friendly policy than the previous governments have done. Let me ask the question a little differently: can the Council confirm that the Government wants more private schools? And does the Council of State agree that in this statement made by the Secretary of State, that many Christian parents have difficulty accepting the CRL subject, is there a criticism of the CRL subject, since many parents, according to the Secretary of State, do not want the children to be taught in this subject?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1532	I do not agree with the representative of Konglevoll that there is a criticism of the KRL subject in this nominee. What State Secretary Totland has done is to mention the reality that there are some parents — not many, but some — who have used the CRL as a basis for establishing a Christian school. So there's no point of view, it's a registration, and I tried in my first answer to do pretty good because I'm not along that line. I think that the new subject is well-practiced by parents in respect of their way of life. But when a few of them finally assess this differently from the Council of State, I respect that, according to the laws that we have, they will be able to establish a private offering.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1540	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Church, Education and Research: ‘As agreed, high school students are entitled to a given number of hours free to carry out organisational or political work. However, several schools consider this absence to be part of the 15 pst. which is the limit on taking a stand in a subject. Does the Council of State consider such an interpretation to be correct?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1549	The rules governing the conduct of absences are laid down in the regulations of the Training Act. It follows from the regulation that absences should not take place for a total of up to 14 days a year when the student has taken part in work as a trust candidate in country-based organisations or student organisations at regional or country level. The regulation also opens up the possibility for the student to carry out organized or independent study work, including school administration tasks in agreement with a professional or principal, without this being considered absence. All other absences are required, but the student can then request that the reason for the absence be checked on the diploma. In the regulation there is no maximum limit of 15 pst. for absence to have a professional position. It is also not possible to set such a limit from a central perspective. The decision is whether the student has been present sufficient for the teacher to have the basis for setting his or her position. I'm aware that individual pods have fixed such a 15 pst. the exclusion limit in school regulations and/or regulations. The 14 days for which absence is not required are not included in this percentage. Even if the student has been absent beyond any 15 pst. the absence of a percentage limit set by the school may require a stand-up character. I see it as important that the school facilitates the participation of elephants in the continuing school in organizational work and political work. The central issue, both in the practice of the rule of absence in the regulation and in the case of any percentage of absence laid down in the school regulations or regulations, is whether the student has been so much present in the course of teaching that the teacher has the basis for identifying the subject. This must be decided in concrete terms on a case-by-case basis, including: with regard to the organisation of training and the time spent by the student. I would like to end by stressing that a student is entitled to a position character if the teacher has sufficient basis to assess the student in the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1564	I would like to thank you for the answer and clarify that there is a difference and must be dealt with differently when a student has absence due to illness or other reasons, and when a student withdraws absence under these provisions. The wording of §4-28 of the Regulation of the Training Act may not be misunderstanding. The absence of a high school student for political work, limited up to a total of 14 days, is not to be regarded as absence, and the second is to be compensated for by the self-employment of the student to be organised by the school. In other words, the school is actually responsible for ensuring that the student gets the same knowledge even if he or she has been away for organizational reasons. It also means that you can't say that the student won't get a stand if he or she has taken out the 14 days. I would ask the Council of State to make this clear both for the county councils and the individual schools. There are schools, including: in Oslo, which practises this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1569	I fully share the interpretation given by the representative Nybakk of this paragraph. If it is such that a person practices this in the way that the representative Nybakk now said, I am going to make sure that at the next natural conditions in connection with information to the schools, we will include a clarification in relation to this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1577	I have the following questions for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘The school’s purpose paragraph as formulated today is not in agreement with an understanding of the school as a single school for children of all religions and views of life. It is Bishop Gunnar Stålsett who declares this at a conference under the authority of the Value Commission. Does the Council agree with Bishop Stålsett, and will he take the initiative in a debate on a new purpose paragraph which ensures the school a valuable and instructive basis and which cannot be interpreted as a sign of dechristening?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1586	The subject-matter of the school has been discussed in Stortinget at different conditions in recent years, mainly in connection with the treatment of the basic school reform, Innst. O. No 95 for 1996-97, and of the proposal for a new Training Act, Innst. O. No 70 for 1997-98. A key issue in the evaluations and debates was the relationship between the purpose paragraph and important obligations under international law. At the centre of the discussion was a statement by international law expert Erik Møse, who, after a thorough examination of the case, concluded that the purpose paragraph ‘rarely in itself is contrary to the human rights conventions’. The majority in Stortinget ended up at both levels of this assessment and entered to continue the current purpose paragraph, most recently in the treatment of the new training law in the spring of 1998. So, as I'm interpreting it, the plural has assumed that the purpose paragraph does not conflict with the understanding of the school as a one-way school for children of all religions and views of life. I share these assessments and believe that through the current purpose paragraph, the school ensures a safe value anchoring and a solid basis for cleaning and training. I assume that the practice of the purpose paragraph is to be done in close understanding with the home. The ball shall be inclusive and shall show respect for different cultural, trust and value perceptions. Training should provide Christian and moral sustenance, anchor in Christian and humanistic values. Christianity forms a deep stream in our parish and is a central part of the Norwegian and European cultural heritage. At the same time, the humanistic values, represented by democratic and human rights principles, are a natural and integrated part of the value base of the school. The question of the purpose paragraph in the school has recently been frequently raised against the discussion of the subject of Christian knowledge with religious and life-oriented orientation. I point out that work has been undertaken to evaluate this new subject and that the final report from the evaluation work is expected to be ready in the autumn 2000. In my view, due to the close links between the purpose paragraph and the KRL subject, it is both unwise and wrong to raise a debate on the wording of the current purpose paragraph now, in advance and independently of the debate that will come on the KRL subject on the basis of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1597	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State and I are probably largely in agreement on the place of Christianity in the Norwegian community, as we want it to be. But I'm a little disappointed that he spends a lot of time on history – what has happened, and the debates we've had on the Christian purpose paragraph in school in the past. I wish we had a certain will and ability to think forward. Because we are facing some new challenges in the future, and it is important that we start the debate on this quite early. We are likely to face the winding up of the Church of the State if not for a very long time. The church itself conducts an investigation, and there is reason to believe that something will happen. We can only look at Sweden, and we have a lot of experience from similar things, so there's reason to think that there will be changes. The CRL has been a problem; there have been some conflicts between different cultures that we have taken with us and got into school and have been clearly demonstrated there. So I would probably like the Council of State to show a greater willingness to look forward to the challenges we face and the changes that happen in society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1602	I see that there was a very good reason to give a brief historical description here, because there are only a few years ago exactly the problem that the representative Rivamm raised, the purpose paragraph versus international conventions, was central to that debate, and there was a significant premise, as the representative Rivamm raised the question now. That's why I think that's a good reason. It is clear that I agree with the representative of Reikvam that we will look forward. We live in a new age and in a more multicultural society. It also has to rent out that we're able to really live up to the last part of the same purpose paragraph, that we're going to act for peace of mind and tolerance. But I think that taking care of our thousand-year heritage also provides a good basis for taking care of the relationship with other cultures and the new challenges of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1612	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In the context of the plans to merge Stor-Oslo Local Traffic and Oslo Sporveier, the State’s representatives in the SL Board of Directors have made a protocol submission stating that the negotiated merger agreement is not good enough. [[SL]] Is the Council of State aware of this, is he in agreement with the representatives of the State, and is he aware that this could overturn the plans to establish a common public transport company in the Capital Region?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1621	The plan for a joint transport company in Oslo and Akershus has been in progress for several years. When the Board of Directors now has a merger agreement ready, it is important that this quality is ensured also within the municipality, county and state. The submission of the minutes by the representatives of the State is intended to be a contribution in this direction. The submission of the minutes by the State representatives of the SL Board opens with satisfaction that the members of the Board of Directors of Oslo Sporveier AS and Stor-Oslo Local traffic a.s had negotiated proposals for a merger agreement. I am also happy to have come this far. The issues raised concern issues relevant to State responsibility and legislation. I am concerned that the questions are answered in a good way, and will contribute to this being done. I find this kind of pre-work to be able to overturn the plans of a common public transport company to be unlikely and not desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1630	After listening to the Minister of Transport, I have to say that the well-known expression ‘good day, man – axe shaft’ has a new meaning to me. I raised three issues in my question, and the Minister of Transport was barely in touch with one of them. It's been working on this for a long time. In 1994, the State took the initiative to take the ownership side of Stor-Oslo local traffic. And then state representatives on the SL board say that ‘the selected organisational model... may create ambiguities for applicable domestic and foreign legislation and practices’. They also say that: «government representation by the State of the merged company should be assessed». So go against what the state has said for years! Then I ask the question again: Does the State, by the Minister for Transport, mean what the government representatives say? And can the Minister for Transport now guarantee – in order to sweep aside all doubts – that the State will not put chains in the wheels to put the merger in place?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1649	I believe I answered all three questions in the short answer I gave. What was referred to by the representative Myrlis is part of the protocol delivery. But I have already informed and clarified that there was a positive angle and the introduction to the entire agreement. Both the representative Myrli and I depend on us to follow the legislation that applies to both the municipality, county and state. That's what the protocol supply wants to clarify. I am concerned that the questions raised in the protocol are answered in a good way. I will contribute to this. I do not see it as probable or desirable that the merger is in any way delayed or in danger. The state has made a strong contribution in recent years to getting this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1661	I allow myself to ask the following questions to Minister for Transport Dag Jostein Fjærvoll: ‘The Road Administration in East Agder has applied to the Directorate of Road for permission to set up a ‘simple Swedish central discount’ at the E18 at Rannekleiv – Temse, and has also applied for reimbursement of the cost of work of 15 million. krones. The application was sent in August 1999, but they have not yet received a reply from the Directorate of Roads. What is the position of the Council of State on this application, which may be an important measure to improve road safety?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1670	The development of a new European road between Arendal and Grimstad is now under way. The road is scheduled to be opened to traffic in the autumn of 2000. The road is constructed, in line with the applicable standard road standard for tribal roads, such as the Class B two-field motorway with level-plated crossings. In addition, both directions receive separate pass-by fields on parts of the route. This means that about half of the parcel is built as a wooden road. When the road is put into service, this part of East-Agder will have a modern road system, including: secure crossings and with means of passing by without using the opposite lane. According to the Directorate of Roads’ assessment, the investment situation of the project for 1999 and 2000 does not allow for cost-added measures. The recovery of the costs of implementing any additional measures in this project must be done by postponing parts of the county's other road safety measures. The Directorate of Roads therefore rejected the application by letter of 10 November 1999 to set up middle parts of the route. I accept the decision of the Directorate of Roads. I see it as important that measures specifically aimed at improving road safety, such as roadside and off-road improvements, the construction of pedestrians, etc., are not harmful elsewhere in the county. In Norway, there is no practice of using physical distinction between the directions of travel on this type of road. The Ministry of Transport asked the Directorate of Roads earlier this year to follow in the trials carried out in Sweden, with some middle parts on two- and three-field roads. The Ministry of Transport, in cooperation with the Directorate of Roads, will assess possible similar measures in Norway. This matter will be discussed by the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1683	I thank the Minister for Transport for the answer. Governments have themselves been a front figure in highlighting road safety as a field of activity rather than building new roads. E18 from Oslo to Stavanger is very busy and unfortunately has a tragic record in the number of deaths in traffic. That record is in East Agder. This route should now be given priority in relation to preventable accidents. Frontal collisions are almost the main cause of the accident. This can best be prevented by a physical middle discount. E18 may become a good pilot project, the physical mid-line discount being included as part of such a project. In East Agder, we have had an experiment with reduced speed limits without increasing speed controls, without leading to more favourable statistics on the number of deaths. We can increase the experimental value by facilitating a simplified central discount and making our own attempts to increase road safety. When will the Minister for Transport come back to the matter and will he be willing to give priority to the security of the E18?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1692	The Council of State may confirm that it will give priority to road safety at E18. I clearly admit that this project is at a stage where it is difficult to change plans that seem fairly good. And when I say fairly good, it's because it's a mix of two-field and three-field roads, where you take the necessary options for departure and passage. When you go into it, it seems to be a good project. However, I am concerned about gaining experience from the Swedish test set-up, and I need to mention that the Road Directorate has stated in its draft planning document that middle parts of two and three-field roads will be assessed. In this context, in its work on the plan section, the Ministry has asked the Directorate for further details on the basis of which they would recommend the establishment of such centres and a statement of preliminary results from Sweden. So the question leads to follow-up and will be presented specifically to Stortinget at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1704	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In Norway, deaf people are denied a driving licence of category D1, including with reference to EEA rules. In Denmark, the problem is solved by the fact that minibuses to be operated by deaf people are exempted from the regulations if there are additional rear-view mirrors. Will the Council of State take the initiative to introduce similar arrangements as in Denmark also in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1713	I point out that the question of whether deaf people in Norway will be allowed to obtain driving licences in heavier classes has been raised in the past on a number of occasions, at the latest in the Questionnaire on 3 March this year. At that time, the question also referred to differences in practice between Norway and Denmark. I therefore refer to the previous presentation of the legislation, including the obligation for national authorities to establish hearing requirements in relation to the issue and renewal of driving licences in the heavier categories. The requirements shall be established in the light of the opinions of the competent medical authority, which is in Norway the State Health Authority. The Health Inspectorate's guidelines show, inter alia, that: that, in the interests of passenger safety, stringent sensory requirements should be imposed on the driver of buses and minibuses. The health provisions of the driving licence regulation are laid down on the basis of road safety considerations. These are considerations that need to be given great importance to practical policies. Therefore, with reference to the road safety assessments carried out by the State Health Authority, I do not see sufficient grounds for initiating changes to current practice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1722	Thus, since the Council of State replied that the legislation was conferred on national authorities, it has been established that there are opportunities for Norwegian authorities to change the legislation so that deaf people can drive minibuses. So it does not want the Minister of Transport to take any initiative on this. He points out that the Health Authority believes that there is a need for strict sensory powers. Now it is that many listeners have quite loud music in the car and are disturbed by so much, while deaf people develop other sensory abilities better as compensation for the sense they have unfortunately lost. I feel that it is unworthy and unreasonable to deprive deaf people of the right to drive minibuses, and I find the Council's answer insulting to the Norwegian deaf environment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1729	There's nothing that could fall into the council less than insulting anyone, and not at all the deaf. I have shown why the State Health Authority has made this legislation, why they relate to it, the traffic safety arguments used, and not least that passenger traffic safety is essential. However, I agree with the representative Simonsen that so many disturbing elements have now been given in car traffic that something has to be done about it. That is why there is an odelstungsproposition to this effect for consideration in the Committee on Transport. If the cancellation is fairly rapid, we will be able to implement these rules from New Year's onwards, taking into account what disturbs traffic in that area as well. Otherwise, I refer to the letter that was sent from me to the Norwegian Federation of Deaf as late as 8 October this year, with the deepening of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1744	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «When the family was to receive their son who died in a train accident in England for some time, it had to be kept in memory at the parking lot on Gardermoen. It was then discovered that it lacks its own room for the relatives, who in deep sorrow must accept their loved ones in the coffin on the Gardermoen. It should be possible to find a suitable room where the relatives can have a memory session and be with each other. Will the Council of State ensure that this is done as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1753	I can inform you that Oslo Airport Gardermoen, as the first Norwegian airport, has its own airport priest, and that there is a separate ‘silent room’ in the passenger terminal. However, no special space is provided for the provision of memory hours in any of the four terminals at the aerodrome. The aerodrome operator has assessed the need for this type of memory time to be limited. The Swedish Aviation Agency informs that international rules restrict the extent to which memory hours can be held at aerodromes. Nevertheless, airport management and transport companies have now started work on finding a suitable place to hold a memory session whenever desired.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1762	I would like to thank you for the answer, which is positive in relation to the further work of sorrow. In fact, there are over 200 coffins that are accepted on the Gardermo, and that would mean that we have to give the relatives this opportunity. It does not help either with a pastor’s office or with a ‘silent room’ if there is no possibility of holding a memorial. I am therefore pleased that something is now being done about this matter, so that we can be saved for unworthy circumstances.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1770	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Unregistered cars set up at an indefinite time at street level for various reasons are a major problem in Oslo. It's particularly bad after snowfall. The traffic chain in the municipality of Oslo can do little because of lack of legal support. There are doubts about which department is responsible. Will the Council of State take action to help municipalities that are struggling with such problems?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1779	The problem has been addressed in the past. in question No. 88 and 290 for a written reply in 1998, and I refer to the explanation that was then given for the current legislation. As a starting point, it is not illegal to have an unregistered vehicle parked on public roads, if this does not conflict with signage and marking on the spot. The removal of vehicles may be carried out under both road traffic legislation and the pollution law, with the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Environmental Protection respectively as the responsible authority. However, different purposes behind these laws will also be reflected in different criteria in relation to the removal of vehicles parked on public roads. Under road traffic legislation, in the event of a break of 24 hours, the rule of Section 12 of the regulation on public parking regulation and parking charge can be removed. This rule states that the driver/owner of the vehicle must comply with new parking control signs within 24 hours of such signs being installed. The rule may, for example: used for temporary parking bans associated with snow clearance or street cleaning. Otherwise, removal may be carried out in the event of breach of other provisions of Section 37 of the Road Traffic Act, including inter alia: vehicles hindering traffic or snow-mining or other road-works. The Authority has been entrusted to the police and often to the individual municipalities in relation to removal. The arbitration authority has been assigned to the police. Under the pollution law, removal or removal of motor vehicles which have been left to act as a sham or as a nuisance to the environment could be imposed. The Authority, including providing detailed guidelines and criteria for removal, has been assigned to the municipality. Overall, I believe that the relevant legislation provides sufficient opportunities for cleaning up abandoned vehicles and wrecks. It also allows municipalities to ensure accessibility in relation to snow clearance and other road work. It is up to the municipalities, in liaison with their own car parks and the police, to take advantage of the opportunities provided by road traffic legislation and the pollution law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1794	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I am not satisfied. Now I'm going to take on my coat that I mentioned this with snowburst, because there's kind of just a smaller problem here. It's not primarily snow-breeding that's the main problem, but unregistered vehicles that are a nuisance to people who live, stay and walk in the streets of Oslo. It will also increasingly apply to Bergen and Trondheim – it is a city problem. And the pollution law cannot be applied to the cars we're talking about here, because it includes wrecks, and this is unregistered vehicles that are not wrecks, but for some reason are isolated in the streets. The municipality of Oslo sees this as a problem and that the current legislation is not sufficient today. And I would like the Council of State to take the initiative to get a prescription of the same pattern as the high-deck charge that we can use locally where it is applicable.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1801	Now I'm a little bit in doubt if we're going to go into many details related to this project, for heavy-duty tyres and for road pricing, because here there's a number of measures going on, and shelters that need to be provided. I just have to say that if the Municipality of Oslo feels that they need additional facilities to act, they are welcome to dialogue, and we should be able to find practical solutions to that problem as well. I have to repeat what I said at the end of my main response, that ‘it is up to the municipalities, in interaction with their own parking space and the police, to take advantage of the opportunities provided by road traffic legislation and the pollution law’. Should it turn out to be inadequate, you are cordially welcome to engage in a dialogue with the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1809	I have a question for the Minister for Transport: ‘In the context of the new round of tenders for the Short Track Network, it was entered into the negotiations with Onkøe’s airline ASA by the Ministry of Transport that the direct route from Helgeland to Oslo and the return should be reduced in order to increase the frequency between Helgeland and Trondheim. The directorate of Oslo has been a success of 85 pst. coatings and must be one of the most profitable routes to Return. What is the reason why this profitable route is now planned to be closed, and will the Council of State help to ensure that it does not?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1818	First, I want to take the opportunity to make a little clarification. The Ministry of Transport is not negotiating with the tender operator on the termination of this route. It is stated in the tender specification that there are no so-called FOT requirements for direct flights between Brønnøysund and Oslo, but that this link must be maintained against the commercial offer between Trondheim and Oslo, possibly Bodø and Oslo, as it has also been for the other tram stops between Trondheim and Bodø. When there is no FOT requirement for direct offers from Brønnøysund to Oslo, but the country’s financial efforts are prioritised in order to provide a better offer to Bodø and Trondheim, this means that all operators who wish to do so can establish themselves on a commercial basis with a direct route offer between Brønnøysund and Oslo. The shortcut extension on Brønnøysund also contributes to ensuring that the number of potential operators and aircraft types would ensure a certain level of competition to provide such a route, if it is correct as the Bastesen representative claims, that this is a profitable route. Of course, it is also possible to offer such a route if the company so wishes and the route is economically profitable for the company. The offer on the short-range network will not prevent such a solution. But the state has not wanted to spend public money on this route offer. If the direct route between Helgeland and Oslo is closed, there is a decision against the State and not against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1827	I thank the Council of State for the answer. For people in Helgeland, and especially in Brønnøysund, after the large investments made at Brønnøysund Airport, it would seem a bit strange that the offer is now being stepped down. And there is no doubt that the department was leading the negotiations that the route that was to be laid down towards an increase in the frequency of Trondheim. It probably depends on Statoil's need for flights from the helicopter base and down to Trøndelag. But they've solved their needs on private aircraft. Is it perhaps rather the idea of SAS' profitability on the route between Trondheim and Oslo that is why the tender documents were designed as they were? Otherwise, I would like a clarification of what the Council of State meant by ‘FOT requirements’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1836	To date, it is clear – there have been many discussions in this room – that it is understood that the requirements for the routes where the State buys services from the airlines. That means routes where for commercial reasons it does not fly routes, but where the public believes it should be routes. With regard to the link between Brønnøysund and Oslo, for the previous round of tenders due to the Fornebus situation in the tender material, there was a choice situation in which routes between Helgeland and Værnes and Helgeland and Oslo could be structured and the operators then structured the route offer. Since Gardermoen has enough capacity and slot time for everyone, it is not natural to use the same choice. In the case of the Brønnøysund offer, which is a separate route area, there were several operators. Not least because the track is extended, it is clear that there is also a greater interest in other airlines flying on this route, and I therefore do not overlook the fact that the direct route between Brønnøysund and Oslo can be interesting to other companies.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1846	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Social Affairs the following questions: ‘According to information from the Arendal police, there are about 300 users of harder drugs in the police district. These are very high numbers. This is much higher than the national average in relation to the population. The drug problem now seems to have hit this region very hard. In this context, does the Council of State consider it necessary to look at the problem of drugs in East Agder and to take action to help stop this dramatic drug development in Arendal?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1855	The development of drug problems in our country over the past few years is the general characteristic of increased illegal drug introduction and translation and of the geographical spread of the abuse to the whole country. There is a clear link between early onsets of alcohol, with a consequent risk of harm, and drug testing. I'm particularly serious about the situation, and I've also labeled it in Arendal. I want to use the opportunity to tell you that I was in Arendal this weekend. There I visit, among other things. T5, an intervention for the heaviest drug users. I also visit East-Agder clinics. A number of measures are needed if we are to close in reverse development. Customs and police efforts are important to slow down illicit drug supply. Schools have a major challenge in getting students to know well about drugs and to be able to choose healthy alternatives to drug use. The social and health services in the municipalities and municipalities are responsible for providing assistance and treatment for those who still experience abuse. Let me also underline how crucial it is to prevent new recruitment to drug abuse that parents, voluntary organizations, schools and the community are united on the safe, inclusive growth environment. Over the last two years, the government has strengthened both the prevention of drug use and treatment and after-care measures. Action plan for reducing the use of drugs and action plan for strengthening the first line of social services both have as important objectives to stimulate local authorities to increase their efforts in this area. A manual on prevention and a guide to municipal drug policy plans was sent to the municipalities in the fall. In addition, some of the larger urban municipalities have a specific source of support for the heaviest drug users. Since 1997, the municipality of Arendal has included these and in 1998 and 1999 has received NOK 600 000 per person. year to T5 day and activity centre. During the meeting at T5 this weekend I was informed about the project at the centre, which I have visited once before. I got to see a well-developed, locally anchored model, which seems to be successful. The T5 has entered – with their own use of words – ‘allies’ with the police, a number of voluntary organisations, e.g. Rotary, Lions, Frimurarlosjen, the business community in Arendal and various church communities. For the next year, I got a hearing, there'll be further bets, this time in the school too. In T5’s ‘project 2000’, cooperation was further developed, and I believe that this is the way to go. Awareness raising of school students, teachers and not least parents in relation to the use of drugs means that there is a focus on monitoring and further efforts where problems seem to be most precarious. In the prevention work, the government has pointed out that local involvement is important, and the T5 has probably shown us a possible model in the further fight against drug abuse. I intend to further support this measure. East-Agder is now also covered by the offer of medically assisted rehabilitation. The county council has been given a commitment of 900000 kroner this year for the operation of its supply. At the meeting at the Aust-Agder clinic on Monday, I was informed about the services offered by the clinic. I met a single person who had a new hope of a better everyday life. I am left with an impression of a differentiated and organised drug supply targeting the individual drug addict. The government will continue to work for the reduction of drug use and for the better provision of help to addicts. As indicated in the 2000 Social and Health Ministry budget proposal, we are proposing a strengthening of 33.4 million. In addition to an increase of 52 million in 1999 in drug use. kr. Noise field is an important bet area!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1872	I thank the Council of State for a good and good answer, but I nevertheless demand even more action. Despite the total ban and criminalisation of all types of drugs, the use of such drugs is now exploding throughout the country. And the conditions that have been revealed in Arendal lately are most alarming. The tendency is that more and more young people are getting a relationship with drugs, while the measures that are needed to help people out of this again are out of proportion to the dramatic developments we are now witnessing. Doing preventive work is not enough. Societies now need to recognise that we need to be willing to use far more resources at work to increase both the breadth and capacity of treatment provision to help those who have come up with drug problems and help them out of this. I therefore ask the Council of State to be willing to pay particular attention to the situation in Arendal, and ask her to be willing to come back with any help to improve on the unfortunate conditions that are now developing rapidly in this otherwise idyllic southern village.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1881	I'm going to follow closely the situation in Arendal. We have a review of the prevention work to see how we can strengthen the local level even more. This is where prevention can take place, with cross-cutting and multidisciplinary cooperation, and with organisations osb. in place. And there's Arendal inside a good track. In terms of treatment, in the drug field as a whole, over a five-year period, it has been a doubling of the funds used by municipalities, county councils, and governments, ranging from 700 million. NOK 1.6 billion. Let me underline: Research shows a clear connection between alcohol and drugs. And it's a context when it comes to clear boundaries of alcohol policy. I appeal to cross-political negotiators to set certain limits there – and not least the Progress Party can also contribute!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1893	‘According to World Gang announcements on November 4, 1999, the superior Øivind Rø at the Modum Bads Nervesanatorium believes that there is no treatment for the most ill bulimics in Norway. What action will the Council of State take to remedy this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1900	I agree that there is a lack of treatment for people suffering from severe bulimia in Norway. I replied to an interpellation on 5 November last year where I indicated that there is a need to strengthen the offer to this group. The Government’s Roadmap for Mental Health 1999-2006 provides for a comprehensive strengthening of mental health protection, which will also provide for a strengthening of measures for people with eating disorders. In addition to the escalation plan, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is working on its own strategy plan to strengthen the provision of this group. The plan shall also contain measures aimed at reducing the incidence of eating problems. National health surveillance has developed proposals for a number of measures to strengthen the provision of services to people with eating disorders. Competence in this area should be strengthened within all levels of health care and among others in contact with children and young people, for example. teachers. Based on the general competence, all psychiatric institutions and outpatient clinics can provide treatment to those with eating disorders. However, there is a need for both empowerment and some specialisation in this area. However, few counties or regions have organised the service in more specialised units that can transfer competence to other health services. In relation to the treatment of people suffering from severe eating disorders, there is a need to build up more specialised competences in the direction of county authorities and regions. All counties have been asked in a circular on the Roadmap to Mental Health to explain the offer to people suffering from eating disorders in their plans for mental health protection. The deadline for the submission of the plans to be made is 1 January 2000. The county councils are asked to explain how the work is organised and how the offers are to be built up. In a circular, the Ministry points out that it is particularly challenging to cooperate between somatic and psychiatric departments and between paediatric and juvenile psychiatric departments and adult psychiatric departments. There is a lack of competence in the causes and treatment of eating disorders, and there are shortcomings in the organisation of the services. The escalation plan highlights the need for research into children and young people and eating disorders as a priority area. Centres for Child and Youth Psychiatry in Oslo have been given the means to implement training in the building of competences on eating disorders by health professionals in health regions 1 and 2. In the context of the work on the strategy plan, it is assessed to extend this training provision. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, in cooperation with the National Educational Centre, has developed a new educational and guidance material on the prevention of eating disorders. The material is distributed to all primary and secondary schools of the country as well as to all health stations of the country. In addition, funds have been allocated to different model trials to help build up competences in the organisation of services to be disseminated to other parts of the country. As an example of the treatment of people suffering from severe eating disorders, including bulimia, I would like to mention that Haukeland Hospital has received NOK 600 000 for an action based on a model of cooperation between somatic and psychiatric departments. For the treatment of people suffering from severe bulimia, it is particularly important that there is cooperation between these different departments. It is planned to provide the hospital with a county-wide special function for the treatment of people with severe eating disorders. An action in the escalation plan will be linked to building up such special competencies in each health region. In that case, an existing competence must be taken into account, and it must be further developed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1920	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. The interpellation debate held in Stortinget on 5 November last showed that there was a broad majority on the Stortinget that takes this seriously. And the action plan that the Council of State in its reply now said the Department is working on, warned the Council of State would come when this debate was a year ago. Some measures have also been proposed in the State budget, to which the Council of State referred, but it is still the case that we do not have an offer for those who are the hardest hit. My question is, When does the Council of State intend to present the action plan that he announced last November?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1929	The size of the population has adopted the Roadmap for mental health, where this group is particularly focused. The size has given its support to increased appropriations, and there will be years to come in the annual budgets. We require the county councils to ensure in their plans and in the use of these funds that offers to those with eating disorders are extended. The deadline for the county councils to deliver their plans is 1 January 2000. We have a work on the part of the Department, based on the Health Inspectorate's recommendations for a strategy. I expect that we can define that strategy early in the New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1937	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The heart centre of Oslo, which must move from the old Rikshospitalet, shall rent premises in the Revmatism Hospital. The Council of State will contribute to the refund of 37,5 p.m. to the Heart Centre in Oslo. of the costs of conversion?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1946	The heart centre is an important part of the health care provision for heart patients in Norway. The Centre began its activities in 1989 and is organised as a foundation on the basis of an agreement between Akershu County and the State. At the request of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the State Health Authority has obtained opinions from the regional hospital of the country on the need for cardiac surgery of the type performed by the Heart Centre. The study shows that there will still be a need for a supplement to the heart surgery of the regional hospitals, essential in the health regions east and south. However, the heart centre is not at any public health level. Therefore, on the basis of the current regulation on reimbursement of approved capital expenditure, based on Section 10 of the Hospital Act, there is normally no basis for reimbursement of the capital expenditure of the Heart Centre. However, there is no doubt that the Heart Centre has an important role to play in relation to the provision of public health services. The ongoing debate on hospital affiliations is also a matter that makes the matter special. Therefore, the Ministry will assess the application in the light of these circumstances.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1955	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, with which I am very pleased. I interpret the answers of the Council of State so that the Heart Centre in Oslo will be refunded 37,5 p.m. of the costs of conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1962	It is always a pleasure when representatives are very satisfied with the answer they get. And I also thank you for a very kind interpretation of the answer. I will work on this matter based on the positive intention that I expressed in my main response. Let me just make it clear, for the sake of order, that the procedure does not take place here, and that the procedure, if one is to grant such a repayment of capital, actually requires a change of rules, so that it also has to be assessed. But in the light of what I said, we're going to evaluate this in a constructive way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1972	I have the following questions for our Minister of Health: ‘In the two emergency hospitals in Fredrikstad and Moss at the Eastfold Hospital, those who are hospitalised as immediate help patients are at risk of having to wait more than 24 hours for surgery. Older people wait over 24 hours for appendicitis and with used femoral necks. What can the Council of State contribute to, so that immediate help becomes a real guarantee of treatment?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1981	I agree with the representative Hedstrøm that it is unacceptable that older people have to wait over 24 hours for immediate help operations. Here the legislation is ready. Both under the current hospital law and the new patient rights law and the law on specialist healthcare adopted by the Stortinget, patients’ right to immediate help is indisputable. Responsibility is clearly defined: it is the county that has an obligation to organise the hospital service so that the obligation to provide immediate assistance is respected. In this specific case, the responsibility of the County Council of Eastfold is to ensure and monitor that the Hospital Østfold provides the necessary treatment within an acceptable period of time, for those patients who have been professionally assessed to require immediate help treatment. With regard to the treatment of individual patients and any mistakes that may have been made, it is the county doctor who is required by the law to follow up these kinds of cases. I'm familiar with the fact that the county doctor already has these matters for consideration. Eastfold County has also taken up the situation. In the near future, the hospital management will report to the political bodies of the county council on the actual conditions surrounding these specific matters. Furthermore, the county council will address this matter in connection with its governance dialogue with the hospital Østfold. The county council and the hospital have started work on defining quality indicators to be included in the ongoing hospital reporting. The aim is to identify deviations from what has been accepted medical practice, so that the necessary steps can be taken quickly to prevent recurrence. Immediate help is not a completely unambiguous concept. It is used both for conditions requiring immediate treatment and for conditions that must prevail over normal priorities. The urgency and the circumstances of hospitalisation have been left to the medical judgement of the individual physician, within the framework of sound medical practice. Major variations have been documented, including: in hospital hospitalisation practices and waiting times for surgical intervention for patients admitted as immediate help patients. The new law on specialist health services makes it clear that the county council has a duty to organise emergency preparedness to meet the immediate needs of the population. All hospitals are obliged to receive patients in need of immediate assistance for life-saving and/or stabilising treatment. However, it has not been given that all hospitals should have a comprehensive emergency response to complete all patients. It is therefore assumed in the new law that patients should be selected in the sense that, if appropriate, they should be sent directly to the hospital with emergency preparedness within the subject area. Proper emergency preparedness depends on the organisation of all stages of the emergency medical chain. The Ministry is now working on a major communication on the emergency medical chain and the professional requirements that need to be imposed in order to provide the population with an adequate emergency medical response. This message will provide the Storting with a broad review of this important field.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e1996	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased that he was so clear when it came to defining immediate help – it was very clear what is the county council's responsibility here. It has been problematic in Eastfold. There have been a number of examples where especially older people have had to wait a very long time. I am a little upset when the assistant hospital director at the Hospital Eastfold says that this is not an economic problem for them, but it is an organisational problem. I'm not a health care professional who's been working in the hospital. But if there is an organisational problem, this hospital must learn from other hospitals and do it relatively quickly, so that sick people must not suffer the way they have done in Fredrikstad and Moss. We also know that it is very difficult for the relatives in such a situation to get information out, even if we have a patient representative who does his best to inform patients and relatives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2008	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Norwegian snuff boxes contain a warning from the Ministry of Social and Health that snuffing is a carcinogen and seriously harmful to health. Report No. 11 from 1997 shows that there is no safe link between sneezing and cancer, and in Sweden it is appropriate to remove the warning. Effective public health work depends on scientifically sound information provided by the authorities. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the Ministry provides correct information on snuffing?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2017	A number of international studies have shown that snuff use increases the risk of cancer. Snus is a safe carcinogen of the World Health Organisation (WHO) and there is a report from the U.S. Health Director indicating that snus is a carcinogen. These clear recommendations are based on a wide range of studies. Report No. 11 from 1997 concludes that the health risk of snooping is probably lower than that of smoking, but it is evident that no tobacco use is at all preferable to snooping. The production of snuff means the formation of very strong carcinogens, nitrosamines, in the products. Compared to food that we know contains nitrosamines, such as bacon and smoked ham, snuffs 1,000 times more of these carcinogens. I am particularly concerned that all health information and health hazard labelling should be based on safe scientific grounds, and the State Tobacco Injury Council closely follows up new research results internationally, including in the case of snuffing. Norwegian health authorities focus on the international consensus on characterising snuff as a carcinogen, in particular the international cancer research institute’s snuff monograph, and the report of the US Health Director. Thus, there is no basis for changing the position of the scientific consensus existing in this field, established on the basis of a wide range of scientifically sound and final studies. The department provides correct information about spins.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2028	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I am somewhat surprised that he overlooks the results of research in Sweden in this area. The Swedish Social Minister, Lars Engqvist, has stated in the Riksdag that he is prepared to omit the label ‘causes cancer’. Professor Tonny Axel of the Odontological Faculty of the University of Oslo is quite clear in his conclusions: «In large-sparkling Sweden, oral cancer is a relatively rare disease compared to many other countries where no snus is used at all.» I am concerned that effective public health work depends on scientifically sustainable information. Half an hour ago, I received a message from Strasbourg that the European Commission is proposing that in future warnings on snuff boxes should contain the following text: May damage your health. This is done by the Commission, as there is no longer any reliable evidence of snuffing increases the risk of oral cancer. Will the Government follow up this Directive, or is this case of such importance that the Government will override this Directive?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2040	Of course, in assessing what is the research front in this area, no studies can be ignored. But you can't let a couple of individual studies that show no safe relationship undermine a global medical consensus on such a relationship. Of course, we have to keep up to date. But I have to say that I have far more reason to build on the World Health Organization's recommendations on this issue than a few single studies from Sweden. I also have to remind the representative that in the EU there are actually no sales bans for snuffs. Sweden is a different country in terms of snuffing and has been exempted from the ban on sales due to its high consumption and production.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2050	My question to the Minister for Health is as follows: ‘There are major differences and large queues in childhood and youth psychiatry. The current 3-month treatment guarantee does not guarantee children and young people the right to help when they need it. This was documented, inter alia, in the World Gang on 2 November 1999. According to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, children have Article No. 24 – Health, right to health care. Will the State Council consider a stricter guarantee of treatment for children and young people in need of psychiatric health care?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2059	The starting point for this issue is the high unmet need for the treatment of children and young people with mental illness. The Government's mental health escalation plan assumes that 5 pst. in children and adolescents under 18 years of age require an offer from paediatric psychiatry. Today the coverage is approx. 2.1 pst. We have committed to a significant expansion of this part of the Psychiatric Specialist Health Service. The main challenge is to be able to recruit and train sufficient personnel with the necessary professional skills and to ensure a geographical allocation of personnel resources as needed. Children are covered by the rules on waiting time guarantee in line with adults. Where the conditions for the treatment guarantee have been met, children shall have the right to be offered an investigation and any treatment within three months of receipt of a referral. The Ministry is now working on a proposal for a regulation on the content of the right to necessary health care, which, like the current treatment guarantee, will be based on the recommendations of the Wage Committee. My attitude is that you should be careful about operating with different waiting rules for different patients, whether the distinction is between diagnosis or age. After all, we have had more questions about age limits up in the Storting in recent times, which update this in the other end of life. The priority must, in my opinion, be based on medical judgement based on the severity of the condition. In the context of the treatment of the Patient Rights Act, I assume that the severity of the condition should be a factor of significant importance in the prioritisation. One of the conditions for obtaining a treatment guarantee today is that there is good evidence that life expectancy and quality of life prospects can significantly deteriorate without treatment. It is a medical question of whether this condition is met. In my opinion, when children and young people need psychiatric health care, this will mean that the condition needs to be characterised as serious and must therefore be prioritised. A lack of medical care for a child can contribute to a reduction in the quality of life and development of the child where this would not have similar consequences for adults. This would therefore have an impact on the assessment of compliance with the criteria and on the adequacy of the waiting time in the individual case. Technical cooperation has been established between the Ministry of Health and the Norwegian Medical Association on the operationalisation of the criteria for the granting of guarantees. The Ministry will request that children's special circumstances be placed on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2072	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. It is clear from the answer that the Minister of Health is very concerned about this serious problem, and I am pleased about that. But we also have another problem with child and youth psychiatry, and it's all the children that are not being evaluated. A look-up in the Evening Post on 11 November shows that very many children under public care, children’s protection clients, are not even assessed for health care. The evaluation of these children is a prerequisite for them to receive treatment. This discrimination between children under public care and children who are under their own parents’ care provides a worrying development for those who are the weakest and most in need of community support and assistance and health care in this area. Does this concern the Minister of Health, and will he do anything about this on the basis of the documented difference?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2079	The answer to both questions is yes. To complement this, I would like to say the following: The documented under-capacity in the provision of treatment for children and young people is some of the reasons why we in the Department are very careful to follow up the demands that children and young people’s needs should be met in the municipal plans of early intervention, early intervention and prevention, as well as in the county plans that focus on the provision of treatment in institutions. On the issue of the relationship between child protection and child and youth psychiatry, there is a question that concerns both the Minister for Child and Family Affairs and me in relation to the issues involved in coordination and cooperation. But first and foremost, this is a matter of expanding capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2089	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Today it has approx. 100 000 people in Norway eating disorders. There's reason to believe that the numbers of darkness around these disorders are very high. In Tromsø, the country's only centre of competence for eating disorders is now being laid down. The Regional Health and Social Committee does not have any more resources to allocate to the Centre. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to reduce an already marginal offer to this group at the same time as the needs increase?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2098	I have become aware through the press that the Regional Health and Social Committee of the North Health Region has decided to cut the appropriations for the operation of the NordNorwegian Competence Centre for Eating Disorders in Troms, and that the Regional Hospital Board of Tromsø on 1 October 1999 decided to shut down the operation of the Centre from 1 January 2000. I have stated that I find this alarming and contrary to the leadership given by the Stortinget and by the Government. In a circular to the County Councils on the Roadmap for Mental Health 1999-2006, the Ministry pointed out that increasing competence in the treatment of eating disorders is an important area because of the lack of competence at present. The county councils were asked to explain the offer to people suffering from eating disorders. All health regions shall submit regional health plans to the Ministry by 1 January 2001. The provision and measures for people with eating disorders shall be included in these plans. In addition, the Ministry has seen it necessary to take the case of the closure of the centre of competence in Tromsø in a separate letter to the county municipalities of Nordland, Troms and Finnmark. In their plans for mental health protection, the municipalities are asked to explain the plans for improving the skills and improving treatment provision of people with eating disorders. As I mentioned in my reply to Mr Konglevoll earlier today, one of the measures in the strategy plan to improve the supply of people with eating disorders will be linked to building special skills in each health region. Regional competence plans shall be incorporated into the regional health plans. Competence must be developed where competence already exists. The North Health Region is the only one that has currently established a regional competence centre in this area. Psychiatric health protection capacity is per year. Today too bad. As a result, few units have now been able to function as units of competence. The different environments have had enough to accommodate patients from their own field of exposure. It is therefore important that already built-in environments of competence are not lost.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2113	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am very pleased that the Council of State is strongly responding to this decision. The centre has been in operation for three years now, and over these three years, a great deal has been going on from patients, relatives and health professionals. We know that today there is an alarming need for treatment facilities for those who suffer from eating disorders, which the Council of State has also discussed earlier today. Unfortunately, there are too many examples of life-threatening patients being rejected — and simply refused help — because our healthcare system does not have the capacity or will not treat these patients. Basically, all outpatients should be able to treat patients with these disorders, but we know that the situation is actually quite different. I believe that the situation for these patients is so serious that the Council of State must intervene and take immediate action. I respect that he will await what the county councils are going to do, but I think the situation is precarious, and we know today enough that we have to – [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2122	Talida's out!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2125	In this case, the representative Bekkelem Orheim and I fully share both the analysis and the assessment of the specific matter and the commitment. We have adopted a plan, we have granted money, we have called for this point in the County and Health Regional Plans. We follow this up, and we give money to follow up. Then there is a very bad excuse on the part of the county council not to do what we expect. The fact that it does the exact opposite, we're going to persecute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2135	I have the following questions for the Minister of Oil and Energy: «In the treatment of St.meld. No 58 [[1996-97]] What has the Council of State done to disseminate this information?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2144	A significant amount of information and training work in the field of energy use is subsequently carried out. This concerns the dissemination of general information, but also information on new renewable energy sources, and heat pumps in particular. The NVE is responsible for initiating and monitoring the information and training activities of the authorities. Today, the NVE uses an external operator, OFE – the Energy and Environment Information Office – to develop information materials, courses, etc. in the various fields. It also applies to the use of heat pumps. Per. the current date offers the OFE three courses on this theme, in particular targeting professional actors and operational staff. The OFE has also started a course in continuing training linked to NTNU in Trondheim. One also aims to further develop the information material that currently exists for homeowners on residential heating and the use of heat pumps. In a short time, new and comprehensive information material will be provided intended for interested users and relevant heat pump providers, i.e. plumbers and others providing services related to the installation and servicing of this type of energy technology. In addition, we will refer to the use of heat pumps as a current technology in all information material that goes on water-borne heat. The regionalenhancement centres are an important distribution channel for the information material of the NVE. In addition, specific information on energy use and solutions is also disseminated through the NVE network for the building sector. A special focus in the future will, as I said, be on the professional players in the heat pump market, on operational personnel and also in relation to municipalities and municipal planning.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2157	I thank you for the answer, which I do not think is good enough. I have to say that I get a little warm when I hear that marketing at the level that we hear here is used to promote one of the finest energy carriers we have. We have the lying right outside the window, we have it in air, water, soil and mountains. I expect, because we now have a lot of resources to do something real here, and because it's such an important area we're talking about, a completely different commitment to this than what we've seen now, and this has to be directed at all parts of our society that can use that energy. Can the Council of State agree that we invite three-four marketing agencies to develop an idea with strategy and media choices to get targeted marketing of heat pumps?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2164	I have to accept that the representative is not satisfied with the information planning that a person wants to develop. I said in my reply that the information work will be stepped up. However, I also believe that the information work on heat pumps needs to be seen in a certain context with other new renewable energy sources, because heat pumps are often intended to be used in combination with e.g. bioenergy, and because a local set of options and solutions could relate to new renewable energy sources. In some places, there will be heat pumps that are most topical, elsewhere bioenergy. State information and support schemes should also be designed to maximise the capture of new renewable energy sources — wind, bioenergy or heat pumps. We want to focus on both the professional market, operational personnel and municipal planning. There are three key actors, I think, and so far we intend to do it through the channels that the authorities have used so far.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2173	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Development: ‘The vast majority of wars and armed conflicts today are inter-wars, where different groups of the population of a state are fighting each other. Children make up almost half of the population in these war zones. Peace processes and agreements reflect little the needs of children. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the future needs of children are better addressed in peace processes and agreements?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2182	First, I would like to thank the representative for raising a very important issue. The situation of children in war and conflict situations is a high priority in Norway’s international work to promote children’s rights. We work for increased protection of children, among others. through our humanitarian assistance to the UN system and to non-governmental organisations. But we also focus on this in our participation in the United Nations governing bodies and in other United Nations forums. Our follow-up to work on this within the UN system is important because the organizations are always heavily represented in the war zones, with presence in the countries before, during and after the conflicts. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees and UNICEF is very central in this context. The so-called Graca Machel report on children and armed conflict of 1996 has laid the foundation for too much of the UN's work in this area. The report itself was a sort of breakthrough in this field. Among other things, it emerged in the establishment of a special representative position for children and armed conflict in the United Nations, directly under the auspices of the Secretary-General. I have had several meetings with Olara Otunnu, who today fill this position. We support his work financially and otherwise seek to cooperate with him where this is natural, for example. in the case of Sudan. The Special Representative shall have, inter alia: continued contact with representatives of the opposing parties and seek to establish trusting projects among the parties, in particular with regard to the demobilisation of child soldiers. The agreement on the demobilisation of child soldiers may also form the basis for a stronger focus on children’s rights at the end of peace, if any. The Special Representative has twice initiated a dialogue on the protection of children in the context of the Security Council. In this context, Norway has also called for the importance of focusing on the protection of children in peace processes and agreements. This exposure has, among other things: led to the mandate for the peacekeeping operation in Sierra Leone, drawn up by the Security Council in 1998, stressing the special need for protection of children. Norway, together with other countries, will work to ensure that civil protection in the armed conflict is an integral part of the work of the Security Council in the future. Of course, child protection will be central here. Norway is actively participating in the ongoing process of adopting a Protocol to the Children’s Convention on Armed Conflicts. One of the main objectives of this work is to achieve an 18-year limit on recruitment and participation in armed forces. The use of children in war is one of the worst abuses of children's rights you can imagine. Success in this area is therefore very important in ensuring the rights of children, not only in conflicts, but also in relation to peace-building.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2201	I would like to thank you for a very positive answer. In working with children and children's growing-up conditions in Oslo over several years, I have both met and heard about children from the new war zones with a lot of internal conflicts and seen the trauma they are going through – orphaned children who have seen the house and the community going up in smoke, who have seen the neighboring boy become an enemy and a hate object overnight, and who have also been child soldiers. I'm especially pleased that the Council of State mentions exactly that with child soldiers, which I think is perhaps the worst thing here. I think it is important for the Government to emphasise the protection of children through our humanitarian aid, which is, of course, increasing greatly due to the change in the conflicts. The Norwegian commitment to the protection of children, as part of the peace agreements, is also important. Finally, I would like to ask the Council of State about exactly this with child soldiers – how it is now working on both peace agreements and other international agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2210	Now, when we're about to reach a decade mark on the Children's Convention, we would have thought we'd come further. And not least in the area of child soldiers. Unfortunately, these additional protocol negotiations are under way for a relatively long time, and there is considerable disagreement between a number of countries about the 18-year limit. From the Norwegian side, we have now assessed it so that we need to put in a larger ‘trafficking’ and see if we can achieve greater cooperation with like-minded countries in this area, in order to increase the momentum in the negotiations. With regard to concrete conflicts, it is then possible, even if there is no agreement on an additional protocol, to establish their own agreements with parties in a conflict over the demobilisation of child soldiers. I can mention that as far as our role in the peace process in Sudan is concerned, this is a question I have raised with both parties, where, in the first place, we have been openly positive about reaching such agreements. We will continue to work on that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2247	These questions have been postponed until the next question time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2253	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: «The market is currently struggling with poor economy and low wages due to the maximum price scheme. In comparison, tariffs for public transport have increased by a total of 36,5 p.p., while for taxi industry the increase is 18,8 p.p. for the period 1990 to June 1998. Does the Council consider that the maximum price scheme should now be abolished?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2262	As the representative of Nistad knows, yesterday I informed the Competition Authority that the maximum price regulation of taxi tariffs can be lifted in areas where there is sufficient competition. In practice, it will be in central areas where there are two or more competing taxi centres. In addition to these areas, the maximum price regulation will be maintained. Competition supervision has been asked to implement the decision as soon as possible. In areas where maximum price regulation is lifted, taxi centres will be exempted from the prohibition of price cooperation by the Competition Act to set prices for taxis linked to the centre. Dispensation is provided, inter alia: provided that the individual taxi can take lower prices than the central bank has fixed and that the centres provide good price information to the public. Competition supervision will actively and separately monitor prices and price changes in industry. Oversight may, in the event of slippage, reintroduce price regulation in areas with excessive price increases. Competition supervision, which is responsible for the implementation of the maximum price regulation, proposed to abolish it for the whole country. The price and competition tariffs have been regulated by the price and competition authorities since 1940. The regulation includes, inter alia: justified by the fact that access to the industry is restricted by a licensing arrangement, so that the taxis have had exclusive rights to such a type of passenger service. Competition in industry has thus been very limited until recently. However, some of the practices of the transport authorities in granting authorisations have been transferred to more than one central authority in several areas. Furthermore, there is also open access for coaches to transport fewer than five persons. These changes have led to a competitive situation in areas with two or more taxi centres which means that, in my view, the maximum price regulation can be lifted here. In addition, it has been decided that experience in the areas where maximum price regulation has been lifted shall be assessed after one year. Where, as a result of the requested authorisation, there is no more than one taxi centre, the taxis will continue to be subject to maximum price regulation. However, competition surveillance has been asked to improve the model used in fixing the maximum prices. Supervision will thus try to address some of the regulatory problems, such as rigid pricing systems, uncertainty as to how to obtain basic material, etc. However, the Government has also decided that the Ministry of Transport will investigate in detail whether the test of the needs of taxis should be terminated.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2275	I thank you for the answer, which I have read in part in the evening post today, and I have to praise the Council of State for the quick handling of the question that I put in. So there's going to be a partial abolition of the maximum price scheme, and it's going to be evaluated in one year. This includes the consequences for municipalities, county councils and the public interest – which is a very large user of the taxi industry – are to be looked at. But what is the purpose of only a partial abolition of the maximum price system – and at the same time an evaluation of this scheme in one year’s time – when both the population and county authorities can already obtain offers from different central banks within their state? Most of the counties already have their counties as one privilege district, and the government can buy their taxi services on credit, not cash. This is an offer to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2282	In fact, the rapid procedure that it may seem to have been in this case is not due to the representative Nistad's question, we had had a procedure before that. But the question came at a favourable time. It's good to be able to stand here and respond positively to such an important question. The reason why we haven't abolished the entire maximum price scheme is that as long as we have a permit scheme, it's so that most of the places in the country will still have only one permit, that is. a central one. Then we won't have a real competition. That's why we wanted to maintain the maximum price. We're going to evaluate after one year. We are also very concerned about price developments in those places where we are repealing the maximum price regime – in the case of public and public works, for example. This is the reason for the evaluation. We'll look at price developments before we make a final decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2289	Before we move on, we will deal with question 24, from the representative Inge Wohnning to the Minister of Church, Education and Research. The question will be answered by the Minister for Employment and Administrative Affairs as appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2295	My question to the two government councils is as follows: ‘A Muslim attending an AMO course has been denied free one hour every Friday. This means that he does not have the opportunity to participate in the Friday prayer in the mosque. How does the Council of State assess the refusal of labour market authorities in the light of the principle of the individual’s right to religious practice?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2304	The individual’s right to religious practice is a principle that must be respected. Thus, the law of trudom communities and the general public gives persons who are not members of the Norwegian Church the right to freedom from work, schooling, duty and the like for up to two days each year in connection with religious celebrations according to their religion. If one were to introduce the right to freedom one hour every week, it would be an extension in relation to that law giving the right to. It would be a burden on the employer and could make it more difficult for the individual to get a job. The aim of the AMO course, and in particular the introduction of foreign language courses, to which reference is made in the case in question, is to give people with a migrant background the introduction, competence and knowledge to get into work. This includes, inter alia: learning and dealing with the rules of Norwegian working life. It is important, then, that the same rules that apply in the workplace also apply to AMO courses. The law of the labour market is in line with the rules in force in Norwegian schools and working life, and the rejection is granted on this basis. My assessment is that the labour market sentence does not violate the principle of the individual’s right to religious practice in this matter. In addition, the practice is well adapted to the fact that the whole purpose of an AMO training is to help provide the unemployed with an entrance to normal working life.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2315	When I have referred to the principle of the individual's right to religious practice in this question, it does not refer to the law of threat societies. It refers to the Basic Law Section 2, which establishes this principle. We have long argued for this in Norway; for example, before introducing the five-day week, Jewish children and children belonging to the Adventist community, without further freedom from school on Saturdays. The prerequisite for this is, of course, that the individual himself is responsible for getting what is missing. That's the way it's going to be in the world of work. Of course, if a worker is asking for freedom, it must be on the assumption that he is reworking it. I am not able to understand that neither the AMO nor anyone else would have problems showing the flexibility needed to meet this desire.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2320	I would just as well refer to the law of trudoms and ymist others, which was debated in this Chamber in the Stortinget in 1980. We have assumed that the law has, after all, been debated in this room and has been adopted by the Stortinget. I guess all these issues related to working life and school for people with a different cultural background and religion than we have were also taken into account. I have related to it and seen it so that it was not right for me as the Council of State to go in and depart from this. With regard to a look-up in our country today, I would like to point out to a Muslim leader, Sattar Tahir, who is president of the Islamic Cultural Centre in Oslo, who has said: "We must give priority to work first. It is we, as Muslims, who must find sensible solutions.’ That means that representatives of the Muslims can also accept my decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2332	The President will take note of the fact that the scheduled time for the morning meeting is near, and will propose that the morning meeting be extended until we finish today's map. - It's passed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2338	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: «According to the World Gang on 8 November 1999, the state continues to stand on the demand that it be built approx. 1 000 more dwellings and 5 000 more jobs are created in Fornebu than has been decided by the municipality of Bærum. According to the newspaper, a compromise with the municipality of Bærum is rejected as completely out of date. Is the Council of State prepared to sacrifice local self-government in order to achieve national targets for housing and jobs?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2347	State Building's objection to Bærum municipality level 2 for Fornebu has several reasons, and in my reply to the representative, Sanner, I would like to refer to the most important ones. Let me first say that I have full confidence in the professional judgements of Statsbyggen in this matter, and that I mainly share that view expressed by the opposition to Municipal Council level 2 and in the mediation of the County Council in Akershus. There is reason to recall that the objection is in line with the views of the current and former governments on the post-use of Fornebu. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the national policy guidelines for the main airport at Gardermoen and for coordinated land and transport planning both highlight the importance of sustainable development through the optimal exploitation of the construction sites at Fornebu. State buildings have seen it as necessary to have a framework figure of 20 000 jobs. This takes into account the decision of the Stortingen on national IT and knowledge centres, as well as the number of jobs that Telenor and local services will represent. A framework of 20 000 jobs will also make an important contribution to a good traffic base for environmental collective service in the Fornebu area. State buildings consider, on a professional basis, that the number of dwellings should be at least 6000 and that fornebu as an extension area has good environmental potential for even higher housing levels. Regional housing needs are high, and although the development of Fornebu will not solve this problem, it is important to exploit the opportunities available for housing. Experience has shown that it is easier to facilitate more dwellings in new construction areas than to improve and/or re-regulate other areas. It is true that the municipality of Bærum, in the conciliation between the parties to the county, proposed a compromise solution. In short, Bærum’s proposals meant that the municipality was willing to increase the number of dwellings to 5,500 under very specific conditions and at subsidised prices, against a reduction in the number of jobs to 14 000. The marginal increase in the number of dwellings gives a result that is too far from the country’s starting point that State buildings could accept the proposal. The reduction in the number of jobs results in an unrealistically low figure compared to the existing Fornebu plans. This too greatly contributed to the inability of Bærum to accept the municipal play. However, state buildings gave Bærum municipal signals that the state could be willing to four on the framework figure for the number of jobs if the state’s proposals for housing figures were accepted. However, the municipality of Berum chose not to comply with the negotiation by the State. The government is concerned with local self-government as an important foundation in our democratic society. In some cases, however, government governance is necessary, with a critical focus on conditions that have an impact beyond the borders of each municipality. In this case, in my view, there are strong reasons which argue that both the number of dwellings and jobs should be increased in relation to the framework figures in municipal sub-level 2. Finally, I would like to make it clear that it is not relevant for the Ministry to intervene in relation to State Building's decision to maintain the objection to the framework for the development of Fornebu as it now exists. The objection shall first be dealt with by Akershu County, hopefully it will take place in the current year. If the administration at the processing confirms Bærum municipality level 2, I will, in consultation with the Government, assess whether the matter should be brought to the Environmental Protection Ministry for final decision there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2368	I am surprised at the lack of respect for the central government and the Council of State Davøy with this case shows to local authorities. Everything about local self-government becomes empty words when you hear how little is needed to override the municipality of Bærum. In view of the number of scandals associated with Statsbyggen, I must also say that I am somewhat surprised that the Council of State unilaterally attaches its trust to Statsbyggen, without paying attention to what has also come from the municipality of Bærum. In reality, there are now 50 dwellings per year. years separating Bærum municipality and State Building. This is what it takes to overrun the local self-government. In addition, there are 5 000 more jobs on the stamp on Fornebu. I have to ask: what is the rationale for regional policy that the Government will push a further 5,000 jobs into an area that is already heavily under pressure in terms of growth trends and jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2373	As politicians, we also have a responsibility to facilitate housing when necessary. In my spontaneous interview today, I was actually asked what I could do to help get homes in the Oslo area. Of course, local self-government is important, but we also have a basis for action on the basis of greater social needs than a single municipality has, not only on the basis of professional but also on the basis of political considerations. We have used that in this case. But we have also signaled to the municipality of Bærum that we want a compromise. In particular, we have been concerned about housing. With regard to the number of jobs at Fornebu, the existing level already incorporates approx. 18 000 jobs. This is because of the assumptions already set out in the plan and the plans in place. It is therefore incomprehensible to me that Mr Bærum, in his compromise proposal, wanted to go down to 14 000.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2385	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘Unemployed persons receiving a daily allowance are deprived of their daily allowance if the unemployed person is seeking training or is taking a course of some duration for schooling for the labour market, such as taking a letter of formal qualifications or a certificate of residence. It is necessary to amend the rules on day-to-day pay and the rules on social security. Can the Council of State ensure that this is done?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2394	According to current legislation, § 4 6 of the Swedish Social Security Act, no daily allowance is paid to persons undergoing education or training or taking part in unpaid work. In this context, the main requirement of the day-to-day arrangements for unemployed persons to seek employment is that of the day-to-day arrangements. This starting point reduces the periods of social security and gives a strict but correct incentive to make an effort to get a new job. Some exceptions to this general rule have been made in the context of education and training. The derogations have come in order to meet legitimate needs for labour market-based training and training. However, exceptions are limited, in order to avoid social security becoming the source of funding for long-term education and training. The main exceptions are the following: training/training course, under the auspices of the State of the labour market, the so-called AMO training courses/training organised outside the normal working hours. The reason for this is that what can be combined with work and income is to be combined with daily allowance.shorten day-time training that does not exceed three months of training/training for up to one school year, which is of the same nature as completion/additional training. Some minor adjustments in the above legislation may I see appropriate. At present, therefore, a proposal has been sent to the hearing to allow immigrants with daily allowances to attend Norwegian courses for up to one year while maintaining daily pay. This will improve the labour market opportunities of this group. A proposal as far-reaching as the representative proposed by the Fallet clearly violates the principles on the basis of which the Stortinget adopted that provision. Professional and business letters are part of the ordinary education system, and, as I mentioned earlier, the unemployment benefit should not be the source of funding for regular education and training. The proposal by the representative Fallet could lead to people with rights to daily subsistence allowances being able to finance their education through the public interest, while others would have to take up study loans. A day’s allowance under unemployment is a rights-based scheme for all. If a clear distinction is not drawn between regular education funding and daily allowances, I am afraid that it may affect the level and length of unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2422	I know the code. I ask the question on behalf of those who have been unemployed for nothing and who want to get into a job where they need it. I can mention two concrete examples of these rules failing. Among other things, there is a man who has been unemployed for a long time, he goes to the employment office and is told that he can take a truck driver's course, but then he loses the daily allowance. Nor can he cover the course fee at the social security office or at the employment office. Another example is one that was engaged by the municipality to care for green facilities in the summer and wanted to take a professional letter as a gardener or operator in sports facilities during the period he was not a current jobseeker. But then he would lose his daily allowance. It is important that there are arrangements for people to be educated without losing a grant for living and their families. [[President clubs]] We have to encourage people to take courses in the working life that exists, not school people for leisure. [[The President clubs again.]] I ask again for an assessment of the rules that exist.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2431	And the President is asking for the speaking time to be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2434	Most of those who become unemployed do not, of course, feel that they are innocent; most of them want a job. But I have to disagree with the representative who fell here, because we have to have clear rules for those who are going to receive a daily allowance – and who, in fact, on the basis of it, can get a job if you show up, if they are applying for one – and those who go to an education. It can't be that someone gets money during education, while others have to pay the education themselves. That's why we have this code. That's what the big shot has decided. Otherwise, I might mention at the very end of the day that with regard to all the measures we have through the labour market seat, we all have under review. Of course, we receive invitations and examples that can be useful to us in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2444	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture: ‘The day’s offer of local news to the Svalbard population is news from Enebakk and Romerike, not a single word or picture from local events on Svalbard or in northern Norway. About 60 pst. of the 1400 Norwegian inhabitants of the island group are related to North Norway and therefore have little interest in the Baltic broadcast. What will the Council of State do to ensure that residents of Svalbard get local news from NRK Troms?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2453	In accordance with standard practice, I have obtained an opinion from the NRK on the question asked by the representative of Korsberg. The NRK states the following: ‘Svalbard receives NRK1’s digital TV signal. It is sent from Nittedal and the regional version available is the broadcasts of the NRK from Oslo and Akershus. Anyone who accepts NRK1's digital satellite transmission, whether they live on Svalbard or Oslo, gets the same signal. This means that if, by means of significant additional costs, the transmission from North Norway was to be input into the satellite transmission, for example, large cable companies in Oslo would have to distribute the Northern Norwegian broadcast instead of shipments for Oslo and Akershus. This is not considered appropriate.» I have only recently become familiar with the issue raised by the representative of Korsberg. I would therefore like to discuss the matter more closely with the NRK, among others. to find out if it is possible to transfer the regional consignments from North Norway to Svalbard without excessive costs. For the sake of order, let me point out that Svalbard is not without news from North Norway, as the radio's district broadcasts from NRK Troms are distributed to Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2465	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which gives room to see light in the tunnel. I just want to remind the Council of State that, according to the newspaper Nordlys on November 3rd, the editor-in-chief for program presentation in NRK, Oddvar Kirkebakk, says that ‘The declaration that the Baltic broadcast is sent to Svalbard, on the one hand, is a matter of priority, on the other hand a technical and, on the other hand, an economic matter’. In other words, you have opportunities to fix the problem that I have raised in the question. And then it's important to remind the Council of State that the broadcasting fee has increased several times in order to increase district television broadcasting. I interpret the Council of State's response so that the Council of State will pursue this matter and do what is necessary for the population of Svalbard to bring in North News in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2477	I agree with the representative of Korsberg that we must seek to strive for shipments to Svalbard that are as relevant to the residents there as possible. And I will confirm that I will discuss the matter with the NRK on the first natural occasion. I just want to add that of course we have to look at the cost aspects of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2485	I will ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: ‘According to a press release, the Family Channel wishes to initiate nationwide broadcasts via NRK TO frequency. The channel shall be financed by advertising, not in the usual way, but as a separate item. The advertisement shall be included in the programme itself, which shall be disclosed. Is this in line with Innst? S. No 94 on the additional channel for NRK where the condition for sending on the NRK TO channel was that the consignment was not advertised?’ [[1995-96]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2494	In October of this year the government media administration granted the Family Channel the concession to run satellite television. The company should use the same frequency as the NRK uses to transmit NRK TO over satellite. The channel shall only be sent in the morning when the NRK TO has no transmission. The channel can only be received by households that have their own satellite antenna and by subscribers on the cable networks that choose to distribute the channel. I stress that the Family Channel should not be sent over NRK TO's local ground transmitters, but only over the satellite. Satellite television channels may be financed by advertising. Such broadcasts must comply with the usual rules on broadcasting advertising. This implies that advertising must be sent in blocks between the programmes and that no advertising spots can be sent outside the advertising blocks. The assumption to which the representative Fossum refers relates to the life-vision broadcasts of NRK TO’s local ground transmitters. Since the consignments in question are not to be sent over these senders, there is no breach of the assumptions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2503	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have a number of additional questions, because in the attitude of the family, culture and administration committee it is quite clear: ‘The Committee is aware that the NRK is open to cooperation with non-profit organisations and local TV concessionaries on the NRK-2 channel. The Committee agreed that the broadcasts should not be advertised.’ Then I would like to ask: Has this family channel made an agreement with NRK TO, or who have they made an agreement with? How many viewers do they want now by going over the satellite? What is it really like for viewers – will they be able to distinguish the Family Channel from the NRK TO, or turn on the same button? We agree to protect the public broadcaster for advertising. Is this in line with protection against advertising in the public channels?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2517	To the question of the NRK's position on the matter: The starting point is that the family channel has rented the available capacity of the NRK, which they have been given under the legislation. The channel will then send at the time when the NRK TO has no transmissions. In the case of NRK TO’s ground transmitters, these may be used by life-vision organisations and other non-governmental organisations. This cannot be financed by advertising. So in the case of satellite broadcasts, these can be funded for advertising, but of course there is a code that needs to be followed, and it is a code that is followed by the government's media administration. And should there be a breach of that legislation, of course, the state media administration must intervene.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2527	I believe that this question may remain between the Minister for Culture, the President and the undersigned: ‘In the last 10 years there has been a large increase in the number of cross-band injuries, including in female handball players. Some claim that this is due to the groundwork in the sports halls, but there is little research in this area. What will the Council of State do to launch sport research, including in this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2536	The Ministry of Culture is very aware of the safety of the practitioners in our sports facilities. In the context of the gambling instrument scheme, it is required that all plans for sports facilities are to be granted a prior authorisation before an application for funding can be made. The prior approval is based on sport-functional requirements. The Ministry has been involved for several years in the ongoing European standardisation work on sport decks. In 1995, the Ministry published a manual on floors in multi-purpose halls and a standard tender description was drawn up. A requirement was made for the tender description to be used for the acquisition of sports floors in installations for which funds are to be sought. The requirement specification, which forms part of the tender description, lists a number of functional requirements. This applies to both sport and technical requirements. The specification was developed in cooperation with a separate subject group, including: The Norwegian Handball Association and the Norwegian Construction Research Institute were represented. During the period 1989-92, the Norwegian Construction Research Institute carried out a study of friction between sports floors and handball shoes in 29 multipurpose halls in the Oslo, Bergens and Trondheim areas. The project was financed mainly by funds from the Norwegian General Scientific Research Council, including in particular: Ministry of Culture as a Delfinancier. The main results of the studies can be broadly summarised as follows: There is a relatively small difference between the friction values between parquet floors and the most common types of plastic blankets. The spread in the friction results is at least as large for the different types of shoes as between the different types of floors. The importance of choice of shoes for friction conditions is confirmed by studies carried out in France and a later joint Danish/Norwegian research project. The Ministry has been set up to contribute to the continuation of research in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2558	I would like to thank you for the thorough and positive answer. What we can agree on is that there are many cross-band damage, and that this has increased, but it can't be completely ruled out that it's due to the floor and the shoes. There may also be other reasons. What we know about the matter is that more women than men get cross-band damage. It usually happens in combat situations, and we also know that only half of those who have had cross-band damage come back with the same functionality as they had before the damage. In sports, there's a lot of damage. Bjørn Dæhlie, Vegard Ulvang and Thomas Alsgaard have had back problems, and the learned are fighting if it is due to the double roofs or the skating. Much of the research that has been done in sports is about improving performance. Very little do I think about preventing damage. My question is: does the Minister for Sports, is it equal to the Minister for Culture, to provide funds for increased research in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2571	The representative of Fossum points to an important point. It is absolutely necessary to increase knowledge if we are to be able to develop a good sport policy, a sport policy based on sport for all. The Ministry is committed to helping us increase research efforts. We are already making significant efforts, including: through a major research programme in the Research Council, the so-called Sport Research Programme, where we will contribute 7 million. 1999 kr. I would also mention that we earmark funds for R & D in relation to the Norwegian Sports Federation. There is the situation that the funds have increased somewhat in recent years. We're up in about 1 pst. Of the appropriations for the NIF, and we have an ambition to increase it to 2 pst. This is something we will come back to in the sports message that we will present to Stortinget before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2578	That being the case, it is no. 1 in today's map done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-11-17.ana.ud1360e2587	There is no record available.
