ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e122	Honourable co-representatives! The former deposit representatives Ingov Helland and Carl Viggo Lange are dead. Former representative of Ingolv Helland's dead, 93 years old. Ingolv Helland was born in Hamre in Hordaland, but already in 1930 he came to Stavanger where, after having trained as a gardener, he started trading gardening. Gartneriet he drove to 1977. He had more trust in the industry. He was chairman of the Norwegian Gartner Association's representative and of the Employers' Association of Gartneries and Hage Farms. Ingolv Helland became alternate representative for the purchase sites in West Agder and Rogaland in the period 1950-1953 for Left. He met firmly throughout the 1953 session and was a member of the military committee. In the years 1961-1969 he was a permanent representative of Rogaland. In the first period he was a member of the Social Committee, while in the second period he was a member of the Power Committee and the Forest, Watercourse and Industrial Committee. As a member of the Social Committee, he was particularly pleased to have been involved in the preparatory work for the deployment of popular interest. From a young age, Ingov Helland was interested in politics. He received early training in organizational work and was a member of Stavanger City Council in the period 1946-1963. In ten of these years he was also a member of the Presidency. He was the leader of the Stavanger Left for a year. When left was split in 1972, he became a member of the New People's Party and gained trust in the Stavanger team of the New People's Party. Ingolv Helland was very interested in electricity expansion and was a member and director of the Lightworks Executive Board and rapporteur of both Sira-Kvina Kraftselskap and Lyse Kraftverk. Ingolv Helland made an excellent effort for the abstinence case, both as a speaker and as an organizational man. Already in 1933 he was a member of the IOGT and had more responsibilities within the organization. He was also active in the Stortinges abstinence group. Ingolf Helland was very accessible, had great work capacity and good health. It he got to keep up at an old age. He was known for his cause and clear speech. He followed closely, and was particularly concerned that the policy should not be reduced to personal focus and entertainment. Former PAC Carl Viggo Lange is dead, 95 years old. Carl Viggo Lange met as the Workers' Party representative for the South-Trøndelag and Nord-Trøndelag from 1950 to 1953. Long was also a local political enthusiast, among others. as a member of the Trondheim Municipal Government and Presidencies from 1946 to 1955 as well as in the Board of Directors of Trondheim Arbeiderparti and Sør-Trøndelag Arbeiderparti. Carl Viggo Lange was born in Oslo on April 9, 1904, the second oldest in a five-year-old siblings' team. He was the son of former Nobel Prize winner Christian L. Long and brother to Halvard Lange. Carl Viggo Lange completed the medical examination in 1929 and practiced as a doctor in Oslo from 1930 to 1934 and in Trondheim from 1934 to 1946. After the war, Lange worked as a health inspector in Trondheim, as a district play in the Odds and as a county play in West Agder. He had a strong social commitment throughout his working and political life. Therefore, it was also natural that he entered the social committee during the period he met at Stortinget. Carl Viggo Lange was active in the organisation Mot Dag. That was the background for him being arrested by the German occupying authorities in 1942. Together with 29 others, he was taken to Falstad Prison Camp. While most of his fellow arrestees were released, Lange was held back. In the period until August 1943 he was subjected to harassment, violence and humiliation as punishment for his obvious resistance to Sipo Commander Gerhard Flesch and his men. From August 1943, Long hostage status was imposed on living outside the camp. From here he worked as a doctor for the prisoners every day until February 1945. In the last three months of the war, however, he did not have access to the prison camp, because the Germans suspected him of being connected to the local home front. According to former prisoners, Lange made an outstanding effort for her fellow prisoners through her medical work in Falstad Prison Camp. Until recently, Carl Viggo Lange was one of the perpetrators of a monument that thanks from the prisoners to the locals for their efforts during the war. Long time was meant to be the task of deflecting the monument, which is to be deflected in August this year. So he was not able to carry out this honorable assignment. In deep respect, we bring peace to the memory of Ingolv Hellands and Carl Viggo Lange. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e166	Representatives Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, Are Næss, Odd Eriksen, Kjell Opseth and Trond Giske, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Telemark County, Kari Lise Holmberg, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e191	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e196	I suggest Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e201	Asmund Kristoffersen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Asmund Kristoffersen is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. The representative, Siv Jensen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e206	On behalf of the big business representatives Kenneth Svendsen, Per Erik Monsen and myself, I would like to suggest that the government should ensure that no municipalities charge illegally high municipal charges as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e212	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e235	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 35 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Twist People's Party 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines of response following the speeches by the main speakers for each party group and following contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e242	President, to the debate!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e249	Mr Halvorsen has the floor for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e252	I would like to suggest that it opens up to five lines after the Council of State. The reply proposed for this debate, if it is practiced as yesterday, means that SV does not get a single line, and this is known as an important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e257	As far as the President remembers, the Socialist Left was very active in some of the debates yesterday, but it has nothing to do with the matter. The President will, because we have a tight timetable for today's agenda, maintain his proposal that only three lines will be given after members of the Government. Is there any other party that supports SV at its request? – It does not seem so, and then the President SV considers the proposal to be downhearted, even if we have not had voting. – The President’s debate is thus deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e266	For 2000, the government will contribute to the continuation of the fiscal policy pursued for 1999. As a result, clear priorities need to be established in the budget submitted to the harvest. Priority needs to be given to the municipal sector as well. In the years ahead, the sector will face significant requirements for conversion. In relation to the fiscal challenges facing the Government, the announced real income growth represents a significant strengthening of the income of the municipal sector in 2000. In a tight economic structure, which is endorsed by the entire Committee, there is room for increased income for the municipalities. For 1999, real income growth will be about 1 pst., for 2000 it will be added to a real income increase of 1 1⁄4 pst., or about 2.5 billion kroner. The tight financial management shall lead to lower interest rates and thus also better conditions for the local economy. The growth of income will be largely linked to the action plans for the elderly and health. The action plans in the field of health and care for the elderly are followed up according to the agreed timetable, i.e. the phasing-in plan for the care of the elderly is implemented by 2001. The government therefore assumes that the action plan for the care of the elderly is implemented as originally adopted by the Stortingen, from 1998 to 2001. In line with this, the State budget for 2000 will propose that the operating grant be increased by 800 million. kr, and that the undertaking framework for the start-up grant for nursing homes and nursing homes is set at 5 800 units. The Labour Party believes that the Government here has given them the right that it has always been important to implement the reform in four years. It is therefore important to point out that the regime of the Government is that the municipalities that need longer time for planning and implementation can continue to use the time until 2003. The government is adding to the municipal economic proposition to step up the health sector’s efforts in 2000. This initiative is based on the adopted action plans for investment in medical technical equipment in hospitals, strengthening mental health protection and cancer care. There is currently a debate on how to strengthen local self-government. Government parties believe that a prerequisite for active local democracy is a good local economy. In this context, transfers in the income system become central. Government parties will underline the importance of a living democracy and will therefore facilitate a solid economy in the municipal sector. The majority of the municipal committee argues that it is important that the income system allows for the smoothing of many of the differences between municipalities. Many municipalities face major challenges in addressing the tasks assigned to them. In the case of local self-government, both free revenues and the amount of laws, regulations and administrative provisions are essential to provide room for local priorities. In recent years, the earmarked grants have shown a clear increase. This has a direct link with the implementation of key national targets on elderly care and health. These are plans on which there has been a broad political consensus in the Stortinget. Thus, the growth of the ear-marked grants has a natural cause, but the growth will be temporary or transient. In the 2001 Community Economic Proposition, the Government will return with the inclusion of several earmarked grants in the income system. In addition, the government is now launching a four-year attempt to disengage 20 municipalities from delegating state subsidies to important welfare tasks such as care for the elderly, psychiatry and kindergartens. The test shall assess whether the framework funding provides a more efficient use of resources in municipalities than the current funding system with many earmarked grants. The government is also working on simplifying legislation towards the municipal sector through the ‘Simplifying Norway’ project. This shall also provide increased room for local priorities. On the financial situation for the year 2000, I would like to point out the following: The Government proposes that the compensation for municipalities and counties resulting from the conversion of the income system in 1997 be continued in 2000 according to the same principles as in previous years. The increase in loss compensation is estimated at approximately 470 million. kr. The Government states in the bill that it will propose in the State budget for 2000 that the grant should be effectively unchanged from the level of the grant in 1999. In this context, the Committee supports a proposal to the Stortinget that the Government be asked to investigate and, at the latest, to come back to the 2001 Municipal Economic Proposition with proposals on how to deal with the loss compensation scheme after the end of the transitional period in 2001. Unfortunately, the majority of the Committee will not decide whether they are willing to adjust the price of the Nord-Norway grant before the examination of the State budget for the autumn. The Christian People's Party, together with the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, will support the 2000 price adjustment of the special grant to municipalities and county councils in Northern Norway, while the Progress Party promotes proposals to cancel the North Norway grant. If the Workers' Party, which can help secure a majority in this respect, as they helped to ensure it for 1999, is not willing to price this grant, it would be more straightforward to say about it before the election campaign than to wait with the clarification of the State budget in 2000. The majority of the Committee also asks the Government to return to the Stortinget with proposals that merging municipalities should not be reduced as a result of the merger. The majority of the Committee considers that any benefits resulting from a merger should be taken locally and thus benefit the citizens. It is a correct principle that the money should not primarily benefit the state. In the long term, however, this will also be a State savings. In particular, due to changes in hospital input funding, it has been necessary to change the cost keys. The majority of the Committee therefore also supports the proposals made by the Government to change the cost keys. There is also a majority to set the ordinary discretionary framework for the year 2000 at 4,310 million. kr. Of these, about 1,660 million. exceptional judgement. About 260 million. kr of the discretionary grant, which is intended to cover the transitional current balancing of income, is shown as a separate item, and proposals are made to that effect. The increase decided last year that the introduction of current income balancing should be carried out and implemented, if possible, in the year 2000. The government has followed up on this and has made proposals for current revenue balancing from the year 2000, i.e. that the difference between taxable municipalities and taxable municipalities is to be compensated, based on the current tax intake over the year, rather than on two-year-old tax figures. This will be introduced from the year 2000. At the same time, a transitional arrangement has been proposed, which means that municipalities that lose more than DKK 100 per year in the year 2000. built-in as a result of the loss of tax revenue in 1998 as a basis for calculation, to be compensated by 50 pst. For 2001, it will be difficult to design a similar transitional arrangement. The main reason is the transfer of corporation tax to the State in 1999. Municipalities and county councils that come out particularly poorly should therefore be taken into account in the 2002 discretionary award. At the hearings of the Committee, the Central Association of Municipalities welcomed this model. I am particularly pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the proposal to establish a grant scheme for particularly resource-intensive users of municipal services. The Christian People's Party believes that this will be an important contribution to preventing disabled individuals from becoming caste balls between administrative levels, or between municipalities and counties. The majority of the Committee also supports the determination of the taxpayer for the autumn, as a result of uncertainty as to the tax intake. However, the members of the Committee from the Government Parties have noted that for 2000 the actual level of tax revenue of municipalities and counties is estimated to be the same as in the revised national budget for 1999. This means that the municipalities and county councils have received safe signals from which it is possible to plan. Finally, the Committee recommends to the Grand Duchy to ask the Government to submit proposals to facilitate the rapid entry into service of asylum seekers and refugees and to allow for a faster settlement outside the reception of asylum. It is with great pleasure that I note that the government's plans for the municipal economy in 2000 have broad support.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e319	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e322	It is important first to state that most of the public service production takes place in the municipalities and in the county municipalities. That is to say, the majority of the production of the welfare services to which the inhabitants of the country have access is done in the municipalities and county municipalities, which in turn implies that we must facilitate the economy of the municipalities and counties in such a constitution that they are able to produce the services for which the citizens are in demand and need. Therefore, it is also important that we have an income system that takes account of the allocation policy considerations that are needed to ensure that the citizens of the country have the most equal and fair access to the welfare services that we are talking about here. We have seen over time that the local economy is still tightening up. In 1998, it was one of six municipalities that signed their budgets. In 1999, the number was increased to one of three municipalities. Then my question, in the light of the policy considerations of distribution which I believe the central parties are also prepared to take care of: are you satisfied with the general development of the local economy that the Government proposes through the presentation of the municipal economic proposition? So one last short question that goes on this with the redistribution. The working party is associated with the centre parties on a formulation aimed at improving redistribution through the income system, including: through reduced taxpayers. But then the centre parties have suddenly allied themselves with the Right Party and the Advance Party in stressing the importance of local government tax revenue having a local anchor. How can the representative Ivar Østberg explain the relationship between the two recordings you've been dealing with in the setting?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e331	Like the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party is aware of and agrees that the main production of services takes place in the municipalities. And we are, like the Workers' Party, engaged in creating a fair income system. So it is said that we have still had a contraction in the municipal budgets. Yes, it is now such that all the new things that we in this room or the politicians and the inhabitants of the municipalities want to do, we cannot do within the growth we have at all times. You have to go inside and look at the problems you're already doing. Are all necessary? Can they be done in another way? How can we convert to make room for the new things? I am not willing to accept that the situation is as black as it is sometimes described. Many municipalities have problems, but in 1997 the real increase of DKK 5 billion was for the municipal sector, last year NOK 2 billion, so it is added to a real increase of DKK 2.5 billion to next year. The situation is difficult for some municipalities, useful for some and very good for some. For the Christian People's Party it is possible to have two heads – excuse me, two thoughts – in your head at the same time. This is why we can both say that local anchoring is important in terms of the tax base and agreeing with the wording with the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e342	At a time when just the parties that have always promised the municipalities gold and green forests are sitting with the government power, it must be embarrassing for them to get some significant criticism from several teams about lack of money to the municipalities. But that is now another matter. However, we should all be concerned with streamlining the municipal sector in order to achieve better use of resources. Does the Christian People's Party believe that the 200 billion kroner spent in the county and municipal sectors are actually used effectively enough? Or do you think there is room for savings through efficiency measures? In that case, the Christian People's Party believes that today's operating model for the municipalities, with agencies that have monopolies to perform, almost all services and services, is really a guarantee that municipalities are using the money effectively? Is it not true that the Christian People's Party realizes that it is the needs of the users that are crucial, and not the question of whether it is the municipality's own employees or private companies that carry out the care of the elderly or other types of typical municipal services? Is not the Christian People's Party concerned about the development of costs in municipalities and thus willing to assess any possibility of improving efficiency, including by using tenders and more competition, and having more market convergence on the part of local authorities? Isn't it so that the Christian People's Party is on the verge of these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e352	No, the Christian People's Party is not in gli, but I feel that the Advancement Party is slipping both here and there in these questions. Local selfgovernment is sometimes fought, while the vote suggests that most of it be transferred to the state. Occasionally, the municipality of Norway is also produced in the form of a sytem culture, which will not make it more efficient. The Christian People's Party has always believed that there is room for improvement and efficiencies, not only within the municipalities, but also within the private sector. But the Christian People's Party wants a strong public sector in interaction with the private sector. The Christian People's Party has always wanted competition, but not competition at all costs. We're skeptical about putting the elderly in tender. There are some important services that should not be made profit targets in the interests of users. It would be interesting if the Progress Party might come up with a somewhat more nuanced view and tell you what the price of the piece would be for highly disabled students in the school, if it's the same price as for any other student. We are in favour of strong public Norway in interaction with the private sector. We are not afraid of competition, but any use of competition we leave to local democracy to decide. We don't decide that from here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e361	I expected the case rapporteur in a previous line to give tips on a new renewable energy source with ‘two heads in the tank’, but it stopped halfway. – So to the matter. This is an emphatic setting on an array of issues that somehow touch the theme of municipal economics, but without the great clarifications. In the Right's view, the setting bears the mark of a standing manoeuvre without the Government or the majority of the population clarifying important framework conditions for the municipalities. A primary responsibility for this must be left to the centre parties and the rapporteur. The government parties postpone the clearance of the taxpayer for the autumn.The government parties neglect the strong increase in fees in the municipalities, which put pressure on the inhabitants, such as: has been covered by the press in the last days. The Government has postponed the clarification on the future development of key elements of the income system. Most importantly, the loss compensation scheme is growing to a full height in 2001. But the most central issue is the question of earmarked funds. There is no lack of eloquence on municipal freedom on the part of the government parties. However, not a single earmarked item is proposed to be removed either in this community economic proposition or in the setting. The whole project is being pushed out to the municipal economic proposition for the next year, for the year 2001. The Government Parties do not support a single of 14 concrete proposals from the Right on items in which earmarked grants can be included in the framework appropriations. The message to the municipalities is clearly that ‘You will get a day this year’ or to the next year, but not this year. I have a question for the case rapporteur on municipal freedom. On the right, there is a note in the chapter entitled ‘A simpler Norway’, asking for the pilot project with greater freedom for municipalities to be launched quickly, and for some of the municipalities receiving some earmarked grants as framework appropriations to be included in the pilot project exempting specific legislation. Will the Christian People's Party support this when it comes up?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e385	The government has clearly stated the level of tax revenue at which it will be based, giving clear signals to municipalities and county councils to plan on. It is justified why one does not want to determine the taxpayer now, but which in previous years is waiting for the government budget, namely to get an overview of the level of tax revenue, so that the best possible distribution can be achieved. For government parties, not only predictability but also distribution is an important principle. Yes, I would have liked to have seen that we could do something more about earring, but I dare remind you that 20 municipalities are being tried in this area. I want to be very positive that some of these 20 municipalities can also participate in the free-dominant attempt that the representative Ryssdal asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e392	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e395	It is true that in recent years there has been a growth in transfers to municipalities, both in terms of income, unemployment and the number of employees, but it is also important to remember that this growth is unevenly distributed between municipalities. The municipalities are different and the average municipality does not exist. Many municipalities now have a lot of work to do, and the government has not taken it in properly. The government's arrangement carries the bid for still tight times for many municipalities, and there is no much better distribution between municipalities. At the beginning of May this year, the Central Bureau of Statistics reported that last year Norwegian municipalities and county municipalities had a total operating deficit of almost NOK 5 billion. It was a great increase compared to the previous year. The SSB estimates that there will also be a large operating deficit this year. More than one in three municipalities have a deficit budget for this year. In 1998, there was one in six. What is really happening out in many Norwegian municipalities today? Well, babysitting is then stopped, and the prices go to the worst. We have the lowest kindergarten expansion of over 20 years. In school, we've seen a line break from this government. Private schools are approved in series and rows, while public schools are reduced in many places and do not receive the necessary upgrading. The school leisure system has also become much more expensive in many municipalities, which means that many parents have to take their children out of school leisure and kindergarten. When the local economy is as tight as it is now, it's mainly children and young people that go beyond it, and then we're about to create new class divisions. The Labour Party believes that this is wrong, and it is also wrong when we talk about distribution policy. We therefore believe that the Government's proposal for the municipal sector next year is too bad, and it is far from the Central Party's promises of much more money to the municipalities. Go off or give more to next year, Vice-President of the Centre Party Åse Groenlien Østmoe said about his own government's municipal structure for 1998, the year that is currently the worst throughout the 1990s. 1999 appears to be worse. The government's plans for the year 2000 are also tight, which will have to go beyond the provision of services in the municipalities. Nor has the government fulfilled the statements that there would be more in free income and less in earmarked grants to municipalities. Municipal Minister Odd Roger Enoksen has said that if that happened, he had a credibility problem. For the first time in the 1990s, not a single earmarked grant has been proposed for inclusion in the municipal framework grant. I agree with the Enoch and the Center parties that he and the party at this point have a credibility problem. During the treatment of the state budget for next year, we will increase the appropriations for the municipalities, as we did for the current year, when we proposed about NOK 1 billion more, and approx. One billion dollars in redistribution between municipalities. The exact number for next year we have to come back to the harvest, but the direction is clear. There must be more money in the local government sector, and at least we will talk about about NOK 1 billion more to the municipalities than the government proposes. In a newspaper post sent out yesterday by the municipal minister, he says that the Workers' Party is increasing the uncertainty of the municipalities and that we are playing a game. Yes, he even called our way of being irresponsible. I know that attack often is the best defense, but these are statements that I take a distance from, and that I actually think are in the driest of layers. Is it to create uncertainty for the municipalities to signal that one has actually intended to give more money to them? Is it really that when we don't think the government's arrangement is good enough, we're irresponsible? This is with respect to report a strange rhetoric, especially when we all know how the Center Party behaved in the opposition. And to have said that -- we have no ambitions to copy it. I think it's important that we try to keep what we promise. I also believe that many local politicians, including centre party rapporteurs, would be happy if they got more money. But the point is so far that the Center Party has chosen to cooperate with the Right Party and the Advance Party, not with us who could secure more money for the local government sector. The councils also said in their newspaper article: ‘Does the Workers’ Party want to increase the size of both free and earmarked funds? Nope. Uncertainty is increasing’. This is wrong. As stated in the vote of the Municipal Committee, we will increase the appropriations to both parts of the State budget for the autumn, both the earmarked and the free resources, with a total of about DKK 1 billion. We do this in order to provide services specifically for children and young people, in order to give municipalities some local freedom of action, and not least in order to allow municipalities to benefit from the large earmarked grants in the case of older people and health. I think it is positive that the government now adheres to the progress plan that the Stortinget has previously adopted for the development of nursing homes and homes. This shows that the Workers' Party has been right when we have arranged for the plan to be implemented in four years, as the Stortinget said earlier. But for us to do that progress plan, municipalities must have the opportunity to use the earmarked grants. In our opinion, the arrangement of the government does not take enough height for it. We have also seen that some municipalities have had problems getting the money out to the elderly, which is partly due to a tight community economy, but which is also related to the way in which the word ‘activity growth’ has been interpreted. By May 1st this year, 218 million were held back. kr. Several municipalities can document activity growth, for example: in the form of care for several older people, but has not been qualified for increased resources. I am therefore pleased that a broad majority in the Stortinget supports us in that the room to benefit from local discretion needs to be expanded. This is in order to avoid unfairness and to avoid the standing of appropriations for care for the elderly. We also come from our side to look at the snow spot for the autumn, as several things have been added there. We are pleased that special grants to particularly resource-intensive users are now included in the pot, but we need to look at the size. I think it's also important that we go carefully through the criteria for that. I'm glad the majority signal that it would be wrong to add age dentures to those criteria. We will also, on behalf of the Workers' Party, make proposals for the autumn to improve the distribution of services between municipalities, as we did for the current year, in order to ensure that services are as equivalent as possible. We have also had a Document No in parallel with the municipal planning for the next year. 8-proposals from Kjell Opseth and myself that one should not lose on merging municipalities if desired locally. I am pleased that everyone, except the Progress Party, supports this proposal, so that at least the economy does not become an obstacle to merging. On this front, there's actually a lot of exciting happening. Several municipalities apply together in more obligating forms of cooperation, and some work together. Both parts should be encouraged, without our intention to force anyone to join forces. But we believe that in the long run it can be money to earn by joining forces, money that can be spent on a better service offer for the inhabitants. There are also many other good reasons why this might be true in some cases. The design of the municipal boundaries, and therefore the size of the municipalities, should primarily focus on the needs of the inhabitants at the centre. I am therefore pleased that our proposal that voluntary mergers – for a period of time – should not lead to reduced transfers is being abandoned here today. Finally, let me point out that the reviews we are going to have of the income system should be as comprehensive as possible. I think here, among other things. on the critique review in relation to scattered housing, intoxication and psychiatry. It is also important that the Storting should be presented with an overview of how the changes relating to Rattsø I and Rattsø II have actually been eliminated. And last but not least, we should all put ourselves in the harness to ensure the municipalities a little more predictability – and I look forward to the government's assessment of a separate consultation arrangement with the local authorities' Central Association. But I would also like to stress strongly that predictability does not mean the least possible money. I have not seen any rapporteur say that they believe that the Government's proposals are at all times as predictable as possible. And I do not know any rapporteur who says no to more money. We intend to give more rapporteurs more money for next year. What's exciting is to see if the Government and the Center will be involved in this, or if they still choose the right side as partners, with the consequences it will have for Kommune-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e440	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e443	Both listening to the representative Brustad and reading the Workers' Party's comments in the setting of the municipal economy for the year 2000 are a very depressing affair. How much sewing, wailing and complaining – and self-crushing, for that matter – shall we hear from that party? Last year we were told that unemployment would go straight to heaven, and that much more money had to be allocated to employment measures. It turns out now that this was greatly exaggerated divination. These doomsday prophets in the Workers' Party are now turning again and find that everything will be cut out in the municipalities if more money is not injected, as Sylvia Brustad said in his post. Do they make the same amount of mistakes as they did last year? The answer is not to inject more new tax billions into all these inefficient municipal monopolies, as the Labour Party believes. Municipalities hardly need more money – they have more money than they have ever done before – but they need to get more out of all the money they already have. That's what's the challenge. It is therefore time for Norwegian municipalities to operate according to more business principles in order to increase the quality and price awareness of the municipalities. Where local government operations cannot be challenged by competition, strictly targeted allocation of resources is the only means of efficiency available. As a responsible party, the Workers' Party should be very concerned about preventing their gloomy prediction of the miserable financial prospects for the municipalities. In this way they will get a free tip from me: Go out to their many local government representatives in the Workers' Party and tell them that if there is a cut in the services because of lack of money, try to reduce the costs by purchasing tenders and putting out competition before you cut the services. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] It must at least be better to try out tenders and competition before going...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e452	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e455	...to the drastic step of cutting down on the services of the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e460	Number is too long
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e463	It's sad if Andersen's representative is depressed by reading the setting, but sometimes the truth can be a little depressing. And it's in no way that the Workers' Party exaggerates, we can just look at the naked numbers' speech, like, among other things. say that, for example: In fact, in 1997 16 400 kindergartens were built. In 1998, the figure was down to 3,500 new kindergartens, and for this year a measure has been adopted for kindergarten development in 2 500 kindergartens. That the Progress Party is not concerned about it, no one surprises, but the Labour Party is concerned about it on behalf of the young people who now do not get the hard-pressed kindergarten that they should have, but for whom the parents cannot afford to pay, because the prices have gone bad. We also see the same developments in the school leisure system: the prices are set up because the municipalities do not have enough money, which leads to young people being taken out. That's how we could have taken area by area in terms of children and young people, and it's actually a development that concerns the Workers' Party. That's why we say we need to have something more money for the municipalities, but we also have to redistribute the money that the municipalities have in a better way than the situation today. The Progress Party will not be in any of it, so the Progress Party must be very satisfied with the situation that is in the municipalities. The answer of the Progress Party is: we have to put more money into tenders, and we have to have more market solutions. But has not the Progress Party realized that Norwegian municipalities are very different? As far as I'm aware, it's a prerequisite if you're going to have things on offer and a contingent market solution, that it's actually a market. In many of the municipalities of the country in the district of Norway, there is no strong competition to operate important public services, and it is not that everyone lives in the central part of the country where there are some who will compete for things. We in the Workers' Party are committed to ensuring that all citizens of the country are provided the same equivalent services as possible. But then you can't bet on free competition, as the Progress Party wants. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e477	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e480	It is possible that I do not know any rapporteurs who would say no to more money. I know at least that I know many rapporteurs who say that reforms that are being introduced must be fully financed. One of the earmarked grants we have in the school sector is just compensation for investment costs related to Reform 97. In 1998, we spent 423 million. And this year we're going to spend 529 million. kr. The Christian People's Party was opposed to the reform, but is subject to full funding, and therefore we follow up on the work of creation. The fact that we've got six-year-olds into school is one of the clear reasons why kindergarten expansion has gone down, without mentioning it by the Workers' Party. I have to be allowed to ask: is it so that the Workers' Party says yes to both parts all the time? It's great if we find money to increase the municipal sector by 1 billion. At the same time, the Labour Party wants to increase the free resources somewhat. Then they're going to strengthen health, which is ear-marked, they're going to strengthen care, which is ear-marked, they're going to strengthen SFO, which is ear-marked, they're going to strengthen kindergartens, which are ear-marked, plus school. Is it «harry money» the Workers' Party operates with? Or are we going to experience a new attack on the cash support this fall?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e487	I strongly reject the fact that the Workers' Party operates with ‘harry money’, even in relation to the transfers to the municipalities. As the representative of Østberg is well known, the Labour Party proposed for the current year approx. 1 billion more to the municipalities, and approx. One billion dollars in redistribution. This was not supported by the Christian People's Party, the Central Party or the rest of the government parties, nor by the Right and Advance Party. The Christian People's Party and the government parties made a choice when they chose to cooperate with other parties in terms of transfers to the municipalities, and this actually resulted in less money to the municipalities. It's a little strange that our party, which actually had proper money and proper coverage and would give more to the municipalities, is being attacked because we would actually give more for the rest of this year in connection with the revised national budget. We've also said that we're going to do it for next year, and of course we're going to do it in a real way. We don't say yes to both. I do not agree with the representative of Østberg that it is the six-year reform that is the main reason for the stagnant development of kindergartens. No, the main reason for this is that the cash support that has now been introduced has led many municipalities to sit on the fence and wait, among other things. on a child care notice that has been promised for several months and is again postponed until the autumn because it does not know what the situation will look like in relation to kindergartens, and because the Government, with the support of the Right and Advance Party, has reduced State grants for operation and investment in the kindergarten sector. That's why there'll be fewer kindergartens. And because the local economy is so tight, there are also many municipalities that have to set up prices for kindergartens. We have said no to cash support, as it exists today. But we have agreed to a better service provision for children and young people. There has never been any secret on our part that we are concerned about prioritising not least the kindergarten sector, but also the school situation. We operate in a proper way. That's what we're going to do for next year, and in the setting, we've also suggested what size we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e496	The President will note with reference to both this post and the previous one that the coin ‘harry money’ is unknown for this coin. The President hopes for his part that there will still be an unknown currency here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e499	I will continue a little bit in connection with the previous line exchange. The billion that the Workers' Party is still talking about is, at best, according to their own observation, 840 million. kr. Then the representative Brustad said that part of this is increased funds for kindergartens. There is disagreement as to how much municipalities will use – according to the circumstances that Brustad himself pointed out – of these 125 million. NOK, and then the Workers' Party added a new 125 million. kr in bets. But the question is whether any of this would have been used if the Workers' Party's proposal had been adopted. So one can take a million for a million of the 840, and we're left with a few hundred million. With regard to increased free resources for municipalities, the Workers' Party itself points out that this is a prerequisite, as they write in a note on page 27 of the vacancy, for municipalities to be able to avail themselves of the earmarked grants to be included in the Workers' Party's health, SFO, kindergartens and schools. Then the Labour Party in the 1999 budget is proposing 130 million. kr to the primary municipalities in increased free resources, suggesting that they are about the level it might reach next year as well. What does that mean for a single municipality? To take the municipality of Sylvia Brustad, Engerdal, it means an extra 152 000 kroner net to the municipality of Engerdal. For my home municipality, Bergen, it means 3.7 million. kr. Then the question is asked to the Workers' Party: How much extra bet in school, in the elderly and in kindergarten will this be? The answer is: very little – and fortunately very little to run election campaigns for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e512	I have to say I am somewhat surprised at the somewhat offensive tone of the representative Ryssdal, especially after the many rounds we have had in the committee in relation to what the Workers' Party's billion was or was not, where the Right claims that the sum is 200 million. And where we say it's about $1 billion. We have calculated this on the basis of the calculations we have received from the Ministry of Finance. We've been printed by the Budgetary Secretariat here in the house that those numbers are correct. Yesterday we received a letter from the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs confirming that our figures are correct, and I would like to quote from it: ‘It is therefore correct, as indicated in the statement in Chapter 2.2.1 of the Committee’s position on the Community Economic Proposition, that the Workers’ Party’s proposal involves a reduction in tax revenue of DKK 906 million for the municipal sector in relation to the budget adopted, against a corresponding increase in the framework grant.’» So I want to say once again, and I have with me the government on it, that our numbers are right. Otherwise, I find reason to stress – to what the representative Ryssdal said – that the right for several rounds has had many ways of calculating things. Among other things, they have omitted some of the calculations they have done in the past, what is actually involved in increases in earmarked grants. It's important here that we have an overview. I think our calculations are right. It would have brought more money to both kindergartens and schools, and it would have resulted in more money for free income. We have also received confirmation from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e524	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e527	The local government sector shall concentrate its activities around defined and statutory primary tasks. Following the opinion of the Progress Party, the State shall ensure a good service provision within basic services such as health care, care for the elderly and schooling, and that municipalities are given freedom to develop locally adapted services in addition to this. Municipal self-government must be strengthened. However, citizens must be guaranteed well-being, such as health, care and education, without regard for each of them living and without regard for the local economy and priorities. The best way to do this is to ensure that these services are fully priced by the country. By releasing the municipalities from the financial responsibility for these basic services, municipalities will have sufficient freedom to manage their other income and expenditure. This will also lead to a need for the Storting to secure the financial base when it adopts new major reforms. The way the system works today, responsible municipalities with good financial management are punished by the state taking money from them and giving them to badly run municipalities. We want a new system where everyone gets the same basic privileges. Different municipal priorities will therefore no longer be able to weaken basic services towards the people. The introduction of target management, price financing, rationalisation and efficiency make it possible to make savings without reducing supply. The main objective of the party for progress is to increase the individual’s freedom of action. Security and joy of life are a means of individual feeling that one has an impact on one’s own life. As a result, the progress of the project is aimed at a society in which most decisions are taken directly by its inhabitants. Municipalities should be living communities where people know their homes and can influence their everyday lives. As politicians, we still have to ask ourselves: What are the performances that the citizens want? We can get the answers through more contact with the basic plan through public opinion, questionnaire or public meeting. Good economy is important for the provision of services. But local democracy has proved to be so vital when the economy is bad. The municipal sector as a whole seized large resources, and much could be saved by stimulating competition in municipal services. Municipalities should gather their management seats in a service office, so that customers are not forced to run from one office to the other to arrange the same business. Local authorities shall be a service body which has as its primary task the assistance of its inhabitants. Politicians and bureaucrats should therefore not place unnecessary obstacles and bans on individuals, businesses, teams and organisations. The Progress Party believes that all people should have the legal right to hospital, care, education and economic social assistance, regardless of every cage in the country. The production of the services may also be done by others than the public. The state finances and takes control. The step-by-step party wants the residents to have the freedom to choose the hospital, the care services and the school that best suits them. The freedom of choice shall be guaranteed by the fact that the public and the State guarantee to cover the costs. As it is about securing individual freedom and security, regardless of the country of a cage, it is natural that the state assumes responsibility for this, not the municipalities. The municipal sector has high savings potential. If competition stimulates municipal services – not only the technically simple but also the heavy ones – within health and care, the potential for savings is particularly high. This will lead to a better municipal economy. The State's financial cushioning between municipalities should be reduced and based on objective criteria. I find that despite the fact that one at several times has found that the hall of municipal property, such as the axes in power companies, and competitive incentives are better for the municipal economy, there are many municipalities that have not tried this, most based on the political principle. If local authorities change the hold of these principles, the savings potential is particularly large. Fortunately, some advisers have now discovered this. So it's, as the saying goes, hope in hanging strings. I would therefore argue that the municipalities themselves have part of the debt for their own financial situation. However, I agree with those who claim that Stortinget imposes on the municipalities one reform after another, and that the money does not follow. We in the Progress Party take a positive view that municipalities voluntarily merge, and that the hope is set in motion for this. But we mean to expand the arrangement that the base bill can be maintained by layers beyond the five years that are now in force, is not the way to go. A similar base for all municipalities seems to be a lock against merging, because a merge leads to a base write-up of only one after a time, instead of two. A combination that in itself can be cost-saving and sensible can be stopped as a result of this scheme. The natural thing is to dissociate the basic idea, so that the municipalities that make the choice of not merging themselves have to bear the costs, and so that the municipalities that make a merger choice will have the benefits of doing so. The savings will be included in the total amount of transfers to municipalities. The scan mail must be gradually removed and not increased. Local authorities must be given greater financial responsibility by reducing the state financial transfer between municipalities and by basing it on the objective criteria set out in Rattsø I and II in relation to citizens' contributions. It is necessary to create a system that promotes municipalities that take up the challenges themselves and adopts measures that increase the income base. It is not fair for such municipalities to be penalised, as the system is today, with income compensation in favour of those municipalities that do little or nothing to improve their own situation. We in the Progress Party also believe that earmarks must be reduced and removed in the long term. This applies only to ear-marked additions which are of a general nature and which were introduced to influence the priorities of different tasks. Eyemarked contributions, which are in practice the price financing of services, are not of the type of support that needs to be reduced or removed, since this is earmarking which has an efficiency promotion effect, cf. Rattsø selection. I'm glad that one of them has now come to realize that a system is needed for those municipalities that get a lot of pressure as a result of heavy users being moved from institutions to their own homes. Many municipalities have a particular great responsibility for the disabled with a very great need for help. Therefore, there is an exceptional need for those municipalities that have users with a need for help above a certain level. This will ensure that these disabled people are given equal offers throughout the country without regard to where they live. This is particularly heavy for small municipalities. However, I would argue that for the heavy users with the greatest damage, it must be assessed whether an institutional provision will provide better quality of life, community and care. For many municipalities, cooperation across local borders, with small inter-municipal institutions, will be a better alternative both economically and when it is possible to provide good services to users. I would argue that certain aspects of institutions that were good and that worked better than they do today for some heavy users should be able to re-use. Some municipalities, based on their own experience, have implemented or made suggestions to implement the establishment of smaller institutions for some heavy users, especially within mental retardation. This will be particularly relevant for the heaviest users, and for many of them this will be a better option than the provision of own housing. This is also a more reasonable arrangement for municipalities. It might have been interesting to comment on Ivar Østberg's price financing. I have a suggestion: he gets to read the basics of some of the programs that we're going to come back to. In the case of Sylvia Brustad's remark that there is cash support that leads to a smaller number of kindergartens, and that the 6-year-old reform has no impact on it, she must speak against better knowledge. I was the head of the establishment in a municipality when the reform was introduced, and there is no doubt that already then – and it was a long time before the cash support came – there was a smaller need for kindergartens. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Progress Party and the Right and the proposals from the Progress Party. The suggestions are on page 46 of the configuration. But I must ask that proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, will be changed, as an incursion has made the wrong year at the end of the proposal. The last year, 2003 shall be 2002. It also applies where the proposal is on page 32 of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e567	Lodve Solholm has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e572	The dividing line between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party in the adjustment is crystal clear in relation to the relationship with the public sector. On the part of the Workers' Party, it is important to underline the municipal economic proposition as the main distribution policy document The Stortinget deals with. It is, as I said, in the municipalities and county municipalities most of the public service production takes place. That is why it is so important to achieve a fair distribution policy income system for the local government sector. Everyone should be able to participate in welfare development regardless of where they live in the country, whether you live in Oslo, in Loppa, in Engerdal or in Ålesund. However, the party of progress is drawing a picture of a completely different society from the rest of the parties here in Stortinget. The Progress Party stresses that it is the State that must ensure the provision of services. Suddenly, the state has become the salutary for the welfare development of the country, while the municipalities have to act as a ‘modern firm’. In the setting, the party manufactures the municipalities as a solid self-service shop, where the residents – or again the Progress Party – say: the customer – can pick services as needed and where the state gets the bill. At the same time, this party underlines the need for a strong reduction in taxes, levies and public intervention, as stated above. the notes in the setting. However, municipalities should be able to determine the level of taxation themselves. Does the representative, Mr Solheim, see that, through such a policy, there is a danger that the citizens will not be able to get the services they need, to be present, because of a lack of funding, and that there will be major differences in the country? It's a little easy to say that people's money is going to finance health and care, when at the same time you want to tear away the income base that we have through the tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e581	First, I want to say that I am a little disappointed that after over a year in the committee, the representative Eriksen has not learned my name. But we're going to have to take it the way it comes. Here the representative speaks of Eriksen as being afraid that there will be a greater difference in the municipality of Norway. Yes, now the Labour Party and the Government Party, the old parties, have ruled this country from both big business, county and local government – and now we have differences. There is now a difference between the provision of services for public health, care and education within basic services. And that's what we're saying that we want to do something about. These basic services – health, care and schooling – should be the same everywhere, and we can best do that by taking financial responsibility and using popular and price finance. Then there will be no municipal priority and the municipal economy that is the reason why there will be no provision. Then a few justices, then all people who live in this country will be able to have the same offer, whether they live in Oslo or on the 'extremely naked island'. It's a fair system. But when the Labour Party's representative Eriksen here criticises that we now have differences, he must remember that when one points to others, three fingers always point back to yourself!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e592	Now, it is probably not expected the sharpest line-up between the Right and the Advance Party in this debate, all the time we are together on some comments, and indeed proposals. Nevertheless, there is one element in the Progress Party's special comment that the Right could expect to be further illuminated through the line chord shift, and it is about the contact with the base planet. The Progress Party lists significant ways of getting in touch with the basic plan, through referendums, questionnaires, community associations and public meetings. Some of us have a fresh memory that this with referendums is not always that simple, at least it has to be done thoroughly. The same problem can, of course, be reported in the case of public meetings, i.e. where ‘time’ it is to draw clear conclusions from public meetings. And this with questionnaires: Forms are, of course, an element in themselves that calls for certain counter-conceptions. So my question to Lodve Solholm is, how do you operate this system, if it gets a volume? Can you control this as part of democracy, without it generating bureaucracy? It goes on to say that there must be a degree of freedom in these municipalities. How can one expect to control these well-meaning and perhaps bursting signals from the population to an established freedom in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e599	Contrary to Right, we are a party that will listen to the base plane. We've got it back to programming, and we want even more folklore than we have today. That the Right didn't like it, we have just been clarified in this room when there was some local regulation on the Mure coast, on the South Luten. That it might be difficult to interpret the signal and summarize the people's unity in well-being, in the public meeting or in the questionnaire, yes, that challenge I see. But we don't have to because there can be certain problems or challenges, say no, we don't want anything to do with people. Let them just choose us in for four years, and then we take the lead, almost after the saying, "The God gives an office, he also gives understanding." We in the Progress Party recognize that we, as politicians, are appointed to serve the people. It is the people who have chosen us into various councils and selections, local government and county councils. And then we've said we're willing to listen to the signals coming from the base plane. We want most of the decisions that are made in our society to be taken almost exclusively – and preferably by individuals themselves, as far as possible. And if we are able to sum up the individual's desire for their local environment and area, it's a challenge for us politicians to make sure that what they want happens.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e610	I feel that the Progress Party has more rhetoric than politics. They have many fine wordings – very fine – that I should have liked to have signed. I quote from some of the comments of the Progress Party in today's setting: ‘These members will point out that security and joy of life are a prerequisite for individuals to feel that they have an impact on their own lives.’ Another is the statement: ‘The communities must be living communities where people know their homes and can influence their everyday lives.’ I fully agree with that, but if the municipalities are to be living communities, they also need a good economy. It looks as if the Progress Party also recognizes it, because they see that good economics are important, and they say: ‘These members will claim that security depends on one’s ability to influence one’s own situation, and that one does not risk a sudden turn of the existence on the head because of public decisions.’ Nevertheless, the Progress Party wants to turn its life upside down for many individuals and many municipalities, with its constant proposals to remove the subsidy to the municipalities. A grant that is important for ensuring the economy and equivalent offers of North Norway, as it is said here that the Progress Party also wants, that is the special North Norway grant. This will be removed by the Progress Party. It doesn't mean very little. For North Norway, that means about. 1.6 billion kroner, because my municipality means 5 million in the year. kr, and for the two closest neighbouring municipalities, Wefsn and Rana, respectively, 15 and 28 million. kr. Why can't the Progress Party see that this grant is involved and ensures the individual ‘freedom and security independent of every cage in the country’, as they so nicely say? And what's the Progress Party going to put in instead?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e631	Yes, the world is moving forward. Now the Center Party has also begun to talk positively about the Progress Party. It's happy, and it might be seen as positive when it comes to the budget management of the cottage. So claimed the representative Kvalbukt that the Progress Party will turn down on the everyday life of most. If we were to do that, it would be for the better, because we would simply secure all people, including those who live in North Norway, basic services such as health, care and school, by the state taking over the financial responsibility for this. There's one offer instead of the North Norway bill. The second is the Progress Party's overall economic policy, which means that the values will be where they are created. The fact that the enterprises and the people can keep as much of their own value as possible will make some of these excesses unnecessary and superfluous. And when they keep their own created values, they will also be much more convenient to manage them in such a way that they get the most benefits, and there will be a better distribution. The fact that the North Norway bill is $1.6 billion is unknown to me. I thought it was 200-300 million. NOK, but it is possible that I am wrong. That it might have become a sleeping cushion for some people, I don't ignore it. It must be possible to pursue another policy that ensures the basic services of all those who live in Norway, regardless of where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e642	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e645	The debate on the urban economic proposition is an annual phenomenon that does not always provide the very big clarifications. The proposition and setting will often be of the approximate type in line with statements dealing with local democracy, district policy and the like. In my view, more clarifying is the annual budgetary processes, where the intentions are followed up with concrete appropriations and priorities. It is difficult to track some course changes from the Government and the majority in this year's debate. It's the way the government likes to keep going. The reason for this, of course, is that there is an inherent desire on the part of many to continue as before with the necessary additions, in order to avoid unpleasant efficiencies. It is also obvious that the central parties and the Labour Party do not take the challenge of prioritizing local democratic freedom and government. This leads me to a major point, namely how the bulk of the population deals with the theme of earmarked grants to Kommune-Norway. This is where the growth of the local economy comes, despite statements that the opposite is desirable, and the corresponding inclusion of old earmarked grants in the framework grant is deferred. Not even in the trials started in 20 municipalities with earmarks as a frame, there should be some freshness and tension, with real testing of many inclusions in this package. There are disappointing few earmarked grants in the project. Loss compensation is another example of how government parties push problems ahead as long as possible. In fact, a majority are now forcing the Government to consider this obvious problem in the 2001 proposal, but it is certainly small in the last. It would be much more natural and better that the majority had supported our proposal last year, so that you could already get an assessment of how this would end, and get it done already this year. However, we must be glad that the majority now have their eyes up for this to happen. It is known that those who, in the name of justice, were to be better compensated through the new income system have in reality had to pay loss compensation for those who were to have a reduction. This builds up through the phase-in to an amount of NOK 2 billion, and so far nothing has been said about how this should be resolved. Most have probably realized that these increasing discretionary posts are in reality undermining the income system with which the majority were satisfied when dealing with the suspension of the Rattsø Committee. In reality, judgement is in many ways the opposite of the income system. And as judgement is gradually used today, it leads to a decreasing value of the so-called objective criteria. In fact, the poorer or sanctioning means of the county are, to a large extent, ultimately governing the finances of the municipalities. Local democratic freedom to decide on the imposition of property taxes and the imposition of charges is undermined as long as these are premises for the county grant of discretionary means. There is only one minority in the configuration, consisting of the Right and the Advance Party, which clearly indicates that judgement over time should be reduced in favour of objective criteria. Fees and charges should have been more space in the setting. It is particularly important that municipalities are cost-conscious when providing services to their inhabitants. Therefore, it is important that municipalities are effective and use competition to a large extent in order to get the right value for their quality services. It should not at all be such that fees are considered as a source of income for municipalities on a general basis if other sources are drying in. The right-hand proposals for competitive outsourcing, fair VAT compensation rules and responsible auditing to prevent overprices are most relevant in this context. The right is concerned with predictability in the local economy and incentives for local value creation. In line with this, we believe that the taxpayer should be as firm as possible and at least defined at an early stage, as is the case in our proposal in the vote, where the taxpayer for 1999 is continued. The majority are used to wait for the budget for the autumn. Nevertheless, the majority have recognised the importance of local anchoring of municipal tax revenue. From our point of view, this is even more important after the local impact of corporation tax was lost last year. If we combine the removal of corporate tax locally, significant loss compensation, large discretionary funds, significant income bias and falling tax collectors, it is difficult to identify the incentive that would preferably be here for active local policies, to facilitate value creation, to increase tax revenues and to help build the country that way. The continuation of the trend we have seen in the public economy, with ever-increasing growth, can quickly bring us unpleasant side effects. The Labour Party and SV are not concerned about growth in the public sector, and it is also in this setting from these incentives to significant increases in the local economy. However, we feel sure that the Right's contribution over time to the most sober economy has also brought positive factors back to the municipalities. I remember that a tightness that forces lower price growth and limited wage growth in the last year's budget debate was priced at approx. Half a billion there and then. It is worrying that the setting does not allow for major structural changes. Reserves are small, and I am reminded here of the debate we have just concluded on the county council, an institution that some of us see as a demeaning, unnecessary level of administration. That the majority is not willing to go in to wind up the county council is now one thing, but that one is not even interested in looking at an analysis of how the country would appear without this institution is regrettable. This has recently been documented in the debate to which this was referred. This was also documented last year, where the mandate of the Task Distribution Committee could in no way be extended to cover this fundamental issue. The most visible structural footprint left by the majority in this setting is an incentive for municipal aggregation in line with Document No. The 8th proposal by Mr Brustad and Mr Opseth. Here it might not be a footprint, but more of a carrot. Nevertheless, it may make sense that one of these carrots is left. This is also a slight change of course from the government party, with reference to former local and regional minister Queseth Haarstad who clearly indicated that participation in this sort of thing was not close to her heart. The section of the section on breakdown grants has therefore resulted in, or is a direct background for, Document No. 8:53 is annexed to the minutes of case No. 2, and this is therefore also my point of reference in this respect. Finally, I would like to make a comment on the pleasant title of a simpler Norway. The construction reform, as it emerged, was a step in the opposite direction. Now we get a partial evaluation of this proposition, which hopes that the adverse effects will be limited, and that the form field and catalogue wealth will not force too many small companies to fall out. Very well known, there is still considerable frustration in the construction sector and in the industry, and we are waiting for further evaluation of this reform. Introducing the reform, the economic and administrative consequences were assumed to be absent. So it's going to be wrong. Still, construction workers, municipalities and the industry are struggling with significant problems here. Finally, I take up the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e679	Swear J. Hoddevik has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e684	The right has produced the Workers' Party's alternative budget for 1999 with the Right interpretation in writing and in reply to the change in line with Mr Brustad's representative. A repeated untruth will not be right even if it is repeated several times. Now, as the representative Brustad also said, there is a letter from the Ministry of Local Affairs and Regional Affairs confirming what we have said, that there has been about one billion more at the disposal of the municipalities in the current year. Doesn't the Right, as a serious party, see that it's unfortunate to write and also on the pulpit claim an untruth? If the situation were that the Labour Party and the Right agreed to grant more money to the municipalities and disagree on the size, it might have been helpful to explain. But that's not the situation. On the right, transfers to municipalities will be reduced, there will be more competitive outsourcing and privatisation. Then my question becomes: why can't we in the Workers' Party show our policy with credibility, when we accept that the Right wants a completely different way in its policy towards the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e693	It is not unexpected that this breach of opinion between the Working Party and the Right will also be part of the line change here. There is considerable documentation on the part of the Working Party – at least in volume – in the configuration and a counter-comment from the Right. This has also been affected in a previous line change, where our representative said that at best it was about 840 million. kr, and we know, like everyone, that it's almost impossible to grasp the real truth when comparing such different suggestions. I can recall that not even in the debate on the budget in question there was an agreement in this Chamber on this billion of the Workers' Party. But I don't think we can recreate the budget debate from last year. We can agree that the Workers' Party now also in the setting signals a visible increase to the municipal sector, and we will see when we get to the budget, where the distance becomes next year. Nevertheless, the representative Gaundal has pointed out the political proposals of the Right, which have an absolute significance for the local economy, namely that the significant potential of the outsourcing is taken out, because, after all, it is not just the transfer of Norwegian krone that matters to the municipalities. Providing an incentive to organise services in a different way can also give billions, as the last year’s debate clearly demonstrated, and has also been repeated in our remarks here. I do not overlook the fact that the theme of the gap in last year's draft budget can be further elaborated in an article No. 2 from the Right in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e704	I will first give tribute to the Right, which, in conjunction with the Progress Party for the current year's budget, will ensure the implementation of the Community economic proposition treatment last year. It's positive. The Christian People's Party has a strong commitment to living local democracy. For my part, it has been a sad and heavy experience to meet people who experience being mistreated by bodies that have been removed from democratic control and contact. Some time ago I was in Latvia. They held the Norwegian local democracy as a star that they headed for. In this context, the Christian People's Party is concerned, among other things, with: Right will create uncertainty about regional democracy. Instead of discussing the adaptation of regional democracy, for example: the transfer of regional central government to democratic control, the right to the other extreme and the requirement to abolish regional democracy. Is not the Right concerned that the democratic deficit that will then be developed at regional level will lead to the reinforcement of the civil service, which will be a relatively heavy step backwards for the local democracy developed at regional level? Is not Right concerned that the public engagement at state level can be damaged by the reform that Right is now, unfortunately, working towards implementation? For the Christian People's Party, it is very important to retain and strengthen the democratic element in future Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e717	The right has clarified its view of the county councils – that is really what the representative of the Christian People's Party is now addressing. If we had seen any significant side effects about it: I can at the outset confirm that we do not have any. We have seen that the county councils will have to be able to wind up when we get to distribute the tasks differently. This with local democratic drought at state level does not think we can be such a big problem. In fact, we believe that it will strengthen the local government sector; two levels of government in this country will provide both savings and more efficient response without suffering from democracy. We also see that small municipalities are struggling with competence and recruitment. I will not deny that in the wake of the removal of the county municipality there will have to be a restructuring at municipal level, without any concrete proposals. We'll see that as a natural development and as a strength, at least something we don't fight against in any way, like many of our political competitors. So there's probably plenty of local politicians in action in Norway today if we add up the municipal level and the county level. It is not certain that the dividends are proportionate to the effort as seen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e725	Right says SV is not worried that we spend a lot of money in the public sector. No, because there is no growth in the total public sector economy – and not in the municipal sector at all. It's the private consumption that's increasing. It's in the private growth, so the distribution becomes skews and skews. For one area, which I think Right and SV agree a little bit, this is very worrying. It's the school, because the school is funded by the framework funding for the municipalities. And if the municipalities have little money, the school gets old-fashioned and boring and gets hung up on the rest of the community. Interesting, pleasure, more freedom and greater diversity are words that I think Right like, and I think SV likes even better. We're actually going to make it a reality even in public school. But how does the Right – through its municipal economy, which means that municipalities will get less money for the schools – intend to get to a school that will be able to give students an exciting and interesting and not old-fashioned and immature educational offer, which will give them more than $43 to get out of the schoolroom in a year, look out and look at the society that is modern and up-to-date to a very different degree than many of the schools are in the process of becoming? How has the Right intend to get this done with less money? Or is it that there are only some schools, and the private schools, which are going to have an offer that allows the students to become able to master life and the future society, which does not go about sitting and chewing and chewing on a narrower and narrower field, but which is going to learn to master a diverse and exciting and modern society where knowledge can be drawn from many other places than from the school?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e737	It is far from certain that the difference in school priorities in the Right and in the SV is as large as these 9 billion kroner that can possibly be read out of SV's special note. This means that my first response to the reply, of course, is that SV has been a keen fight against the proposals we have had for how to better housekeepers in the public economy. So it's not hard to join the SV's willingness to give priority to school. Our leaders have said this repeatedly – both in the educational and party leadership fraction. So here I think we share concern and priority even though our devices might be different, at least initially. Of course, private school is not a shell word in our eyes, but it is an important supplement, and we are in favour of the comments that we sincerely believe we should be in. There should be no contrast between private school and public school. I think we should recognise that poor local government is a certain danger that the earmarked funds that we have otherwise given in sectors other than school may indirectly have stressed the school sector more than healthy. We must take this seriously at all the political levels on which we operate. So a certain vigilance in the school sector, I think we're going to be allowed to share with SV, but we're probably never going to agree on all the grips. Then it's now so that the state should also know the savings knife to a significant extent. At least overall use of money in the public sector can quickly pose a threat to stability and macroeconomic governance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e748	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e751	I'd like to start with a little anecdote about Petter Dass. That must be true, since I am baptized in his church and the president has been the rapporteur in his municipality. Petter Dass was once to hold the sermon in Copenhagen. When asked what theme he was going to discuss, he was told that he would find a note on the pulpit with the specific theme. For people had heard so many riddles about this priest and would like to test his skill in the field of pretenses. Petter entered the pulpit, found the note, then on the white back, there it was nothing, turned the note, there was nothing. From nothing God created the world, said Petter Dass, and then he held a sermon so committed that the assembly was set as the magic-bound, and no sleep! When it comes to keeping the commitment up in our many and diverse municipalities, it doesn't work with the same tactics: giving a blank note or an empty wallet. We have a responsibility to provide predictable frameworks in relation to legislation, regulations and economics to the Municipality of Norway, and in such a way that we ensure living communities and committed local politicians and residents who thrive and are valued in all our many and diverse rural environments. It is important to remember that the municipal sector is responsible for most public welfare services and employment networks about every four employees. And in recent years, municipal activity has been steadily increasing, not least as a result of several major reforms in the health and school sectors. The centre party is pleased that we have started a proper escalating work in relation to health care and care for the elderly. But at the same time, it is important to recognise that the implementation of these plans is tying up so much financial resources that conversion to a greater proportion of free resources may go slower than any of us would wish. However, it has been added to a real growth in free resources. On the basis of a recognition of the complex municipality of Norway we have, and the different priorities that have been made and the different needs that exist, I am of the opinion that it must be right to work towards a system where the municipalities receive a greater share of their government appropriations as free resources. The Centre Party considers it important to facilitate the provision of services and solutions adapted to the different communities. We have to plan and rule, but we have to always deal with the existing everyday life and reality. I imagine the adventure of the crumbling against the current when the Workers' Party refuses to participate in a redeployment of unused equipment for kindergartens to strengthen the economy of the private kindergartens. So instead of securing existing kindergartens, the Workers' Party will invest in non-existent places. It's an old saying that while the grass grows, the cow dies. It helps so little to want to build new places when you're not willing to secure them already existing. I would like to remind you that behind the term ‘private kindergartens’ there are many good Community solutions: day-care centres, alley gardens and family gardens. More than half of the country's kindergartens are private, and it will therefore be very important to pursue a policy that ensures these further operations. I also think there is reason to commend the Government for the fact that while we have been introduced a reform as cash support, as many families of children have met with great joy, the number of nursery places has also increased net by 3,200 last year. The quality of a society is reflected in how the weakest groups are taken care of. It is therefore very good that the Government has put in place a system to ensure that additional resource-intensive persons receive a necessary and adapted care provision regardless of the family or municipality’s finances. Although the majority of the Committee, including the Centre Party, states that it is reasonable to discuss a universal limit on the municipalities to be covered by this grant scheme, I would like to point out the importance of this being a real grant to all those who come under the definition of ‘extra resource requirements’, with the limitations to be set and that the residence of persons in the country is to be considered immaterial. It is important that families with extra resource-intensive family members also have the opportunity to move and live freely throughout the country. This is about respect for the individual human being and about dignity. Another group that is important to show special attention are asylum seekers and refugees. We're not just going to accept, we're going to take care of them. Many of those who come here as refugees have resources that can be important to feed our society if they have the opportunity. In this context, I would like to refer to the proposal from Marit Tingelstad to build refugee housing according to the model from the OL, where we can move the homes later and use them, for example. to student housing. Finally, I regret that the Workers' Party and the Right will not participate in the price adjustment of the Nord-Norway grant. I think it is terrible that the Progress Party will remove it. This means for my neighbouring municipalities, Rana and Wefsn, 28 million and 15 million respectively. kr. [[The President clubs.]] For my own municipality, that means five million. For the municipality of President and Petter Dass, $8 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e774	The President thinks it is right that it is referred to the President's past, only it does not degenerate. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e779	The center party has been the party that always had more money for the municipalities. In the examination of the 1998 Community economic proposal, they would allocate NOK 3.2 billion more to the municipalities. It was only six months before they got in position. But since the central party came into position, and we got central party councils into the municipal ministry, we've seen little or nothing about the redundancy proposals for more money for the municipalities. Now this could have had its natural explanation, that it was excellent out in Municipality-Norway, and that there wasn't a screaming need for major appropriations from the state. But it's not like that! Kommune-Norge is now experiencing the worst municipal economy since the late 1980s. Deficits are increasing, funds are being tapped, services are being reduced — especially for children and young people — and self-payments are increasing dramatically and e-works shares are being sold to cover operating deficits. The Labour Party believes that there is a need to give more money to the municipalities for the next year, and will be in favour of it. The center party won't be in on it. It is important for example: increasing the free resources so that the poorest are able to avail themselves of the earmarked funds, which are constantly increasing. In the final issue of the Municipal Report, we can read that one of the three centre party rapporteurs is withdrawing from the autumn's election. There are very many in relation to the other parties. Does the representative Kvalbukt think that this may have something to do with the fact that the credibility of the Central Party towards the municipalities is weakened after the party came into government? In the case of kindergartens, as the representative Kvalbukt took up, and the fact that the Workers' Party will not be able to give money to the private kindergartens, it is completely wrong. We have a completely different nursery arrangement. We want to build 12,000 new kindergartens, not 2,500. That is why we must also have money for operation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e792	Here it was also a little bit of a story, if not all the way back to the 1600s. To take the last one, the private kindergartens: I think it's strange that the Workers' Party will spend time building new kindergartens, when in the meantime you risk the existing ones crumbling away, and that the children will stay standing without an offer. It must be easier to redispatch an unused operating grant to existing kindergartens than to add it to unexistent kindergartens. And as far as history is concerned, it's quite right that the Center Party, during the entire previous magnification period when we were in opposition, fought to improve the municipal economy. We pressed the Labour Party, and together with the other central parties, we managed to raise the level of the municipalities to DKK 5 billion for the 1997 budget year. It became a permanent cancellation, from which we still build. But it's true that the municipalities are feeling too bad. And why? As I pointed out in my article, we have also adopted many new reforms in school, health and elderly policies, which link funds. And precisely this strengthening of these sectors means that we haven't been able to give, for example, enough free money. But we have started the escalation for Kommune-Norway. We did that in opposition. Fortunately, the parties that managed to raise the level in 1997 came to government. We're hoping that they'll do their best to stay on, and that the Workers' Party will help strengthen the municipalities. I'm glad they're willing to give more money. But the credibility of the Workers' Party is not quite good when they do what the old-fashioned housewife does and turn the same crown many times, because that's the cash support they want to use – over and over again. When examining the revision last year, they would give the municipalities more money, including: by imposing more taxes on business, with retroactive effect, i.e. using non-existent taxes and deducting DKK 2.8 billion from the cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e805	I will allow myself to confront the Central Party with the noble word of this party to contribute to ‘Simplify Norway’, while at the same time this party is behind one of the most complex legislative changes of the time, namely the latest changes in the Planning and Building Act. All the problems created by this law are strange enough to refer to the Centre as ‘transitional problems’. The reality is that, in particular, the smaller actors are raging over all the unnecessary extra work that this entails. Builders are bankrupt pending the completion of their municipal building applications, the surrender of serious individual construction companies due to a formidable form fields and a rigorous authorisation requirement. In fact, many smaller construction works cost more in municipal handling fees and liability approval than those that contribute to work and materials for the construction itself. And the big construction companies are killing themselves. They get rid of more and more small, caring competitors that give up, and fewer and fewer orcs to start new construction companies. This law, as it is now structured, therefore threatens the recruitment, head shooting and competition in the construction industry. Small construction companies in the districts are laid down, and many take up work in larger companies in the cities. What does the Central Party really think about the new Planning and Building Act and its consequences so far, in the light of the party’s beautiful words about ‘Simplify Norway’? Will the Center Party just sit and look at this development, pull its shoulders and maybe still call this transitional problem? And what kind of knowledge do you have in the Center Party of this law's complicated and costly intervention in the construction industry?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e814	In many aspects of society, we can face contradictions between having the greatest possible freedom or ensuring a good quality offer. And when the new Planning and Building Act was passed by the Stortinget in 1995, it was to ensure good quality of products and well done construction work. But I'm going to agree with Andersen's representative that in many ways it might seem that this law has become very heavy. I've met people who are afraid to apply to set up a little house, if it's just a cabin or a little outhouse. I know that, I know that they exist! Many people feel that it is unfair that those who are so good carpenters cannot be allowed to be builders – so I think there is a lot to do with this law. I fully agree with that, and the Government has realized this for the most part. In a comment on the position, in which the Progress Party is not involved, the majority of the Committee states that they have ‘remembered that, according to the surveys, increasing the number of cases in the municipalities is probably a transitional problem’. But as I said, we can't just guess, we have to know a little bit more. For this reason, the Ministry shall continue its work on measures to simplify regulations and to facilitate the use of forms and other aids. One thing I'm also a little concerned about is that we can't have a paragraph hanging every single case around the country. That's why it's important that we have good case handlers, people who understand what to do. When we get a new law, the case handlers will also be a little uncertain. And if we get clarity in this, I hope we'll get much easier, because it's too heavy today!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e828	The representative Kvalbukt said that the centre party got to a lot when they were in opposition, and I'm going to give it to her right in. They did – very well! However, since they joined the government, there has not been much positive about the local economy and the community services – on the contrary. Debt is rising, deficits are rising, child care prices are rising and excesses are increasing, and it does not appear to be different to the next year. I have not actually discovered that the Center Party has shown a single muscle on behalf of the community since they came into government. It may not be so strange, because they have elected budget-mates who stand for the very opposite of what the Central Party stood for when they were in opposition, that it was important to secure the Community services and that the differences should be smaller, they should be smaller between people, and they should be smaller between the municipalities, and I want to challenge the representative Kvalbukt and the Central Party on it. They wrote it in the Adultås Declaration – they wrote a lot in the Adultås Declaration – and most of what they did there has gone wrong. When they choose budget comrades like the Right Party and the Advance Party, they get the opposite of what they asked for. But has the Central Party intended to continue on this road along with the Advance Party and the Right, and is it so that the party intends to renegotiate the Waxenå Declaration and remove points that there should be less misunderstanding between the tasks imposed on the municipalities and the financial conditions, and that they are in favour of allowing the differences between people to increase, because they are doing so now? How much is the proportion of sickness or kindergarten rates going to increase to next year, with this budget statement and with the same budgetmates that I understand the Central Party intends to stick to in the next year's budget as well?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e838	It was a violently gloomy description of reality from SV's representative. Yes, the Center Party did a good job in the last period. We were involved, as I said, in raising the level in the municipal sector, and we have continued to do an even better job after we got into government. As for who we get the support from: No, the Center Party is quite open-minded like this. It's not exactly who we're working with, but what we're working together on. And we accept the support of anyone when it comes to good proposals for majority solutions. That the differences increase, yes, that's a problem. It's actually the government that has realized and tried to counteract action. The government has been sitting for only one and a half years, but many good, concrete measures have already been put in place to balance the differences. Statistics from the Central Bureau now show that the minimum pensioners have increased their level – it is very important when you want to smooth out, that you start at the bottom, at least it seems to us in the Central Party. And now the Minister of Social Affairs comes with his admirable message; it's going to be exciting to discuss. There I think we should have a lot of suggestions. As far as kindergartens are concerned, we have had a major new reform that shows some innovation, and it is the cash support that has contributed to greater freedom of choice. It has also provided nursery facilities for families who have not previously had facilities for kindergarten. I know that there are many parents who want to be at home with their children, and now that they receive partial cash support, they can afford to have the children in kindergarten two days a week, so that they get a little toy offer. They could not afford that without this support.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e849	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e852	In today's debate on the local economy, there have been a lot of numbers. It sounds like this is whether it's the Workers' Party or the Government that counts correctly, and that the difference of very bad and very good is a few hundred million, or maybe a billion. For SV, this is a much more important and important debate than that. If we're to have a modern welfare state that keeps it up to date, we need to have a quality and a standard in schools, hospitals, kindergartens and social services that are so that most people feel served by them. They can't be poor and old-fashioned minimum solutions that only exist for someone, and not for those who have the money to take care of themselves. The gap between private wealth for the majority and the standard and the quality of public services is becoming too large. It is about to break down the confidence of politicians who are laws and laws and do not keep the promises. And that is a great potential for improvement both in the political environment and in the municipalities. We are getting richer in this country, both state and private, but the municipalities are not getting richer. Some people are also very retarded and getting poorer. So we're going in the opposite direction of what we need, because we actually need more solidarity now. We need more and safer community services, not less. And because social equivalency, fair distribution, political stability and economic development are closely linked, this is also collective reason. I don't think anyone here thinks with their hands on their hearts that it's e.g. offer tenders to cleaners in the municipal sector shall be able to rescue the care of the elderly or to provide us with a good school. It's a completely distorted strategy. Nor can it be that someone believes that we should be able to provide good care for the elderly, hospitals for those who need it or a good school with whom we can meet in the future, when we continue to give tax relief to people who earn over 750,000 kroner, that people who have millions of income tax-free from dividends should be allowed to continue doing so, and that sick people should continue to pay higher and higher self-esteem. Last year, excesses increased by 700 million. kr. What kind of distribution policy is there in the world? So the community economy is about school, the nursing home, the bus, the road and how much one has to pay for the home help and the nursery place – close things, all the things that make everyday life go around for the most people. And people want more and better services, I haven't met anyone who wants fewer and worse services. They want more, and they want quality. They will have modern and good services, and they will have them more adapted to their personal needs than it was before. When waiting time gets too long to get sick home or when school gets too bad, people with good finances ask for private services, and that's not so weird. If, for example: The government and the majority have not realized that school is the most important thing we can do, and that the school is future, so the parents understand it. And parents who have good advice will turn their backs on a school that's not too diverse, too challenging and too stupendous. This is not primarily about technology and more knowledge in narrower and narrower areas, but it is about giving a signal as to what is most important both for our kids and for society. What can create the appetite for life and the joy of work, which can bring about all creativity and make young people and communities expand in diversity and diversity, is positive, because that's what we're all growing in. SV will strengthen the local economy by approx. Nine billion, that's what we put in last year. In fact, the budget line we set is there as the United Nations cover is now revised, so this is not about spending a lot more money than others, but it's about distributing differently. We want less taxes on disease, we want better distribution between municipalities, and we want municipalities to be able to carry out the services people are asking for. It is an area for which the municipalities are responsible, which has received little attention, and it concerns housing. There are many people in Norway who cannot afford to get their own housing, and if we are to do so, municipalities must play an important role and have finances for it. Everyone needs a home. If the local government sector doesn't get better and gets a framework to help with this, we'll go even more winters with people who don't even have the most elementary, that's a roof over their heads.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e869	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e872	: Representative Andersen is very concerned about the development of the municipalities, especially in the districts. SV is very concerned that municipal services should be exposed to competition from one side or the other. They write in their comments that people's expectations of quality and quantity of municipal services are not met if they do so. My first question goes on with the representative in his post: Is the quality and quantity in place today? That's the point. We get to stick to today's situation, and then the expectations of quantity and quality of services are not met. Then I demand the creativity of the Socialist Left Party to find other opportunities to do it instead of through tax increases. The representative, Andersen, was also concerned that they have allocated an extra 9 billion kroner to the municipalities in their budget. They have found it possible to do so, among other things. taxing business quite considerably. Does the representative Andersen believe that District Norway does not need industrial activities and that, by taxing the whole business, they should strengthen the municipalities? I want to ask Andersen, the representative, what is the difference between being employed in the public sector and getting paid from there and picking up his salary from his private business. Is there any difference morally in the question of collecting their wages from the public sector and taking it from the private sector? The consequences of SV's policies will include, inter alia: for a small district in the North Trøndelag called Outer Namdal, which has a value creation of 500-600 million. kr, be that you run away with 60 pst. of this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e885	: SV wants to improve the quality and quantity of public sector services precisely because people want better and more services. In some municipalities and in some places it is good, they should have support, but very many places it is too bad. The government says in the bill that there are differences in income between municipalities that make the service offer different. We want to fix it, and we want to give the public sector an opportunity to provide good quality services. That's the difference between us and the Progress Party. So ask the Progress Party if we're not willing to look at new things. Well, let's look at new things. You have to do things very differently in the future, organize it very many other ways. But SV does not understand that it may be a good idea to use private companies for this, which, in addition to financing the service, must also have a profit for their owners. But we see that there's a lot to learn from some private companies -- you the world, it is -- and it's going to take the public sector inwards and try to take the best from. One of the studies that Regeringa has done, because SV suggested it last year, was to investigate how privatisation has worked in Denmark and Sweden. And the services were a little cheaper in some places, but the price was much worse for the employees – then there will be many bad backs, then there will be a lot of stress, long sick messages, and disability. But that's another part of the budget. It costs money, and the Progress Party tends to see a little when something costs money. The worst thing about it is that there won't be very good services of this in the long term, and there will also be very poor quality of life for those who are going to do these important jobs, whether in school, in kindergarten, in the care of the elderly or in the hospital. There won't be time to talk about the tax increases. But I just want to remind the Progress Party that they increased the tax on disease last year by 700 million. kr. It is taxes on sickness and not on wealth, and it is taxes for those who can bear it less than those who have large incomes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e896	I'd like to give the honor to SV first, which also this year is when it comes to the government's proposal from last year on a freer determination of the tax owner locally. Now it didn't get multiples, so it's not repeated this year, but at least there's a certain lengthy debate that I hope will be able to give results in the long term when it comes to giving local authorities some tools to strengthen local self-government. I would venture the claim that we have never had better municipalities than today. That's why it's a little alarming what permeates SV's comments. I have a good idea that there is too much sewing in spite of the fact that one in the local government sector has actually got an uplift by approx. 10 billion in the last three years. I see that the SV in its comments on page 12 says that the Government's arrangement. ‘is a scheme for poorer schools, more expensive kindergartens... and more unemployed without action’. So to this with ‘tax on disease’. I feel it's trendy to use such a reversion, and that one, when a first has a negative situation, should reinforce it with a new negative element despite the fact that Norway has one of the world's best health systems, most free and most similar. The manipulation is negatively charged, and I feel it's an incorrect way to use words, and I want to ask if SV doesn't feel that this is going to be too negative, that it's going to be double negative, it's going to be exaggeration. It is okay with a awake opposition, it is necessary and can be constructive. But doesn't SV see that there's a positive sparkle in all of this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e908	The most important thing about SV's description is to show that we have the opportunity to do things much better than what we do today. We have a fantastic rich country, we're not poorer in Norway, and it's not that the municipalities have much less money now than they've had before. But it is, as I said, a very rich country, and the population wants good quality of services, and they want more services. So then the question is, would it have been a good idea to do that – or would it be a good idea to increase private consumption, let private wealth increase, let a small minority of people slow down – as it happens now – let things get a little bit worse in the municipal sector, let the proportions of the nursery services go up slowly – it didn't go slowly this year either – let the proportions of health increase, as it is done now? And excesses in health are taxes on sickness, and self-payment in kindergartens is tax on need. SV wants us to pay taxes according to financial ability, and not on need or illness. We think it's wrong. I understand that the representative Gedrem thinks this is a little uncomfortable to hear, but it's actually a reality: Is a sick one, has to pay a tax, and is a lot sick, one has to pay more in taxes. There's a little bit of a roof over there, and that's good, but last year it increased by 700 million. kr. So to the question of whether this is sewing. No, the messages I get from schools that can't afford to get the most elementary, or from municipalities that have old in double rooms, people in the hospital corridor, I don't think of sewing. I see that these are real problems, and I think we can afford to do something about it. We're rich, we could make sure it wasn't like that, and I'm a little surprised that the Christian People's Party doesn't agree with SV in it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e915	The representative Karin Andersen is concerned about the state of the school, and that's good. Now, the equivalent school provision in Norway is primarily a question of whether the quality of the child and young people are leaving school is equivalent, and not whether they have spent exactly as many dollars on the way. I noticed that Andersen's representative formulated the following words: Parents who have good advice will turn away from public school. Yes, it depends on whether the SV and the Workers' Party have an impact on their principle view of fresh oils, because they want to remove the state aid, and then you will be guaranteed that only parents who really have good advice can make use of that offer at all. It would be to invite a classmate to Norwegian school. The Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party oppose the fact that Norway has committed itself through a number of human rights conventions, which make it impossible for us to remove the ban on private school services that the parties really want. But what you can do is just to remove the public support, and thus guarantee that there is only a disappearing small percentage of parents who can make use of the freedom of choice. There is a different approach to the question of services and municipalities than that chosen by the representative Andersen. I could imagine asking: Does Andersen and SV believe that the municipalities and the state are the most sovereign employers in Norway, those who are best able to take care of the employees' wage development, the working environment and other conditions? I rarely encounter public employees who believe they have a good employer. Why in the world is SV then so living afraid to open up competition for the labour force? In all contexts — not least in the case of nurses and teachers — it turns out that there is competition for labour that can lead to wage developments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e926	I'll start with the last one. It is probably true that in many areas, the private sector is more attractive to take care of employees than is the case in the public sector. But to a very small extent, the people we're talking about now are teachers, nurses, caregivers and cleaners. They don't feel much better if they're employed in the private sector. However, it is true – and that is one of the things SV has written a lot about in terms of the local economy – that the public has to take a completely different employer responsibility in relation to employment and pay. Governments are now required to employ several thousand to carry out the reforms in the future. They are demanding skills, they are demanding work, they are exhausting, and there we have to come up with measures that ensure both employment and pay in a completely different way from what we are doing today. But what did we experience when the municipal sector negotiated wage settlements like last year – which were necessary and quite good, but not as good as it should have been? Well, the Government and the Storting don't even compensate for that. If the municipalities are to be able to act as a forward-looking, sensible and modern employer and to provide their employees with a decent wage, good employment and continuing training that requires them to do their job, they will have to cut the services. They have to join classes and lay down nursing homes to get this done. So here I think it's probably right that you have to take inward that you have to have a responsibility for the framework to get this done. It can't be done without either giving more money or cutting services. So there's a question of whether there's only the same number of dollars per. A student who gives a good school. No, of course it's not, but there must be money there. And I think there must be money there so that the school can first of all find a place in society -- be able to move out of school, and not like now that the students are sitting inside, concentrated on nurturing knowledge in a narrower and narrower field.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e933	Before Karin Andersen leaves the pulpit, the president will ask if there are any proposals she intends to make.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e937	I would like to address the suggestions that have been made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e942	Karin Andersen then addressed the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e945	After listening to the debate so far, I have to say that I have heard more about the provision of services and perhaps also about the citizens of the municipalities as customers than I have heard about strengthening the local government and the citizens as responsible citizens, both with duties and rights. The provision of services is important, and it is an important part of the tasks of municipalities. But it must not be overshadowed that local democracy is an important issue and something far more than the question of municipalities as efficient service providers. It is important to have the issue of popular government and local democracy far ahead also in a debate on the local economy. A consequence of being concerned with local democracy and popular government will also be to be concerned with ensuring free income for municipalities, and over time to allow municipalities to have more influence over their income. The question of a certain freedom for municipalities to influence their own taxpayer should definitely be further worked on. At the same time, there is reason to stress that granting municipalities a certain degree of freedom with regard to the taxpayer requires a stable transmission system that ensures the necessary equality and equivalence of the basic service offer and of the basic local government economy. Furthermore, strengthening the local economy in general is also central to the governance of the population. The municipalities and county councils have a central role in Norwegian society. They are responsible for a number of important tasks that are fundamental to growth and education and for well-being in the form of health and social services. The left is convinced that there is a better solution for these different areas that the task of caring for them is linked to the municipalities and county municipalities. It is important that responsibility for these areas is linked to a system where there is closeness between those responsible for the tasks and those responsible for the tasks. And it's important that this is linked to public bodies. We therefore deeply disagree with the Progress Party, which will place responsibility for hospitals, health and education in the state. It will weaken the relationships of the inhabitants with these services and tasks, and we also have no belief that it will ensure a greater degree of equality. In relation to municipalities, the Government’s ‘Simplifying Norway’ project is important. It is a project that will deliver results for municipalities over time. It will be central to the ‘Simplifying Norway’ project to reduce the state-specific regulation of municipalities, which will allow municipalities to reduce the level of detail in their demands towards the inhabitants in the next round. It will give municipalities greater opportunities to see different activities in the context, thus enabling them to improve the quality and scope of the service provision, provided the same access to resources. It will also strengthen local democracy by giving municipalities greater influence on the design of services. It is politically important to protect and strengthen the local economy, and it is good that the government has done so far. In this context, it is important that general economic policies provide a better local economy. It is then important to continue to ensure that municipalities are a real growth in the economy. It's also important here to look at the effect of ear tagging. We have to admit that in the case of earrings, development has partly gone in the wrong direction, and at least not as quickly as it should. We also see the results of the fact that by designating you easily turn priorities without having a full overview. At the end of the day, I want to pay tribute to the representatives Kjell Opseth and Sylvia Brustad for their proposals that have been followed up in the vote. There may be representatives who have not always received praise from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e964	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e967	There was a lot to be strengthened according to the post we heard from the representative of the Left. I hope this does not mean that he even wants to strengthen the municipal monopolies. Since the Left is not a member of the Municipal Committee, it could be a little interesting to find out what the party believes about postponing competition, privatisation and municipal monopolies. There is no doubt that the efficiency of the public sector is quite enormous. But as long as one treats public service production as a kind of protected enterprise that needs to be protected from any competition, what the representative was about – if I don't remember wrong – is about increased efficiency, just an illusion. We simply cannot afford an increasingly gigantic public sector operating under outdated monopoly principles shielded from any brutal competition and which can only turn the bill over to the taxpayers and taxpayers. As a result, we already have the world's highest tax burden in this country. Is it so that the Left will realise that increased competition is a positive element in the efficiency of the municipal sector? And in what areas, if any, does the representative of Hove see that his party can imagine that there are economic benefits from using a tender/rescue procedure?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e979	First of all, I would like to say that at least I want a different concept and approach to these questions than the Progress Party expresses. I do not think the concept of ‘municipal monopolies’ is in any way a favourable gateway to addressing these questions. But at the same time, it is clear that you need to be prepared and positive to see how you can streamline the activities of municipalities without going beyond important values, which I was also in my post. In this context, we are concerned with increasing efficiency through system changes, which can also have beneficial side effects, i.e. what I had in the article on fewer rules and fewer detailed regulations that may prevent municipalities from seeing the different services in a sensible way. This, I think, is definitely going to allow for more efficiency, while at the same time preserving important values, and perhaps also strengthening and improving them. In this context, the Left is also committed to considering both privatisation and outsourcing as a positive contribution in many ways to a better municipal sector and a better system in municipalities. First, however, it must be up to the municipalities themselves to decide this – that is one thing; second, the state must not first tighten up the municipal economy on the condition that there are efficiency gains to be gained here, and thirdly, it is not the sesamic solution to improve the situation of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e988	As the Left is not in the Committee, I need to ask the Left's representative a question about two of the proposals that SV has promoted today. One proposal is to have a stepping-up plan for public subsidies to public transport, so that it can be increased in the long term. Now it's like these grants are inside the framework, so they're there, and it's actually the municipal committee through its arrangements now saying something about how much we're going to bet on public transport in the counties. And we've realized that you've promised a lot here, but you've done little. Each year, a stencil of 54 million has been cut. kr. This year, we're getting rid of it, but we know that prices are increasing, that the offers are getting worse, and that you don't get any escalation plan at all. Could the representative from the Left think of looking a little positive at such a proposal, and in that case he sees the utility of it, so that when we talk about the frame, we also talk about public transport, because it's part of the frame? Now it's totally absent. The second issue concerns the proposal for a funding mechanism for particularly resource-intensive users of municipal services, as it is called. It is multi-disabled people who must have services on a 24-hour basis and who are very expensive. SV has put forward a proposal that municipalities should pay a so-called excess and that the State should finance the rest. Here SV is concerned that the money must follow the patient. This is going to be a kind of piece-of-the-counter financing, because we believe that these people have to have a service offer that is equal year after year, and that doesn't swing at whether there are many people with disabilities in that municipality, whether there are many other things that are going into the frame of judgment, or whether the majority of them suddenly say that the frame of discretion should be small. Then such people will lose their offer. Wouldn't it have been better if we had agreed to the solution proposed by SV, so that these people had received a stable, safe and quality offer year after year, regardless of which municipality they live in?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e995	There were two interesting and important issues that Karin Andersen raised in his reply. Firstly, when it comes to strengthening public transport, it is an area in which the Left has been and continues to be heavily concerned. Of course, there is a certain problem when these funds are within a general framework. That's one of the counterpoints to the fact that when you don't have the eartags, you don't know exactly where the money goes. When you look at eartags in other areas, it can actually be a pressure in relation to the areas that are not eartaged. I cannot promise to endorse the proposal that lies here on the part of the SV in this area, but it is clear that being involved in various measures to improve public transport and the infrastructure on which public transport is also dependent is something that the Left will also be concerned with following up. The other issue is also important and interesting, because there is no doubt that for small municipalities in particular, the relationship could be that people with special needs do not spread evenly across municipalities, so that this is so easily brought into line with the framework grant. I think there's a problem that there's reason to go into more detail to see if there are some things here that can ensure these people a safer life and at the same time prevent them from being viewed in the individual municipality in a way that is a particularly burdensome expenditure post. I think it's a central and important question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1006	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1009	Norwegian municipalities and counties had a total deficit of almost NOK 5 billion last year. This is a huge increase from the previous year. This year, closures of schools and kindergartens are reported, while parental payments in kindergartens and the school leisure system are increasing sharply and school provision is being reduced. Weak students lose their support hours. This is sad. The municipal economic structure of the Workers' Party for 1999 meant a strengthening of approximately DKK 1 billion more to the municipalities than that adopted by the Government Parties, the Right and the Advance Party. In addition, we would redeploy $1 billion between taxpayers and tax-deprived municipalities. It would provide a better financial situation in Kommune-Norway, especially for the tax-deprived municipalities that are the ones that are now hit hardest. We didn't get a majority for that. The Labour Party will also propose for next year to allocate more money to the municipal sector, among other things. by increasing the framework and increasing the free revenues beyond what the Government proposes in the Community economic proposal. In addition, we will redistribute more between the poor and the rich municipalities. It's called irresponsibility to the Mayor. He said in a press release yesterday that what the municipalities now need is predictability. We ask the central party rapporteurs around the country whether they have felt that the municipal policy of the central party councils in this government has been predictable, probably the answer will be no. Among other things, the central party rapporteur, Thor Tøllefsen, on Karlsøy, said the following about the 1999 state budget: ‘For now, a limit has been reached on fraudulent action against the party’s own voters. It is nothing less than a betrayal if the party's government councils are to accept the use of SEK 3 billion in cash support for small children's parents while the districts and the municipality of Norway will be destroyed at the same time." – This was in Nordlys 14 November 1998. The government proposes that, as from next year, municipalities receive compensation related to the particularly resource-intensive users of municipal services. It's set at 310 million. kr to this group, and that's good. However, the Labour Party believes that if these millions are to benefit the particularly resource-intensive users, the criteria must be defined more clearly than proposed in the proposal. Not even the central parties rely entirely on their own government in this matter and will have a word with them in the design of the criteria. A majority of the Committee asks the Government to come back with proposals for criteria relating to the State budget for the year 2000. This is because we in the Workers' Party are afraid that this pot, which is only an increase of 100 million. kr in relation to the past, is too small and will create high expectations in the municipalities that cannot be met. A new report from SINTEF shows that the situation in many asylum recipients in this country is alarming. We have to do something about that. There are today between 13,000 and 14,000 in our reception, including many people who are qualified for vacancies. Following several directives from the Storting department, the Ministry is working to amend the legislation on work permits, so that asylum seekers and refugees can get to work more quickly. But it's taken an incredibly long time. Now it must be allowed to demand that this work be prioritised, and that the legislative changes that are necessary must come to the Storing quickly, so that they can be adopted. In the municipal economy, as in other areas, the government is pushing the problems ahead. This applies, inter alia, to: how the loss compensation scheme is intended to be managed after the end of the transitional period in the income system in 2001. Where is the predictability of the municipalities, for which the Council of State is so concerned, in this matter? The Østfold municipalities were of the municipalities that were to serve on the conversion of the income system. For example, until next year, Fredrikstad will have a municipality. be drawn by 11 million. kr. This will increase further in 2001. If the Stortinge felt that we should have a similar service offer across the country, including the more central East, we need to facilitate it. And then the government man has to get up and make suggestions. Similarly, the Government must come to Stortinget with a review of how Rattsø I and II have turned out for the municipalities, and whether the system has become as we decided. The case rapporteur from the Christian People's Party calls the problems in municipalities challenges between 10 and 15 billion kroner. [[The President Clubs Again]] –
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1033	Time's up!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1037	Today, the municipality is under pressure from several sides, both as guardians of district policy objectives, as an arena for the exercise of local democracy and as a producer of basic welfare services to its inhabitants. District Policy is the task of the municipality to facilitate the continued maintenance of the main features of the housing pattern across the whole country. And local democracy is the challenge of the municipality to maintain its legitimacy as an important political arena for the exercise of municipal autonomy. But the real pressure against the municipality is primarily in the form of growing demands and needs for faster, cheaper, better and perhaps more services. Both in the care of the elderly, health services, schools, culture and technical services, we see that more and more stringent demands are being made both from citizens and from politicians at price, level and quality of municipal services. So the municipality's role as an important service provider for the inhabitants is today under increasing pressure, in the sense that the requirements for both quality and cost in terms of the municipality do will be significantly increased in the years to come. And in my opinion, today's way of organizing and operating the municipalities is just a snapshot that will change through the new demands that are constantly pressing forward in terms of ever faster conversion in the time ahead of us. It is therefore important to be involved in the development of Norwegian municipalities. And we need to adapt our activities as quickly as possible to the ever-increasing demands of change in society around us. And then the question is, is the municipality involved in this development? My answer is: Far from it! It is simply a scandal that a local authority sector that produces important service services of over DKK 200 billion a year is exempt from any economic market impact and competition. When too many politicians are still hampered by ideological barriers, which prevent the acceptance of more markets and more competition in the public sector, this is a last of an old-fashioned way of thinking that we should not take into account in the next millennium. If the public sector is not finally to break its economic backbone, the public sector must be significantly more efficient. However, I have strong doubts as to whether parties other than the Advance Party and the Right are willing to realise that an ever-growing public sector cannot base its activity on a protected monopoly situation for all eternity, where only one can pass on any inefficiency cost to taxpayers and users. Unfortunately, the discussion about the local economy is too much dominated by dry figures on crown pieces or on new cost-intensive ideas. We should make much more of the discussion about the local economy the subject of how to make sure that we get an effective use of each krona that is put into the public sector. Today's system invites municipalities to present their situation as if they only have an income problem. And this income problem is explained by the fact that the state does not follow up with enough money in relation to the tasks the municipalities are charged by the same state. We should also ask ourselves whether it is not the case that municipalities have a systemic cost problem that is caused by the lack of efficiency in the absence of any competition. Which private enterprise could survive in a competitive market with an efficiency at the level of the public average? Absolutely none! In private, cost-effectiveness and logistics have to be put in the high-seat – to the benefit of everyone else. We also have our own competition law for all private activities. And Section 1 of the Competition Act states: ‘The purpose of the law is to ensure the efficient use of society’s resources by facilitating effective competition.’ That's very wise words. But what is the reason why the public sector is exempt from this competition law that applies so strictly to the private sector? Why should we not allow these wise words also to be applied to the extensive production of services, for example. the public sector? What's the reason why we accept a close to 100 pst? the restriction of competition in municipal activities, when we know that these restrictions prevent more solar efficiency and cost benefits to the benefit of both users and taxpayers?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1055	There has been a strange and unusual situation around the treatment of St. pp. No 69 for 1998-99, Om kommunekonomien 2000 m.v. When the Workers' Party was in government, it was an incredibly high level of noise when the local economy was on the agenda. Now it's so quiet that one wonders if everything is just joy and fun in Kommune-Norway. But we know, as has been said before, that many municipalities are struggling with tight economy. For us in the Workers' Party, it is important to stress that the reason for this is not that the older reform is a problem, but that it is the settlement of wages, pensions and, not least, increased interest expenditure that is the cause of local authorities' difficulties. We believe that the older reform should give older people a better offer. Therefore, it is right to give priority to the funds of the elderly with ear-marking, not that they are given as part of the municipality's general transfers. That principle should be firm, even though we are now opening up assessments that can trigger a larger proportion of the earmarked funds. Another area, which is also about health, is services for people with mental illness. Here it is pointed out that we see a fine development of services since we got an earmarked scheme in 1995. However, there is reason to be aware that there is still much to be done, including: in the work on individual, comprehensive action plans, the development of information material, action sites and housing for those groups. Both this reform and the older reform are, as I said, earmarked for action. I think it's right for us to defend that there's some ringing right, even if we're also going to consider some arrangements for next year. I would therefore warn against believing that the local economy in general is improving by including such measures in the framework. We know that average 65-70 pst. the budget of a municipality is bound by wages and salaries and the remaining free resources must nevertheless be given a high priority. So over to a completely different part of St. pp. No 69. This concerns the follow-up to the Law on Planning and Building. The majority of the Committee, in which the Workers' Party is involved, shall meet the Ministry's further work on the measures taken to simplify regulations, forms and other aids. For the Workers' Party, it is important to stress that it is necessary to defend the changes to the Planning and Building Act adopted in 1995. We therefore believe that one should not change the law and its intention until an overall evaluation has been carried out. Some obvious changes may, as I said, be accepted on the basis of unfortunate aspects of the regulations. However, in some disciplines it has also taken note of what the department writes on page 135. These include: the need for a more precise definition of liability rules and the relationship to contracts. Due to limited speaking time, I only have to refer to the notes on Section 98 of Ot. pp. No 39 for 1993-94, on the Law amending the Law on Planning and Building, p. 206. This text must be read with reference to the old legislation, where only one person responsible for everything was responsible, irrespective of the prices of the works. It almost never worked, because the person in charge did not have private law control over all the actors. The real person in charge therefore became the builder. We believe that the law has received a fine wording and will defend it. The background to the question of the impact of the ministry is that the certainty that municipalities can require independent control of critical areas in a construction project can be mutilated far on the road and that ‘independent’ becomes more a word than a reality. It could compromise the quality of the work, which is one of the main reasons for the statutory audit — as well as the fact that a total contractor/main contractor may waive responsibility for parts of the work for which the undertaking is responsible under private law. For the Workers' Party, both of these areas were important when the law was passed, and my wish is that the Council of State confirms that it will continue to be the one carrying out the work, which will be the responsibility under the new Planning and Building Act, which was adopted in 1995.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1078	To start with the question that was asked: Initially, the person carrying out the work is responsible. But this is a rather complicated question, to which I must be allowed to get closer. The government's proposal for a financial framework for the municipal sector in 2000 involves a real increase in income of approximately DKK 2.5 billion or 1 1⁄4 pst. Most of the growth in income is linked to the implementation of the action plan in the care of the elderly and the health sector. A national commitment is needed in these areas. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus in the Committee on the priority of the elderly and health sector. The government is adding up to the continuation of the fiscal policy we have pursued for 1999. However, within a tight framework, provision has been made for a significant strengthening of the income of the municipal sector in 2000. The growth of income will be largely earmarked for the implementation of the action plans for the elderly and health. I want to take this opportunity to give a tribute to all of our 435 municipalities and 19 county municipalities. These are the supports of the Norwegian welfare community, as many have said. They are making a major effort to meet the basic needs of the population for welfare services. There is no need to hide that the local economy is tight in many municipalities, and that many experience tighter economic conditions in 1999 than they did in 1998. At the same time, however, I would like to say to those who call for more efficient local authorities and municipalities that the municipalities have shown a unique ability to make the necessary adjustments to maintain a healthy economy. This has been going on over the years, and no one can claim that the municipal sector has not been willing to change to new tasks over a long, long period of time. I myself have a past that is popular in the municipality and know that it is often a challenge to get this done, and that the requirements for increased efficiency are not of new date. What, then, does the Government do to facilitate everyday life in municipalities and counties? We have signaled that the aim is to limit the use of earmarked grants. This is a principle on which we stand. At the same time, I think it is widely accepted that the implementation of the action plans for the elderly and in the health sector requires a significant strengthening of earmarked grants. Of course, a higher growth could have been desirable even in the free income. However, the implementation of the action plans does not allow this to be achieved within the income growth of DKK 2.5 billion that we have committed for next year. The government is committed to giving greater freedom of action to the local government sector. We aim to come back with proposals to include earmarked grants in the 2001 Community economic proposal. From 2000, the attempt to provide earmarked grants as a framework grant to 20 municipalities is under way. I have great expectations for this experiment, and I hope it will give us knowledge of how framework funding works compared to earmarked funding. Through the ‘Simplifying Norway’ project, we are also aiming at simplifying state legislation aimed at the municipal sector, so that municipalities and county councils are given more freedom of action. Together with the KS, we will also consider a consultation mechanism between the State and the local government sector, which will hopefully help to improve consistency between the tasks of the local government sector and the resources available. I would like to comment on some of the majority comments in the vote. In the case of compensation to municipalities and county councils losing on the conversion of the income system, we will return to the Stortingen in the municipal economic proposition for 2001 with an assessment of how the loss compensation scheme is to be managed after 2001, which is the last year of the transitional period. Then it will be given about NOK 2.5 billion in total compensation over a five-year period, and it is obvious that we carefully evaluate this scheme in good time before it expires. But I want to add at the same time: in my opinion, it will not be possible to drop the loss of compensation without looking at changes in the income system to replace the loss compensation. It will be difficult for a large number of municipalities and it will not be possible to implement it without delay. But we're going to come back to this, as I said. I have noticed that a majority of the municipal committee also asks the Government to come back to the Stortinget with proposals that municipalities that join together will not receive reduced state transfers as a result of the municipal merger. The government has also been asked to assess the duration of this operation. Of course it will be done. I am also pleased that the Committee emphasises the importance of the rapid entry of asylum seekers and refugees into work and the rapid arrival of residents in a municipality. The Government has recently proposed and implemented a change to the rules on work permits for asylum seekers. In the past, they had to have lived in Norway for four months before applying for a work permit. As from Tuesday of the next week, asylum seekers can obtain a work permit as soon as the interview has taken place. In the past, it was also the case that asylum seekers had to have a specific job offer before they could apply for a work permit. Now it's no longer necessary. The new regulations will make it easier for asylum seekers to get out of isolation when they stay in reception for a long time while the asylum case is being dealt with. Fast settlement is an overall goal of the Government. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has regular contacts with the Local Governments’ Central Associations to discuss measures that contribute to faster settlement. This year we are facing a significant challenge in view of the large number of refugees to be settled in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1109	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1112	The representative Kvalbukt said earlier in the debate that the Central Party was open to prejudice, that it was not so careful who the Senter Party cooperated with – it was the policy that was crucial. Then I have to ask the Council of State: does it mean that the Government is satisfied with the situation in today's Municipality-Norway, and that one believes that the Right Party and the Advance Party have a good policy for the municipalities? Does the Council of State think that, as proposed by the Labour Party, about DKK 1 billion more for this year was unnecessary for the municipalities? We know that the situation for many municipalities today is very difficult. Kindergarten development is the lowest in over 20 years, prices go to the worst, so is the school leisure scheme, private schools are approved over a low shoe, while many of the public schools are degraded. Is the Council of State satisfied with this development? Does the Council of State really mean, as he says in a newspaper post to which it is referred, in the nations today, that the Workers' Party is irresponsible when we signal that we will give more money to the municipalities for the next year as well? Should not the centre party leader also be concerned with ensuring the best possible framework conditions for the municipalities to ensure the provision of services, especially for children and young people, who are now being hit, and also look at the parties with which he could get it? My question is: Will the Council of State continue to cooperate with the Right and the Advance Party, a cooperation which will not mean a better situation for the municipalities, and which will in no way mean a better service provision, especially for children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1121	Of course, we are interested in cooperating with those who can make sure that the government gets the best possible impact on how to solve problems. I have said that the Workers' Party's approach is irresponsible given that the reason we are dealing with the municipal economic proposition in the spring is precisely that the municipalities should have the greatest possible predictability in relation to their budgetary treatment in the autumn. It is not added through the Workers' Party's arrangements, where it is said to have an increase in the framework in line with the Workers' Party's proposal for the current year. They also say to increase the free money, so that you can make use of the earmarked grants. We need to increase our financial autonomy. The working party shall also bet further, inter alia. health, school leave, kindergarten and school. To be honest, the Workers' Party's laws do not go into any jumps at all. There are no concrete promises about where the framework should be, but there are a number of proposals to be resolved within an already – I think we have to agree on – tight framework. In fact, most of the proposals now being promoted by the Workers' Party do not reduce the level of designation. It's increasing. In the three areas of school leave, kindergarten and health care, it is likely to lead to increased ear marking, not reduced. Then it's true that kindergarten expansion is low. That of course gives cause for concern. I agree with Mr Brustad on that. But it's not really the kindergarten development that's crucial. What's crucial is how many there are that don't get space, and what it looks like in relation to kindergarten development. The reduction in kindergarten development has several reasons. It has, among other things, the coherence with the implementation of the 6-year reform, which has been largely supported in this room, where the need and demand for kindergartens were reduced. With regard to the growth in the income of the local government sector, which the Labour Party has criticised the central parties for not taking seriously, it would be sufficient to recall that in this proposition, it facilitates a real growth of DKK 2.5 billion, or 11⁄4 pst. It's not a negligible growth.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1132	We are aware that the Council of State in a look-up in the Municipal Report signals that he has intended to change the income system, and that one has intended to cancel Rattsø I and Rattsø II. I just want to signal that it will go against the Progress Party. It might be interesting to know if the Council of State is also going to change the corporate tax. It's known that last year, when we dealt with it in connection with the municipal economic proposition, the central party had a big problem here in the hall following the Government and the Labour Party in that the corporation tax was to be deducted from the municipalities and become a state tax. This has led to the poor performance of many municipalities, and the incentive to address problem settings itself has fallen away. There are some district municipalities that may have felt the most, and not least that the loss compensation does not cover what is lost. It might also be interesting to know how the Center Party looks at launching even more municipal services than it has done today, especially in the heavy sectors. So, in his article, the Council of State is talking about predictability. Then I would like to ask the following questions to the Council of State: What is so ‘foreseeable’ that the Storting and the Government today do not determine the tax owner for the year 2000?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1143	It is true, as I have also said in my speech today, that a loss of the loss compensation for the municipalities that are most affected, in my opinion, will not be possible to carry out without at the same time causing a dramatic fury on a number of small municipalities in that country. I actually don't think anyone in this room wants that, and I think everyone agrees that it has to be seen as a substitute for the loss compensation scheme when it fails. In my opinion, we have two choices: either to continue loss compensation into the future or to look at the necessary changes in the income system. The development of the local government sector in terms of distribution, level of income, etc. must be closely monitored in the future, and the level of income must be considered in relation to the tasks to be undertaken. Change in company tax was adopted one year ago. It is not planned to make any changes on the part of the department. The skater isn't being determined now, but the frame, that is, the total growth, is being determined. Thus, the municipalities have predictability. It may be assumed that the growth of income will be in line with what the Government signals in the proposition. So to the issue of competitive outsourcing. In fact, I do not believe that the path proposed by the Progress Party is the solution to the challenges of the local government sector. On the one hand, the Progress Party says that the municipal sector should be given greater freedom of action, local democracy strengthened. But at the same time, on the other hand, it is said that all the big, heavy tasks are to be transferred to the state and taken care of by means to follow the individual user. In other words, it is the small, insignificant tasks that remain to safeguard municipal freedom of action, which the Progress Party is committed to increasing. That's one side of it. I think, like very many other speakers who have spoken today, that the efficiency gains we have seen in the municipalities over a long, long period of time suggest that it is still possible to make improvements in any organization – rightly enough. It may as well be maintained within a public system as within a private system. I am absolutely convinced of that. I don't think it's close to the gains the Progress Party is making by putting out competition.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1156	One of today's political news is that at least the Council of State gives a personal view of loss compensation. That means that not all expectations remain to the next proposition, and good is to the extent that. However, there is still curiosity in the hall as to what this will lead to. That the loss compensation cannot be cut across, we have been told clearly. What is a fact, however, is that it has built up a couple of billion dollars as a likely standing discretionary spot, if not other signals are given. My question to the Council of State is, in the wake of what has already been said, should more objectivity be introduced into this system, other and modified objective criteria, so that the judgment pot can go down? It is an expectation, at least in a large minority, that the discretionary pot should be able to shrink. We're clarifying this because it's so hard to figure out incentives for effort locally. Self-employment is not premiered. As long as the country goes reasonably well, the municipalities will get what they need, no matter how they stand. At least there can be one interpretation of the message being given. That worries us, of course. We believe the opposite: if you have a tax collector to deal with, and you can enjoy your own grip and your own rise, you can also be with local and improve the offer where you need it. The size and inspiration of the pot for value creation locally is my main demand in this reply.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1167	The arrangements for this, as I said in my main post, will come back to me in connection with the municipal economic proposition for 2001. It will not be possible for me to answer today how to solve this. What I think is a fact that can just as well be established, is that it will not be possible to carry out the loss compensation for the municipalities affected without having dramatic consequences. Either the loss compensation has to be maintained or other mechanisms have to be found to ensure a loss of income that these municipalities will notice if the loss compensation disappears overnight. I disagree with the representative, Hoddevik, that maintaining the loss compensation will lead to these municipalities not converting to the necessary degree. Now I think it's as simple as you're going to go in and look at what kind of amounts of money it is we're talking about here that will fall away for many small municipalities. It is not possible to obtain a change in operation to compensate for loss compensation loss. I believe that predictability should also be provided and created as early as possible to these municipalities that the loss of income must somehow be compensated. Then, of course, you can ask if you're earned maintaining an income system over time that has so many embedded weaknesses that you have to operate more or less with an eternal loss compensation. I don't want to speculate about that today, but I will, as I said in my post, at least facilitate that these municipalities will not have the loss of income to which it may be due if the loss compensation is cancelled.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1179	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1182	It is a bit remarkable that the new Council of State, Enoxen, until those degrees are in the defensive position when some parties now say that action will be taken for children and young people. Governments have not only undergone a change, but almost a change — in a very short time. However, I am pleased that the school has been the topic of this debate, including the cases where public schools are degraded and laid down while the private school becomes the secondary school with automatic state grants. Johan J. Jakobsen is due to have the honor that on behalf of the Center Party he believes that a person must get a better solution to this than is the case today. However, I would like to focus on another aspect of the school situation, during a period when we can see that the local economy is more than laborious. The Minister of Local Affairs believes, after what we have heard from him so far, that this is not the case, and at the same time talks warmly for more free money for the sake of local self-government, but without actually doing anything about it. It is more than surprising, however, that the ENOXEN State Council also recognises that education policy has a balance with how much you can leave to the individual local environment in order to ensure that you maintain an equivalent school offer regardless of where your children get their education in this country. Because it also determines our school laws, that the education offer applies to everyone. The government has just provided a big message – «Towards a Richer Goal» – where the government determines that there is no need to do anything about the income system, and that the differences between municipalities are no worse than that we can live with it. This may mean that students are regarded as averages and percentages, but the reality is that measures for children, whether in kindergarten or school, some places are weakened. It appeared in an interpellation that was promoted here last year by Einar Olav Skogholt. The situation in a pagan municipality was so bad that the parents went to action and kept their children at home, among others. because the school did not have the funds for the statutory measures and could not even use the new swimming pool because they did not have enough adult capacity. State Council Lilletun then referred to a state report. It has now been presented, but no changes have been made. Now several municipalities, schools and parents report similar relationships. Norsk Lærerlag has undergone 199 municipalities, and several municipalities face complaints from their parents, because existing special education provided by expert judgement is being reduced, although the situation for both needs and students is the same. Similar conditions may refer to teaching timepieces, sharing hours, mother tongue training, and in some places there is no opportunity for students to be eligible for sick leave. What I'm talking about are areas where students have rights under existing school laws. This led to the fact that last week, on the same night as the committee gave a vote on the above-mentioned announcement, to TV2 – which had a broadcast from More and Romesdal, where the school appropriations had been reduced because the municipality had to pay a share in order to take part in government funds to complete the older reform – was very clear, I think, that something had to be done, which he later said from this pulpit. I think we all agree that one cannot continue to have these inequalities. We all have a responsibility for that. And since the Lilletun Council signaled that something had to be done, it is natural to ask the Council of State with the municipal and regional responsibility for what measures the Government now has to assess.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1195	The most pleasant thing about the position we are dealing with today is that there is a broad majority in this Chamber that joins a line of argument that has long been used by the Right, namely that a tight fiscal policy is a very important contribution to the municipalities as generous with promises of increased transfers from the Stortinget. There is every reason to put two lines under the majority remarks in the year’s position on the meaning of ‘the State budget is designed to provide room for low interest rates and low price increases’. We know from various statistics that, overall, municipalities have liabilities that far exceed claims, in such a way that 1 percentage point of interest falls is 400-450 million. kr in increased ‘subsidies’ to the local economy. If the price increase is reduced by an estimated 0.5 p.p., as we are likely to achieve at the autumn budget settlement, the local government budgets will be worth around 900 million. kr more. With that understanding from the bulk of the population, it is fortunately not the great overcharges in this setting, if one ignores the SV's implied frame of 9 billion kroner extra. So let me just briefly return to the dispute with the Workers' Party about what their arrangements involve. So they claim that the state budget would strengthen the municipal economy with about $1 billion. But first of all, you read their own table layout in connection with the comments in the chapter. 2.2, one will see that the difference in total income is, at best, NOK 840 million. In this figure, there is reported to be a substantial increase in the use of elderly people, education and kindergartens, and some additional free resources for municipalities. But it underscores point number. two: in the 840 million. So kr is 250 million. kr in additional appropriations for kindergartens, but as has been mentioned earlier in the debate, there is a big question as to whether these would be used with the lack of demand for places that we now see in the municipalities. So the Workers' Party proposed another 153 million. In addition to the action plan for the elderly, there was no disagreement on the targets for the reform, but on whether the municipalities would ask for this money in the year’s budget. Finally, the Labour Party proposed 132 million. additional to the school leisure scheme in relation to the adopted budget, but these are funds which one expects will not give greater financial space to the municipalities, but which the Workers' Party is likely to wish to be passed on directly to the parents in the form of reduced own-payments in the scheme. Already with these three clarifications, the Workers' Party's total, real added effort to the municipalities can be reduced from 840 million. NOK to something over 300 million. kr. It's far from a billion. So to a line exchange that I had with Sylvia Brustad. There was not much untruth in the numbers I presented for free money to the municipalities. The figures for appropriations include: to Engerdal with an extra NOK 152 000 and Bergen with SEK 3.7 million. extra net refers to the figures obtained in the exchange of letters between the Ministry and the Workers' Party. From the municipal economic proposition, I would also like to point out that it is disappointing that a majority in the hall clearly regard municipal economy as a relationship between the state and the municipality, while the inhabitants are forgotten or considered as an item in the accounts. Last year’s debate, the representative Leif Lund pointed out that ‘the Labour Party believes that several municipalities do not take advantage of the high level of income they have through the use of property taxes’. Property taxes are not limited to power companies, businesses and coffers. There are also older people with low incomes who have housing, and residents in residential flats of modest standard who pay property taxes. In the case of fees, I will refer to what the department writes, with the warning to cancel the fees this year, not because it will burden the inhabitants, but because it will ‘help to clear out the potential for an additional increase in income’. The majority have not taken into account the need to focus on municipalities as a tool for putting citizens in the centre. In the case of loss compensation, I would like to stress, on the basis of the reply of the Council of State, that no more objective criteria for distribution between municipalities have emerged from any of the lots than those in the follow-up to the Rattsø facility and the income system there. The loss compensation scheme that will be fully implemented in two years' time amounts to NOK 350 per person. integrates into the population grant, which can be multiplied by the number of inhabitants in each municipality. There remains a response from the Department on how this is to be done. Finally, we are pleased that a majority in the vote on the revised national budget is correcting the distortions in the drive towards the metropolitan grant towards Oslo. The draft budget shows that Højre's warnings against removing the corporate tax of the municipalities were correct. Now, when we don't make any suggestions to reverse this, it's because we don't want to record lost impacts, but it's clear that the compensation to the municipalities that lost on the conversion of corporate tax can be short-lived.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1218	When we discuss local economy, there will be a lot of discussion about which parties will most, who do most, or who have done most to strengthen the municipalities' economy. My contribution to that debate is limited to establishing that there is a significant divergence between what the government parties promised in the opposition and what they are now implementing in the government position. It's in and of itself old news. However, I would like to point out the particular challenge facing our society through the fact that we are geographically a long-distance country. Thus, large parts of our country are referred to as districts, in the sense that they are located a bit from the more urbanized and densely populated areas. A clear trend over a long time has been that people move from the districts and into what we call the central areas in everyday terms. This, of course, is not a good development, and it is particularly difficult when we can record that it is the youth who primarily leaves the districts. This trend, or development, the current government parties assumed that they would stop quite immediately when they got in position – yes, more than that, they would reverse the movement flow. So far it hasn't happened. From this situation I have a very strong understanding that access to resources, employment and services etc. in the districts is very important. But it is also an undeniable fact that these people who move from the districts are moving to another place, and this new place must also be able to set up with the offers that people are to have. Akershu County – not quite randomly chosen of course, but I mention it primarily because this county has the most sovereign population growth – has grown from the last time we had this debate, i.e. last June, until now, by 7,500 people. During the ageing period we're in, Akershus has grown by 30,000 people. It's equivalent to a pretty big Norwegian town. All these people are required to offer health care, education, care for the elderly, etc. This is the other side of the municipal image. While the school facilities are being emptied in the districts, new schools need to be built in the central districts. Akershus — to use it again as an example — in the first few years into the next millennium, it will take some time. 4000 new places in secondary school. Now one could probably wish for a different development, but this is the reality, and if all residents of the country are to be able to offer equivalent offers, this reality must be captured in a better way than is the case today. Now, when the Council of State almost signals wanting to reverse Rattsø, that's probably something we're going to have to engage in a pretty strong debate. I believe that we need to be able to address this kind of discussion and debate without being perceived as a district enemy. I think we're going to have to put behind us the kind of rhetoric that we've had for quite a few years. A good rural policy that can lead to the possibility for those who want it to live anywhere in our country, and that the offers that need to be further developed, have our dissident support. We also see, of course, that many of the offers to be established and maintained in the districts must necessarily have a higher price tag than the corresponding offers in the central districts. We have no expectation that public budgets in the central east region will reflect the same amount per cent. population as in the districts. But we have a expectation that they will have such a design that the offers to be made are almost identical across the country, both in terms of capacity and quality. Now I don't think there will be many who find this requirement unreasonable, and I have great expectation that the angle in the local economy will be able to take care of these conditions in the future. Finally, I must also say that one thing is the population growth of the central strata. The second is the speed this has, so that the investments that have to be made do not come as a consequence of a long planning, but they come relatively harshly on. This means very much borrowing. This means large financial costs, which in turn reduces or weakens the rest of the operating budgets in that part of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1239	There is reason to be concerned about the development of the local economy. Not that the transfers have not increased, but the revenues of the municipalities are out of proportion to the tasks to be resolved. There is a basis for saying that the government’s financial arrangements for municipalities and county municipalities further exacerbate a difficult economic situation. This will go beyond both the provision of services and the action space for elected representatives at municipal and county level. At the end of 1998, the local government sector had its weakest operating performance since the mid-1980s. For example, more than half of the municipalities have: the need to balance their operating budgets using funds, and the deficit before loans has increased from DKK 1.8 billion to DKK 4.2 billion from 1997 to 1998. Municipalities-Norway will have signals of real growth, but the vast majority of the small growth proposed by the Government comes in the form of earmarked grants, linked to state-adopted action plans that municipalities have to follow up. Grants require municipal ownership, and in order to find them, municipal politicians have to cut down on other areas, financed by free income. It is often frustrating to cut the state budget, but the space for action we have is considerably better than that of the municipalities. The government parties produce the economic situation in the municipalities that is far better than it really is. It in itself is unfortunate and creates expectations that there is no economic basis for fulfilling. In addition, the local political space and thus the local People's Government are weakening. There is reason to recall the significant promises made by the government parties to increase municipal economic freedom – and then to make the opposite true. Kindergartens and school leisure schemes have become more expensive as a result of the government’s economic policy, or rather because of the government’s budgetary agreements with the Progress Party and the Right. Increased investment in private schools at the expense of public schools together with a tight community economy and cash support will gradually weaken the supply of children and young people in terms of diversity and quality. It is the young people who are sacrificed to keep the government of Bondevik alive. I'll do an example. My daughter, she's a nurse, has two children in kindergarten, student debt and almost a new house. The nursery expenses are NOK 6 200 per day. months. It's not nice that it feels unfair. Therefore, it is of great interest which signals the government parties will give to the municipalities. Can we expect government parties to say: don't plan new cuts in kindergarten development, and don't plan higher parental payments? I'm not the one to answer that. If the Municipal Council of the Workers' Party for 1999 had been adopted, the municipalities would have had a good amount of NOK 1 billion to travel with. Most people expect the municipal service to be there when you need it, and it should be good too. Therefore, there is reason to mention that if the arrangement of the Progress Party for the municipal sector had been adopted, the municipalities would have had almost NOK 8 billion less to go with in framework transfers, with the consequences for the service production it would have. The Labour Party has already proposed more money for the revised budget to the municipalities. In the course of the budget procedure for the autumn, the Workers' Party will again propose to increase the free movement of municipalities. We think that's for the good of everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1261	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1264	What often strikes you in local politics, whether at municipal or county level, is how often most parties dissociate themselves from any knowledge of their party traps in this room. It is said that the «State authorities» have determined, the «State» has determined, as if decisions that are not important to the Municipality of Norway are taken by their own party traps here in Oslo. I have no problem recognizing SV. The reasons for the other parties' speech are obvious. Instead of strengthening economically what the batches promise or want to implement locally, large funds are being used to subsidise those who already have the fat. All parties say that school and education are important, yes, even the most important thing. In a report in Stavanger Aftenblad for some time back, the contrast between those who have, and those who have not, was clearly shown through the situation of two family members. A father, who worked in a bank, moved in bright, well-equipped rooms with plenty of space. The progeny is placed in a crowded classroom with a poor indoor climate, a workplace without the necessary textbooks and reference works, which is a ‘must’ to follow up the ambitious curriculum. The situation is too many places in the municipality of Norway. These days, schools decide which students they can afford to buy new books for, and who needs to cope with old, outdated teachings. Perhaps the bank or oil companies are also scrapping some IT equipment, so there are fewer students per year. machinery when random crumbs are distributed – a cross of thought in relation to what is to be done with investments in Fornebu. For example, in order to finance important municipal tasks: those washing, who are now to become dairy cows. They are sent out on tenders – these low-wage, hardworking cleaners, usually women. When I see the local eagerness as for example. The Christian People's Party shows that cleaners will become a new source of income, I am tempted to suggest that the party establish a new value commission – for cleaners. At that time, perhaps you would be told how important their efforts are, not least in school, where they are also very important caregivers. At least I am horrified by the economic development in Kommune-Norge, which so little values it completely, especially for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1277	As the end of this debate on the municipal economic proposition for the year 2000 approaches, one can conclude that the scheme presented by the Government, which is now largely multi-faceted and consolidated, is a relatively good approach and a good follow-up to the Government's objective of strengthening the municipalities. It is a good framework that is tailored to the basic needs for economic growth in Norway – control and stability and reduced interest rates – and will benefit not least from the local government sector. There is also a very small opposition plugin that is mentioned here today, although the amount is a variable. We hope that, in the future, municipalities will have greater freedom, and we will take concrete steps to achieve this. I believe that the time for heavy reforms in the municipal sector, which are state-initiated, should erode. We should get a flare of the skippers and the bets that have been. Many of these are positive, but they've got the frame skew. For example, the municipalities that have fulfilled their obligations and have built up these supplies that the government is running out of such a situation. This will lead to responsibility for the municipalities. This with freer frameworks and freer relations to laws is essential to strengthening local democracy. Not least, the reform that the 20 municipalities should benefit from now, with a greater exemption from central ear recognition, is positive. I hope that, in its time, this will allow all municipalities to enter these schemes relatively quickly. I also feel that KS should be a conversation partner in the future, and look forward to this with excitement. Municipal boundaries must be evaluated. The party's concern that no municipality could survive if one had not protected them from competition, I saw a big question mark. However, in some areas we seem to have to take this step in order to meet the need for efficiency. Transfer is now in the process of turning. We had 8,000 last year moving. There's a 2,000 reduction from the previous year. It is a joyous development, and everyone should be able to stand back and strengthen the efforts of the special tools. And I hope that everyone will participate in strengthening the district industry, so that people can stay there. Finally, I would like to express my joy at the fact that the Council of State Lilletun will take action for the PP situation, which has long been precarious, and which has not previously been followed up by a corresponding effort that the Council of State has now announced.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1292	The members of the Committee of the Right and the Progressive Party point to the fact that in many municipalities a political majority puts its own ideology and commitment to organised interests in the highest-ranking over those groups that are dependent, of good, publicly funded services. This is a comment that I want to make concrete. My central eastern municipality has been governed and dominated by the Workers' Party for most years. The Labour Party has obtained a majority in its budgetary policy. Today, the situation is that the municipality is without any freedom of action. All boxes are empty, all funds are almost exhausted. The loan debt is very large. Nevertheless, efficiency and rationalisation have not been central to the policy pursued. It's been quite absent. There is very little willingness to use competitive outsourcing as an instrument. There is very little willingness to allow others other than the public to operate more cost-effectively. On the contrary, budgets have been adopted in recent years to maintain all activity. Then you don't deal with anyone, neither organizations, trade unions or other press groups. You're a safer. In my right-hand eyes, this is a completely wrong policy. When you don't want to make any changes, don't make any re-priorities, there's going to be tight financial conditions in the municipality, and you can't do any new tasks that need to be solved. Nor is it possible to focus on the most important tasks, such as school, health and care for the elderly. I miss a more comprehensive view of the Labour Party's policy. I miss a greater willingness to look at their own organisation and operation of the municipality rather than just talking about increased funds. I don't think there's any reason at all to dramatize, as the Workers' Party does today, with its great concern for kindergarten development. Six-year-olds have been taken out of kindergartens and into school. Residual sites are offered to new age groups. The cash support gives parents freedom of choice. We are still in a transitional situation, which does not mean that an uncritical person is going to build more kindergartens. The aim must be to meet all needs, not to leave all children in public kindergartens. It is misunderstood that all children should be raised by the public.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1303	It can't be easy to be a municipal minister in this central government once you have chosen the alliance partners you have. When the municipal minister was a general member of the population in the previous period, it was reported, among other things. settlement with the worker party government at the time, where the municipal economy was the most important premise for that type of settlement. I also noticed that yesterday, in a TV debate, the Prime Minister received income for how good the municipal structure is, a budget settlement that was made three to four years ago, which had an amount of NOK 5 billion. And that's right, at the time, a budget settlement of NOK 5 billion was made, of which SV was also part. So it must be pointed out several years later as this government’s great victory for the local economy – what was achieved when one was in opposition in the Stortinget. What is said about the municipal economy next year is relatively discouraging. It is clear that the municipalities can see very tight times in meetings, and that in the 1990s there has not been as bad a situation with many municipalities as it is in the year 2000. It is also quite discouraging to think that we have a central government that has had a municipal economy as its heartache for many years, which has 148 rapporteurs – if I don't remember completely wrong – plus a bunch of county rapporteurs who now sit and manage the Municipality of Norway in a way that is actually worse than the Workers' Party, of which the Central Party was the sharpest critic, did in the last period. It would be interesting to hear the sincere opinion of the Minister of State on these issues. Because if you look at this from the outside, there's only one conclusion you can draw from it, and that's that the Center Party achieved more in opposition than what they do as part of the Government. I feel quite certain that if the centre party had been in opposition here in the hall, they would have supported today a lot of the comments that SV has, and the posts that SV has made, both in terms of the municipal economy for the next year, and in terms of the revised national budget for the current municipal budget. There we are left alone – the Labour Party has a modest addition. It is possible that, in yesterday's debate, Thorbjørn Jagland did not realize that the revision was about 1999 and not in 2000, but left it. Anyway, at least the Center Party, based on all its history, should have been with us. That is why I have to allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Municipalities – now that Stortinget has restricted our possibility of a direct reply to the Minister for Municipalities, so I use this three-minute post for it: Is the Minister for Local Government satisfied with the company he has now been in? Because I am not a moment in doubt that the Central Party in its heart would like to have made a settlement that helped Norwegian municipalities to improve their finances. But when you choose alliance partners, bed partners, here in the Stortinget, called Right and Advance Party, you know what you get. Then you get cuts in the common consumption, you get nothing else. That's why I might have thought of asking Odd Roger Enoxen – if he can allow himself to be frank: Is the Council satisfied with the partners you have chosen to go to bed with?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1322	I am going to angle a problem that has been absent, absent from the message, in the setting and in the debate – with the exception of SV. I take from the basis of this government and the Adult Declaration, where it says: ‘Central government will give priority to public transport rather than private car transport in cities and agglomerations. The provision of public transport needs to be improved in terms of travel time, more frequent departures and comfort. Prices must be actively used to promote the use of the public transport offer.’ Now public transport is part of the framework transfers, and with a magnifying glass, SV is looking for what the central government would propose – how they would follow up on their own statement. There is not one single word in the proposition about how the central government would give priority to public transport, how to increase the quality of travel time, more frequent departures and comfort, and how to use prices to promote the use of the collective offer. It is stated in the Declaration that the Government is to do. In the proposition, we found the total silence. In this setting, only SV care about public transport. When we dealt with the road plan in my committee two years ago, a unanimous committee said: ‘The Committee believes that public transport must take a greater part in the growth of transport. The Committee would stress the need to strengthen public transport in urban and urban areas in the interests of environmental and transport development. The Committee would also point out the need to maintain a satisfactory minimum offer in the districts in the interests of the large groups which do not themselves dispose of cars.» These were good goals of a unanimous committee. But it's the municipal committee that stands for the money, and they don't mean anything. It is surprising that it is possible to be silent on such an important field as the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Committee supports. I'm tempted to say, as it sounds in a children's song, "Are they" not strange? Aren't they nice? I don't think they'll see it until I see it." But I've seen it; it's nothing. Not even the report from TØI, which shows decreasing efforts on public transport and reduced customer base, makes the majority of the committee wake up to think: this is the opposite of our objectives. I would like to refer, in particular the Centre and the Workers' Party, to the proposal submitted by SV, where we ask the Government to propose a stepping-up plan for state subsidies to public transport. It is a proposal that must lie at the heart of what is the Adult Declaration, what is the Committee's comments – well, to note from another committee, which does not have money but has views on public transport. So I would find it very amazing if the center and the working party – and for that part right – would go against the proposal submitted by SV. I'm very excited about a reason if they say no to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1348	I drew myself on the list of speakers after hearing the Torbjørn Andersen Progress Party talk about efficiency and competitive deployment in the municipalities, and better use of the resources. In particular, it was tempting to take the floor after hearing the Progress Party in free dressage outside the Stortinget here today against those who had met from Askim, regarding the local hospital. For what is the Advance Party's desire in relation to the municipalities and county municipalities? If you look into your own budget, they want to remove the income-equilibrating subsidies to the municipalities by NOK 2.65 billion, the North Norway grant is going down by $300 million. kr, the regional grant of 140 million. NOK 1,2 billion shall be removed from the discretionary grant to the municipalities. As far as county municipalities are concerned, 2.4 billion are to be removed from population grants and cost-balancing. Removed in income-balancing subsidies, NOK 1.6 billion. This is called the Progress Party for efficiency and rationalisation, and then the same party manages to stand in front of the Storting and promise gold and green forests in relation to hospital operations, in relation to the county municipalities and in relation to the local offer. It is clear that the election campaign has begun early. But I think there's got to be a limit on how to lead the local people behind the lights. It is obvious that if this budget had been adopted in the form available from the Progress Party, there would of course be more efficiency and a reduction in costs would be achieved. But that would be on the war rations one would then run the county councils and municipalities, it would be at the expense of the service provision to the population, and it would be at the expense of the local hospital provision to the population. How could you run an Askim Hospital based on the appropriations that the Advance Party is operating with? How is it to be able to maintain a structure in the health sector, in schools, in kindergartens, on all that the population needs in the municipalities, with the draft budget presented by the Progress Party in the context of the 1999 state budget? And how can a party with open eyes and open hands face a population and say that one should better offer to the population, when one has such cut suggestions in its budgets, and when in addition one calls for credibility in relation to increased bets in the districts, in the municipalities and in the counties? That is a question I would like to hear from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1355	In this debate, the Labour Party has run with a high volume of school and education, partly in the form of a general description of the state of poverty in school, and partly in the form of a claim that private school services are the cause of poor public services. What is the Workers' Party's own answer to all this misery? It's a proposal for an increase of a little less than 1/2 pst. in the local economy, and it shall cover all purposes. In its proposal for an alternative state budget, the Labour Party has added an increase to the school chapters for one purpose, namely the school leisure scheme, and this has been over-balanced by cutting far more into the education budget than is added to it. It's a selfish form of offensive. It must also be said to the Workers' Party's commitment to cross-border schools and diversity that there is no party in this country that has such an unimaginable record of centralisation of the school, as the Workers' Party has been with the government in the long periods of the party. There is no party that has completed so many cross-border schools in this country. Even one example that has now been found is that there is one municipality in this country where there may be a connection between the establishment of a private school and the closure of the primary school, even in that municipality, the Workers' Party itself had taken the initiative to complete the primary school before the discussion of a private school came into the picture at all. So you haven't been able to find a single municipality where this is the real problem. The claim that it is the private school services that threaten the primary school in this country is with respect to reporting a folk adventure, even a bad folk adventure. The statistics show it's at the lower edge of 1 1⁄2 pst. by students in Norwegian primary schools who attend private schools. So one and a half heads per. One hundred heads. In Sweden, there is twice the proportion; in Denmark, there are eight times as many who go to private schools, without anyone who has discovered that it has disrupted social solidarity or tolerance or other good purposes. There is no alternative — either private school services or public school services. But it is in this that, in all other areas of this world, competition is healthy; it is healthy with freedom of choice. And there is reason to believe that most parents in this country are up-and-coming adults, independent people who are able to assess this for themselves. The Swedish Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party have now come up with a single measure to correct what is going to be the shaken state, where private offers are going to upset the public. That proposal is intended to leave the possibility of private schooling to those parents who are sought after. Because it is the actual consequence of what is proposed, namely to remove State aid for private school services. Then you'll be sanctuaryed to get to two different, sharply separated school offerings in this country. It's for me to look at at at all there's no match between it. the diagnosis is made and the type of treatment proposed by the socialist parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1380	I had the undisputed joy of participating in a TV-sent political debate last night on TV 2s Holmgang. There was head of the Workers' Party, Thorbjørn Jagland, on the war path, and talked about the fact that after ten years of labor party-driven bets at school, a new bet was really needed at school, because the results were so miserable. He spoke of the fact that the kindergarten costs, the prices the parents had to pay, had become too high, and he spoke of the need to strengthen the school leisure system. These are all things that belong to the municipalities. When we asked him how to fix this, the answer was that it was by strengthening the municipality's economy. That's what the Workers' Party stood for, and that's what would solve the problems in 2000. It was obvious that he started the campaign. But the municipalities' economy for next year is a topic today. Where's Thorbjørn Jagland? I waited a long time to draw myself on the list of speakers to see if he showed up, I've seen him here in the house. He's not here in the hall. Where's Thorbjørn Jagland? This should be the main debate for the Workers' Party when we go into the municipal election campaign. This is where we should expect the Workers' Party's proposal to strengthen the local economy that would really solve the problems at school, in the school leisure system, in kindergarten and in health, as they write in their comments. But what sparkles with its absence in the Inner East. S. No 220, proposals from the Workers' Party – just as Thorbjørn Jagland shines with his absence in the staging room when the most important thing in the municipal election campaign is for discussion. Where is the relationship between Thorbjørn Jagland and the Workers' Party now operating? Is that how to understand, as he tried to imagine the Norwegian people yesterday, that he should strengthen the local economy by 1⁄2 pst. – I'm sorry, he took good care of talking about numbers, because he had put out his hands and said that the Workers' Party's strengthening of the municipalities by 1⁄2 pst. That's what's going to solve all the problems, the Norwegian people would have rolled off the chair in laughter. And it has to solve all the problems in Norwegian school, in kindergartens and in the so-called school leisure system. I think the Workers' Party should be ashamed to present a message – at best on television – for which they have no coverage in proposals here in the Chamber, when the very thing they are saying is to solve all the problems. It is now the framework for 2000 to be discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1389	I'm not going to go up here and defend the Workers' Party, but I'm just recording that the local economy had been completely shattered by the arrangement of the Advance Party. I'm glad that Sylvia Brustad is sitting here, because then she might be able to answer a challenge from me. Together with the Workers' Party, SV has held up the debate on kindergarten education, on how important it is for children, and on how little freedom of choice parents have when there is a sudden upsurge in kindergarten development and parental pay is increasing more than ever. Together, we believe that kindergarten is the most important common arena for preschool children. It's good for children, because here they can develop together with other children and more adults in a social interaction. Kindergartens are particularly important for those children who do not have safe growing conditions, and that is the common arena where children with ethnic minority backgrounds can be included in society. We agree on that. For SV, it is incredibly important that all children are given the same chance to experience the community in a kindergarten. I have participated in several debates with the Workers' Party, and then we have agreed to say that everyone should have the same chance at a kindergarten, there must be enough kindergartens, and the price must be affordable. It's the only thing that can guarantee your parents freedom of choice. Together, we have criticised the Government for the lack of kindergarten bet. If the objective of full childcare coverage is to be achieved by the end of 2000, 12 000 new kindergartens will be needed in 1999, not 2 500, as the bulk of the population aims to achieve. That's where we agree, too. We also agree that the parent payment has to go down. But then it is the responsibility of both parties to make visible how the goal can be achieved through increased grants for kindergarten development and through an improvement in the municipal economy. Because it is the poor local economy that causes several municipalities to increase the parental payment. In the revised national budget, SV proposes increased funds for 10,000 additional kindergartens and a scheme in which municipalities receive additional grants to the places they can open by 10 January next year, and we put in a pot to reduce kindergarten rates. At the same time, we are strengthening the local economy through free resources. I therefore eagerly looked forward to the Workers' Party's proposal, to see what they meant. But I was disappointed. Actually, I found funds for several places, and that's good. But 100 million. extra funds for the municipalities in the childcare and family packages are a good idea if the aim is to reduce parental pay and to enable municipalities to take part in childcare facilities. SV has challenged the Workers' Party with regard to the municipal economy in several childcare debates. Now I want to ask, what is it in the Workers' Party's arrangement that makes it possible to bring down the nursery rates? Will there be a parental payment that is low enough to ensure freedom of choice, with the Labour Party scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1411	In the debate on the school, Inge Wohnung asks whether it is the private schools that threaten the school. No, it's not. For the time being, the Advance Party and the Right are doing it, but they get good help from the Government. It's not that there are so many private schools now. The question is, in what direction should this go? For SV, it is important that the school that is not good enough for the children of the rich, it is not good enough for anyone. We want a school that is good, modern and diverse, and for everyone. We want the pedagogical diversity to enter the single school, to give students the opportunity to get out of the classroom in between, to get teachers good pay and working conditions, and to get modern equipment in school, which allows them to actually train children for the future, not for the 1950s. It's important to us that it should be like this. We're not satisfied with a school where someone feels that the quality is not good enough, that diversity is not big enough, or that the purpose paragraph and the teaching of life is such that they don't feel at home there. So we challenge the Right to be in it, so that the school actually gets good enough for everyone, and that we can keep the important thing that the school represents, that is, that everyone meets, so that we learn to live together in the future. I think the right is concerned about that. Then I heard that the leader of the Progress Party, Carl I. Hagen, entered the pulpit here and was occupied by the community economy, and that might be a progress. But there has been talk today about how the Progress Party is going to finance the municipalities, and then you have to enter with a price, then the state is going to pay, it is said from here. And it sounds like you're going to drift out of some lenient source, which shouldn't be noticed for the individual. But I have read a little in the Progress Party's programme, and it says that this should actually be financed through a levy on popular security, for example. the health part. And then I could imagine asking the leader of the Progress Party if they've thought about this a little bit. How much will that disease tax amount to for each individual? How will the Progress Party keep these expenses under control? Wouldn't this be a pretty runny system if there's no brakes in it? Should each person be able to go and pick up exactly the money they want, and bring it anywhere, into the country, out of the country, and use it? I want to get this calculation on the table, so that the Progress Party cannot continue to say that these are expenses that the State is going to pay, and that the individual should not worry about whether the local economy is bad, and that they will also be free to pay as much taxes as they do today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1422	What got me to take the floor was the representative Ballo, who, in a good way, told only half the truth when he was going to characterize a political opponent. I don't want to reject numbers that Ballo presented, but he doesn't tell you how we want to finance the local economy. When we have said that we are going to have a government financial responsibility for health, care and education through popular welfare, through price financing, we will have coverage for it by reducing the usual income transfers that the other party gives to the municipalities through all possible subsidies, just to cover the costs of, for example, health, care and schooling. The SV and other political parties will use the framework transfers, the support schemes, to cover the costs. We in the Progress Party want it to be the responsibility of the state to finance this financially through a single price scheme. It might have been interesting if maybe Ballo at some other point also read and followed in what is the total and whole truth. There was nothing more I wanted to record at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1429	I meant to record that the Council of State signed up to answer the questions and challenges he has received. So I've registered that he's obviously retired. Then I have to challenge the Council of State again, both on the questions I raised, and also a few others. One of the features we see in the municipal economy is that self-payment in different sectors is increasing: the health sector — hospitals and hospitals — kindergartens, school leisure arrangements, renovations and many different fields. An increasingly important part of the municipality's income comes through a form of taxation other than the traditional form of taxation we've had. This has been strongly criticised by many, including the sitting government at the time you were in opposition. In addition to the many other questions I had in my previous post to the Council of State, I could imagine how he sees that this development should be reversed, if the local economy is still going to be as demanding as this is being added up to. The Council of State has admitted that the local economy is in short supply. Based on the alleged government's starting point, both in the Waksenås Declaration and otherwise in its general policy, there should now be a given occasion for municipalities to have a little more freedom of action, but the situation is opposite. The municipalities will have less freedom of action next year than they had this year, which will also mean that they have less freedom of action than they had the year before. These are fundamental questions for the political foundation of this government, and therefore the Council of State cannot fail to raise the pulpit and answer the questions raised by the opposition in these important areas. I therefore challenge the Minister of State not to resign the next time, but to go up and say how one has intended to find solutions to these challenges. So a few words to the Progress Party – Hagen and Mr. Solholm and others who have been up here. It is one thing that is liberating with the Progress Party, and it is that no better advice has been promised to Norwegian municipalities. In this way, it is affordable, because they say it outright: we have no desire to build well-being in Norwegian municipalities; we have no desire for municipalities to have a right of self-determination at all; we want the state to have a sarephak that those who want to do should be able to stick their hands up and take out what they want in relation to health, school or what it is now. In this way, it's affordable, but it's not the way you build a society, it's not the way you build a country, it's not the way you create equal opportunities for every citizen of the country in terms of health care, school, kindergarten or whatever else. Let me also say something to Inge Wohnning, who used part of his line here on SV and education policy. It's sometimes when I hear Inge Wohnning talk about education policy, that I think, has Mr. Is it true that real school is out of pay? Has Mr. Wages and salaries have resulted in the completion of the secondary school? Or what school is he talking about? He's talking about a completely different school than the school that's actually, and he's also attacking SV because we want to limit private schools. Yes, we do. But what's that right there, for example? are making in the revised national budget? That's 70 million. kr from compensation to 6-year-olds. The right is cutting down by a larger amount to the public school than what we want to limit the increase to the private schools.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1440	First to the representative Wage, who mentions the Workers' Party's commitment to improving public school as a 'bad folk adventure' – and also our commitment to the great approval of private schools we now see, while we see that some public schools are both degraded and laid down. We have a very decentralised school pattern in Norway, with which the representative for Wage is certainly familiar. I am not surprised that the Right-Representative Wage is not very concerned about it. But I'm glad that the Center Party is, and that the Center Party has also signaled that they will look at the evolution and the line shift that has now actually happened in the school sector. So for the post from the representative Hagen. I must say that the voice volume of Hagen is not at all in line with the commitment or rather a lack of commitment made by the Progress Party in the municipal sector. I also have to say that I think it's crazy when Carl I. Hagen stands here and says there's no connection between what the Workers' Party says and does, and what we're going to do with the local economy for next year. The Labour Party has said clearly from the setting that is currently being treated – if Carl I. Hagen had taken the trouble to read it – that we in the municipal sector for next year will propose an extra bet on about the same as for the current year, i.e. At least NOK 1 billion more than what the Government has proposed. We have also said clearly that we want a better distribution between municipalities. Thorbjørn Jagland said clearly about this on TV yesterday, and I and other representatives of the Workers' Party have said clearly about it today. So there should be no doubt about what the Labour Party wants with the municipal structure for next year, a scheme we have because, unlike the Progress Party, we are very concerned about the developments we are now seeing in many municipalities. There has been a sudden upsurge in kindergarten development, weather prices, school leisure arrangements are becoming more expensive and public schools are being reduced and partially reduced. Contrary to what's happening in the Progress Party, there's a connection between what we're saying and what we're doing. The progress party says they want to bet on the school, but they want less money for the municipalities. The progress party says they want to invest in the elderly and health, but they give less money to the municipalities. And then one has to ask, who's the relationship between that one saying and that one doing? I must also ask, at the bottom of this debate and after several representatives from the Right and the Advance Party have been up in the Chair, whether the Council of State of Enoxen and the Central Party feel well in that company. The Council of State, Mr Enoksen, said from this chair today that the Central Party is cooperating with those with whom they get the best possible impact on the policy. Does this mean that the Central Party has now been fully impressed by its commitment to the municipal structure for this year and for the next year, and that that is why they are cooperating with the Right and the Advance Party? That is what we must note after this debate. I would have been happy if the Council of State, Enoxen and the rest of the Government, would rather be involved in fighting for better framework conditions for the municipalities, so that they could give a better offer to children and young people, to the elderly and health, than it is now being added to. But then the government has to make a choice – a choice different from what it has done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1455	The President would point out that the word'spray' is not a parliamentary term in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1458	It is referred to the debate on TV 2 yesterday. I would like to ask if it was such that Norwegian viewers were told about the municipal arrangements of the Progress Party, which corresponds to NOK 8 billion less for municipalities and thus less service production. I would also like to ask: did the representative tell Hagen his constituents that he wants to privatize the public sector, that is. so-called deferred services in response to tenders? Did he tell the viewers that the old ones are going to tender before they receive the care they are legally entitled to? Because I assume that in Hagen's thinking, the care of the elderly is not an exception to being put to tender. This is how, as has been explained both by Thorbjørn Jagland in many contexts and by speakers from the Workers' Party here today, we want to prioritise children and young people, municipalities and education. In fact, we have done something more than that, we have proposed more to the municipalities for 1999 in the revised national budget, and we will propose more in the budget that we are going to deal with for the autumn. The representative Hagen can call it anything to us, we're going to propose this anyway. For us, the point is that municipalities are even better able to carry out the welfare tasks that we all expect them to do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1468	In many different contexts, I have challenged the Workers' Party to cooperate in areas where I believe we can achieve good results. The representative Brustad asks if the centre has the power to cooperate with the Workers' Party. It is a challenge that can equally be brought back to the Workers' Party: Does the Workers' Party recognise that the cash support has been adopted, that the cash support is solid, and can they, on the basis of it, help to find constructive solutions to the common challenges we face? I also record that the representative Djupedal goes back to the autumn of 1996 to find a budget line that, as was said yesterday by the Prime Minister, was good for the municipal sector. The representative, Djupedal, refers to the fact that SV was also part of the budget – as free passages. But I could also like to return a question to the representative of Djupedal: To what extent has SV been involved in and affected the development of the municipal sector and contributed to better budgeting for the municipal sector after the autumn of 1996, when they operated as free passages in a scheme negotiated between the centre and the Workers' Party? To what extent has SV been able to make an impact on its budget? To a very small extent. It also shows something of the SV's dilemma: you can have offensive suggestions in this context and criticise others for not reaching, but you have not, to a very sinful extent, power itself. The arrangements submitted by the Government are those of the central government. It's not a scheme that's the result of a deal with any other games, it's the central government arrangement. A real growth of DKK 2.5 billion is foreseen, with cost-intensive reform in the older sector. I have said in several contexts that I would have liked to have seen that the share of free money could have increased somewhat more, and that the transition from earmarked funds to free money could have been greater than what the Government has achieved in this context. But our ambitions in this area are firm. We intend to come back to this in the 2001 Community Economic Proposition, which I have also announced several times in the debate today. Now it is also the case that for this government it has been essential to secure the Norwegian economy and ensure the development of the Norwegian economy. It has been at the bottom of the budget line presented for 1999, and it is the scheme for the municipal economy for the year 2000 that we are presenting. I think everyone in this room agrees with me that if we hadn't got cost developments under control, reduced interest rates through the financial arrangement presented by the Government, which has been approved in this room, the actual situation for Kommune-Norway would have been far, far worse than it is today. And the 9 billion SEK that SV proposes in addition, would have been fed quite quickly in terms of cost increase and higher interest rates if you hadn't had a financial arrangement that also takes care of the whole of the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1483	There must be some flaw in the logic of the Workers' Party. Sylvia Brustad spoke about their commitment to strengthening the school, and then she will grant more money to the municipalities. She talked about their commitment to the kindergartens, and then she would grant more money to the municipalities. Then she talked about their commitment to the elderly, and would grant more money to the municipalities. The experience with municipalities is that they do not spend the money in these areas when they get more, but they employ more bureaucrats in town halls. And then they get more jobs in their public management system, which means that when you apply to build or expand something on a site, you have to wait six months, because then they throw themselves over these matters in order to make the most of the proceedings possible. So Sylvia Brustad asked about our commitment to the municipalities. Then I can say, we have no commitment to the municipalities. We'll give the money to the school. We grant the money for the services we want to strengthen, such as hospital services and elderly care services. We want to pay attention to the crucial services, because our experience with the priorities of the municipalities – and there I want to quote Thorbjørn Jagland as a witness – is that they are not spending the money on these things. Had the municipalities, which have significantly strengthened their finances, prioritised these necessary things, we would have had no problems. In schools, it's okay to introduce that if there are more than 18 students in the class, there should be two teachers in every single hour. If you had one, the teachers could pay a lot higher, and you could get better school services. One was to stop L97, which destroys the content of Norwegian school through this modern so-called pedagogy. What Thorbjørn Jagland forgot yesterday was that I was talking about competitive outsourcing in the municipal sector, as I mentioned, which is an opportunity for municipalities to produce the same services with better quality and greater value for less money, and that also applies to the care of the elderly, which Berit Brørby was involved in. Look to Denmark and Sweden, where modern social democrats are busy using the market and private services to get the incentive that competition brings. We can just go to these countries, not to talk about Tony Blair in England, to see how you do it after the model we've been through for a long time, which we also want to get into school. What the Workers' Party and Thorbjørn Jagland forgot to say was that they wanted to add 0.5 pst to the budgets. After the TV show yesterday, a belief they wanted to add to the budgets by 10 pst. But that's 0.5 pst. And that accused Sylvia Brustad of not disclosing me. Yes, I did. The Labour Party wants to strengthen the local government sector by 0.5 pst. So that amount has to solve all of the problems. At least the money will be earmarked for the services you want to strengthen, and not allow municipal politicians to build new town halls and invest in unnecessary business activities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1494	To continue where Carl I. Hagen left off: It's a paradox and a cross of thought that the Workers' Party is constantly talking about what is crucial for a municipality, no matter where it is in the Kingdom of Norway, there's enough resources and resources for kindergarten development. It's kind of the main point. But what are the promises made locally by the Workers' Party? I have a past as a municipal politician, and there has been a consensus that you should bet on the elderly, on care and on security. When one then sees how the individual political parties prioritise this in practice, I have to say that the Labour Party's attitude here today does not testify that they are something better in following up promises than what they claim that other parties here in the Chamber are. The main challenge for Kommune-Norge is to get politicians who will give priority, who dare to take the most important first. When you look at many of the populace around the Kingdom of Norway, the quality is independent of which party it is, not good enough for prioritising. When one also looks at the interest of politicians in getting funds from the local environment that they are supposed to represent, as well as a constant mass of getting more government transfers, and a look at what the funds are used for, it is clear that we need a revolution in this area in Municipal Norway. Politicians think they have to do all the tasks, and there is no task today that is too small for a elected politician to take it on and solve it, while primary tasks such as health and education come in the last row. But in one area, politicians are good, and that is in terms of new opportunities to tax and get paid by the inhabitants of the municipality. When it has gone so far in Kommune-Norge that we have politicians who in the context seriously promote proposals that people, after leaving this world, after dying, even pay rent for up to three months for the nursing home they've lived in, I think it's grotesque, and it's shameful to the voters they've initially told them to give priority. And when the municipalities in the ageing of their budgets, because they are unable to prioritize, introduce the tomb tax on the last trip, then a low level is reached. That's why we need a revolution in Kommune-Norway, and we need to cut down on the bureaucracy we have -- a bureaucracy that I think could serve 40 million people, and not 4.3 million.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1505	The representative Djupedal confessed that he had problems understanding some of the Right School policy. It doesn't have to be a big problem. The majority of SV's voters understand it very well, for the last poll taken here in Oslo, shows that an overwhelming majority of SV's voters support the school policy of the Right-City Council, among others. based on the principle of freedom of choice. That majority is present in all parties in this city, except for RV, and the majority is particularly large among SV's voters, so it is not all of the voters who are so heavy on it as the representative Djupedal. So to the claim that Right cutters on the education budgets of the public school. It is with respect to report completely wrong. If the representative Djupedal has joined his own committee during the treatment of the revised national budget, he may have recorded that the Right increases by a net of 114 million. on education chapters in its proposal for a revised national budget. So again to this constant concern of the Workers' Party regarding the decentralised school patterns in this country. I have to say it is quite impressive, considering the effort the Labour Party has made in the government position for decades after decades to centralize the Norwegian school system as far as possible. There is no party that has such an unimaginable Norway record in the closure of cross-border schools in this country as just the Workers' Party. And as I said instead, even in one municipality you have been able to look into today's situation, where there is a competition between a private school offer and a primary school, it was the Workers' Party that took the initiative to quit the primary school before there were any plans for a private school offer at all. It is and will be quite beyond the realm of reality to claim that it is ‘the great approval’, as the representative Brustad said, of private schools that are the problem. Microscopes still need to be used to get an eye on the proportion of primary school students in Norway who attend private schools. In Sweden, as I said, there are twice as many shares, in Denmark there are eight times as many. Both places have social-democratic governments, and I have not recorded that these social-democratic governments have for a moment thought that this should be a problem. It can simply be because those who have discovered that we are living in a time when people want freedom of choice and they do not want a national policy where economic coercion is used to remove freedom of choice from their parents. That's what the Working Party and SV go in for. Financial coercive measures are to be used to make private schools classrooms.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1516	"We have no commitment to the municipalities," said Carl I. Hagen. At least that was very honest. And if you look at the draft budget of the Progress Party, that is the statement of faith. There's not much commitment to the municipalities. I hear Vidar Kleppe here drawing up examples of local taxes in the municipalities, trying to generate income for the municipalities, as gruesome examples of how the municipalities handle that question. The amazing thing is that it will be entirely in line with what the Progress Party itself puts up in its proposals. In the setting, the Progress Party expresses the following: ‘The party working for real local freedom to determine for itself the level of taxation in the municipalities’.» And it's obvious that when the transfers are almost completely absent, the tax level will have to be very high. I'd like to think you'll get a high tomb tax – of course. High taxes on tombs must be the consequence of the policies of the Progress Party. That's the way it is. I asked the Progress Party earlier about the total lack of transfers to municipalities and county municipalities, where one thought as an alternative that funds should be found to operate both health care, school, and so on. I was asked to look up page 27 of the Advance Party's alternative budget, and what I find on page 27 is total tax reductions of 25.663 billion. So the Progress Party is going to finance this with tax cuts that are so high that it becomes a mystery how to run politics at all afterwards. So that means that the lot doesn't even distinguish between red and black numbers in an accounting. Now you're going to go into a municipal election fight, and then you're going to notice what Carl I. Hagen says, "We don't have any commitment to the municipalities." I believe the Progress Party in that. This statement is to be taken seriously, and I hope that it will also be presented to the municipalities in the forthcoming election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1530	Karin Andersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1533	The progress party says that it is terrible to put excesses on, especially for the elderly, in the municipal sector. But what happened last fall when the Progress Party sat at the negotiating table with the Government? Was it the old and sick they hit for then? No, no, no. 700 million. kr in the increase of the prostheses of sickness, tax on sickness, it seemed that the party of progress was fine, but not one more kr in tax, not one more kr in tax, no matter how rich one was. If a person receives his or her income from dividends on shares, he or she does not pay a tax crown. If you have a million in income, you'll get a checkbook! And they got tax havens. Served over 750,000 kroner, got a tax return last year. But the sick would pay more in taxes. And then the Progress Party even talks about municipalities not running a business and using public money to start it. Who is it that these days are about to push the state to spend billions of dollars on Fornebu for state business, and give away billions to people who have more than enough money from before?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1540	This has been a strange debate, in which all parties except the Advancement Party and the Right believe that the problems of the municipalities can be solved by squeezing more and more money. SV wants to spend a lot more money on solving the problems in the municipalities, and thinks it's the only recipe. As I have mentioned earlier, I believe that there is a large savings potential in the Norwegian municipal business. But they have monopoly, there's no question of challenging them. What's the reason why we accept 100 pst? the restriction of competition in municipal activities when we know that the restriction of competition prevents more solar efficiency and cost benefits that benefit both users and taxpayers? The main challenge for the local economy is therefore to have a more efficient use of society’s resources. This in turn presupposes a system shift in which today's public monopolies must be replaced by market solutions, tendering, deferral of competition and privatisation as at least the most essential elements. And of course, it is my wish that municipalities should have a better financial position to meet their welfare obligations. But then, in my view, we must also be willing to make these real system changes. SV, who has attacked the Progress Party through this debate, will only collect the money by adding more taxes to the companies and scaring these companies abroad. Who, then, is going to pay for our welfare society? The progress party is far too ready to make such a necessary system change, but the question is how far after the Progress Party the other parties are, in this case as in so many other cases. Finally, I think it is a pity that old-fashioned thinking should destroy the economy of Norwegian municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1553	I think there are certain aspects of Carl I. Hagen's thinking about state and school that might make you think about the Soviet Union's old five-year plans. As you know, there was a system in which a central authority down to the smallest detail defined what it was like, and the different communities sought to do it, albeit with varying degrees. So one went beyond local democracy and the possibility of local adaptation. For primary schools in Norway, we have built up a rather unique system that is, first of all, based on the fact that it is a single school, it has to be an equivalent offer for the whole country, it has centrally developed curricula, and it has a local democracy that can make local adjustments. That's why I think the Norwegian school is among the best. But there are huge multiplicity tasks that need to be solved, even after a considerable school effort over a long time. It's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going Municipalities must have the resources to solve this, we should have money both for the seniors' bet and for the bet in primary school. Then we must not risk that one important area steals resources from the other important area. What is the real response of the Progress Party to such a challenge, without the little paradoxical cry of more state and less local democracy? I see it as a call for competitive outsourcing. What is outsourcing in school? What is the competitive environment in health care and care for the elderly? Does it create more and better teachers? Does it create more and better nurses? Does it create more and better games? I think it might well be that if the outsourcing of competition is the answer to these challenges, it is taking the same resource from one place to another – if you don't meet the challenge of more education, with more means to meet the challenges, not by an ideological response to the outsourcing of competition. One or two or three private schools are not threatening primary school in Norway. But it is that a system of private schools in Norway can take so many resources — and not just money — from public schools that most people get a worse offer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1564	After hearing the statements by Mr Hagen and the representative Mr Kleppe respectively, it is for a rapporteur who is inside the Storting as an alternate, a description of reality in which I find it difficult to recognize myself. It is claimed that if you get more money to the municipalities, you can hire more bureaucrats, build new town halls, and do unnecessary business. If the world is like that, at least it's not like that in the municipality of Norway that I know. I think someone might have a warrant to figure out what this system really is. When, in addition, the representative Kleppe allows himself to say that politicians don't want to give priority at local level, and further questioning the quality of the people elected at local level, it might be a question of whether the Storting should set certain quality criteria for the elected representatives of the municipal authorities, and then we'll see what it looks like. I don't think that's going to work very well. So it seems that outsourcing is the only gratifying thing in this context. I would like to remind the representatives that private companies have as their primary task money to make, and if local authorities operate in a good and proper way, they will often be able to compete with private businesses. Another thing that I want to remind the Storting about and myself, too, is that one of the major problems that we have in Kommune-Norway today is that a number of decisions that are made cost money, and that everything that comes with is not necessarily accompanied by equal amounts of money. A number of the reforms we have experienced recently have not been paid in full. I would like to point out to my own adviser, who said that Flekkefjord Municipality can no longer afford the growth we are brought on from a central level. The point is to get a local democracy that works, I think it's important, as underlined in the comments, that you get less earring, so that you really are able to conduct politics at local level. I think the Storting is doing well to follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1577	Øystein Djupedal has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1581	Let me thank the Council of States, which finally made itself uncomfortable to come up to the pulpit. The problem with what he said was that he didn't answer one of the challenges he's faced. I assume that the reason for this is that he feels a certain discomfort at the local authority that lies here, because it is very far from what has been the centre party's starting point and position. He at least boasts of a growth in Kommune-Norway, a growth I don't think anyone in Kommune-Norway sees. The reason for this is that the growth is in earmarked resources for the elderly and health effort, to which a unanimous increase has joined. This means that the free resources that the municipality has to provide to trigger government funds are at the expense of children and young people. It shows the unique report that comes from the municipality of Norway. I guess that's why the Council of State in such a way – let's say – relatively unfine way goes to attack the SV. He has to do that, but he is the Council of State, so he has to defend what he himself has put forward, but he refuses to answer. So just briefly to Mr. Wages: He has to go back to his office and read the revised state budget. It is true that the right has an addition to the education budget, but they cut down to primary school. We're together on additions at universities and colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1588	It is interesting that the representative Hagen was so introduced by a TV show yesterday. Now he tries again as an expert on how to operate the municipalities. Has Hagen forgotten the election campaign in 1997, when he had to withdraw his entire party program? Did he forget that he made the famous comparison between Lakewood in the United States and the Municipality of Dramam, where he thought the municipality of Dramam could be operated with 20-30 employees, but forgot the difference between Lakewood and Drammen? It became obvious to the entire Norwegian people, so that he had to withdraw both that and his entire party program. So now he's trying again. It's going to be interesting to see what he has to withdraw this time. Now Hagen says that there is no money for the municipalities that is needed. In any case, it is obvious that the loss of income to municipalities has resulted in a significant increase in the number of kindergartens and the increase in the school leave payments. The Progress Party has voted in favour of minus 130 million. kr to the school leisure scheme, and the Progress Party has voted in favour of minus in the operating grant for kindergartens. This is exactly what is now leading to an increase in prices. In the Ski Municipality, the payment for the school leisure scheme has increased by 11.5 pst. to date this year, and there is now a new proposal to increase it further, so that payment for a place in the school leisure scheme will increase by 450 kroner per year and come up to – as far as I remember – 1170 kroner per month. It's just as a result of the fact that there's been less income for the municipalities. It is not useful to talk away from it, nor is it useful to talk away from the fact that the Progress Party was involved in pushing on the old age plan that the whole Stortinget was agreeing to adopt, but you had to come back and put more money into it, because you saw that you could not carry it out that way. When Hagen was going to defend what he was at first, he remembered most of all about a bureaucrat who would try to defend the impossible. But later he came up with better thoughts and granted more to the care of the elderly, just to carry out what the Storting had decided. I just want to say, the Labour Party doesn't want a shared school here in the country. We need a strong public school where all children can walk in the same classroom and be in the same schoolyard. It creates community. We need that more than ever, not a shared school — a private and a public.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1601	I think it's a little amazing that the representative Thorbjørn Jagland doesn't realize that these are the systems that are crazy. So if you want to strengthen the school, you have to give money. To strengthen care for the elderly, more money must be given to care for the elderly. Listening to the rhetoric that the Workers' Party in particular uses from this pulpit gives the impression that all problems are solved only by large, strong and bureaucratic municipalities. But it is quite right, the Progress Party is not committed to strengthening the municipalities to strengthen the bureaucracy in the municipalities. We are committed to strengthening the inhabitants, each individual living in the different municipalities, and the rights and opportunities that they have. If it had been so that the Workers' Party had really been concerned with the diversity of municipalities, they would not have gone in to turn the corporate tax into a state tax. It is one of the incentives for municipalities to stimulate economic growth and new jobs — for more income for municipalities. But the Workers' Party went in to remove that very possibility, under the cover of the fact that one would run another area of distribution policy. This only results in the municipalities that operate well and that are effective being deprived of incentives to operate even better. I can't believe the Workers' Party doesn't see it. The Labour Party is also here talking about this unit school. Yes, what is it? So the working party's perception of it is that you have to push a bunch of unresponsive, young people at one end, and hopefully you have to put good social democrats into the other. But this society is based on individuals who have different needs for learning, different needs for development, and who stand at different levels throughout their lives. Why is it so bad that you create a school that also stimulates those who are good, as much as you stimulate those who are less good? Then you don't have to have a single school, but you have to have a school adapted to the individual who goes to school. And then you're going to start diluting this by removing the characters and making fewer demands for students to be good. I think it's a really crazy way to go relative to getting a good school. However, in order to improve the local economy, it is essential to set requirements for improving efficiency. The debate on how important competition is to bring prices down even now. This is what we talk about when we regulate the telecommunications sector. And then it's the competition that's in focus. But it should not be the focus when we talk about care for the elderly. This is not about private making money on the misery of others. It's about taking advantage of the money in such a way that we get the most quality back for the money. It is the people who are entitled, and not the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1610	The President allows himself to suggest that it might be an advantage to finish these matters at this morning's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1613	I must say that this has been a rather strange debate. The representative, Jagland, shows that it is the fault of the Stortinget, the Advance Party, and the Right that the price increases in kindergartens and the school leisure system are taking place. This is a consequence of the priorities of municipal policy. That's where you put that piece. And with regard to the priorities of the municipalities, I will take a simple example from my own municipality of residence, Ålesund. Ålesund has no good care for the elderly, nor do you have a good school. But perhaps to the great surprise of the representative of Jagland, I can tell you that the municipality owns shares in power companies for NOK 1.8-2 billion. Here you have a lot to pick up by looking at other solutions. The debate is also marked by the fact that a majority in this Chamber – at least the Labour Party and the SV – are terrified of the private and, not least, the user. I think if the user gets more in the center, we get a better school, because we also make greater demands on school and school content. Let's make sure that the money follows the user, that is, the student. Don't let them go through the bureaucrats in the municipality. I just have to say, on the basis of experience from my own state and municipality of origin, that money tends to find unfamiliar ways when it's to be distributed through the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1622	I'm going to have the President's cautious request in the back of my mind when I now say something, but I need – despite the fact that this has pulled out – to say a few words to Djupedal and Tom Thoresen. In the case of Djupedal, I would remind him that the Right has used the revised national budget this year to mark a bet at school, because we believe that school and education are the key to Norway being able to deal with both short-term and long-term challenges. What Djupedal saw as a cut in the budget must be due to a misunderstanding. The point is that the department has informed about unused funds in the context of the 6-year reform, which has not been requested. That's the money he said. However, Djupedal knows very well that the right in this draft budget makes proposals, among other things. on the promotion of continuing training of teachers. And I have to say that there's something that's really the key in the work to getting a better school, it's just to get the respect for the teacher's role, to raise the status of the teachers, and also to give the teacher greater arms and impact in the school situation in question. The interesting thing about the organisation of the Workers' Party is that they now obviously choose the fight against diversity as the very profile of the election campaign. It's amazing. It's important, at my discretion, rather to create more freedom of choice and diversity than less, because along with important factors like the role of teachers, such as that of building being in order, as quality and individually adapted education, as characters, these are important elements to arrive at. And when Tom Thoresen asks about competitive thinking gives better teachers, the answer is yes. It does. First of all, it gives a better school, because the school is being challenged, and the parents and the students respond to a too bad public school just by choosing the private alternatives. Then the public school has to tighten up. But it is also important because the private supplements will be able to provide a dynamic in terms of wage development for teachers. I think we should now stop talking about the teacher challenge without talking about the very most central thing, that the pay structure itself, the teacher's wages, makes too few applicants there, and too many disappear from the profession. So something has to be done about that factor. And it's just the competition from the private supplements that, just like in health care, can help to give a certain dynamic. There is a dynamic that will lead more people to the teaching profession, get more to stay there, and therefore this is an important factor precisely in raising the quality of Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1636	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is immediately at hand. The President will propose that the meeting be extended until we have completed the procedure. 1 and 2. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Carl I. Hagen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1641	After hearing the Labour Party leader, Thorbjørn Jagland, I would like to make it clear that if Gerhard Schröder and Tony Blair had participated in this debate, they would have been on my side and not on Thorbjørn Jaglands. Then I refer to the last writing of the two gentlemen, and what is now the third way internationally, where we are betting on market solutions and freedom of choice for users. To Tom Thoresen, I would say, we go far further in democracy than the Workers' Party does. We will transfer power, authority and importance to the inhabitants of the municipality, and it is more democratic than that there should be bureaucrats and politicians who decide. And let me also tell Thorbjørn Jagland that I've never withdrawn anything I've said about Lakewood. Reorganisations are fully possible in such a way that what the public wants to do is used privately – in competition with each other – to carry out, but all control authorities and managing authorities remain in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1650	To the reference that Hagen now made to the third way: in the book that was written, which forms the basis for the third way, it says in the foreword that the Labour Party in Norway was out ten years earlier than the other parties that have now entered the third way. So most of the ideas that relate to the third way, the Workers' Party has taken up ten years ago. Hagen can read that book for himself. It's strange that Hagen dares to come up with Lakewood again, because this came out during the election campaign in 1997. Then Hagen said that Lakewood was his favorite municipality. It's in Los Angeles. He said that the municipality operates with only eight people, and so can the municipality of Drammen. That was said in the election campaign in 1997, but there were not 20-30 people, as I said in my first post – I have to correct it – there were eight people Hagen said the municipality of Drammen could be run with. But what he hadn't investigated was that Lakewood is not responsible for schools, kindergartens, social and health services and nursing homes. Despite this, Lakewood doesn't have eight employees, but 164 employees, and if Hagen had read the Internet, he would have seen that Lakewood wants more employees, but they can't get it because they don't have enough tax revenue. And that's not because there's no tax revenue to collect, because this is a rich suburb of Los Angeles, that's because the rich won't pay taxes – maybe they have a Hagen who's been propaganda for it for too many years! I have to say it is alarming that Hagen dares come with Lakewood once more and believes that Norwegian municipalities can operate according to that principle. Then we don't get a welfare society either in Norwegian, Scandinavian or European sense, nor in the sense that Bill Clinton is talking about it, which is the third way in the United States. There is talk of competition in the care of the elderly, and it's a little strange that you don't talk about it even more – yes, it's been talked about in the school sector, but why doesn't the Progress Party advertise its own program? What was adopted at the national meeting was that you want to have a private school. Then we'll get a shared school in this country, some will go to private school, and it's preferably those who can buy out, others will go to public school, which after that will be worse and worse. I hope that the majority in this room want a strong, public school where all children can go together. It's a value in itself in a society of diversity. Mangfold doesn't mean we're going to split up by religion, ethnic groups, attitudes or opinions in this society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1663	I believe the difference between the representative Jagland and the representative Hagen is that Igland is not really moving, at least not in the case of kindergarten, because the production that Igland gave of kindergartens in this country is far from reality. That the Workers' Party and Jagland are not able to get through their desire for compulsory kindergarten, I understand well is a great disappointment. However, the fact that the Workers' Party repeatedly specifies that more funds for municipalities will also lead to better childcare policies is, of course, directly wrong, because the problem is that we are repeatedly transferring funds to municipalities, which have a child care policy task, but which do not follow it up. The point is that we have a 40/30/30 share that has been adopted in this big business, but the municipalities have for the last ten years deviated from it in all areas. Subsequently, the private kindergartens in the municipalities have received 10 pst. of these transfers, the municipal authorities have received 90 pst. This means that the private kindergartens now go bankrupt, and there are a lot of municipalities around that actually plan to beat the private kindergartens bankrupt, so they can take them over. It is also directly wrong when the representative, Jagland, says that the Progress Party has been in favour of minor transfers to the kindergartens. We are the only party that took the situation of kindergartens seriously when examining the current year's budget and proposed 240 million. kr in transfers to the kindergartens that are wasted on their finances. What the Labour Party wants to do in this situation is to grant additional millions to establish new kindergartens, while we know that the problem is that kindergartens go bankrupt! The working party shall establish new kindergartens instead of taking care of those who have problems with their existence today. They will establish new municipal kindergartens that make the situation even worse. In fact, it also repeats itself now in the context of the review of the revised budget. The government has proposed 37 million. kr for extra measures for private kindergartens. The Workers' Party, together with the Advance Party, is given a higher grant, but the Workers' Party wants to use the funds for new kindergartens – stimulation for new kindergartens – when the problem is that kindergartens go bankrupt! The Progress Party wishes to grant 100 million in the context of the revision. kr to the operating budget to take care of the situation of kindergartens. It does not want the Workers' Party, alone because they are not allowed to carry out compulsory kindergartens in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1672	I'm sorry for the difference in altitude, sir. President! There are at least certain shades between the Right and the Advance Party as regards the competitive outsourcing of, for example: the school area. Siv Jensen is afraid of a school where individuals go into one end and social democrats come out the other, while Jan Petersen believes that a competitive outing of the school will get the public school to tighten up. I think the public school is getting sharper all the time. I think teachers, parents, school administrators and local politicians are constantly tightening up to stretch the skin trap that's there, to create the best school possible. But sometimes it doesn't even, sometimes the school encounters new problems that the school needs to have new solutions to get out of. Competition may lead to the transfer of some of the resources, including teachers, that exist in public schools today, to other schools, for example. private schools. But is it going to create a better school in total? Or is there the need to clean up the school buildings, to provide teachers with refresher training, to improve the entire teacher's education, which will create a better school? Yes, if it gets everyone to believe what anyone will believe, but I believe mine about it. Because this is a debate on municipal economics, it is of course of vital interest how municipalities should be able to do what is central to the tasks of municipalities. So one of the answers here is that the municipalities should not do it – it should do it privately – but the state should do it. I'm not sure it's a dangerous road. One of the reasons is that older people in need of care and young people in need of education need it in a community where the community can be built around each other and with each other. Do we want a school where young people of different orientations, of different religious views, of different home environments and different social groups will go together, in the same place, meet and learn from each other? Or we want a segregation, where they go on each of their premises and increase the distance between them. Neither am I in doubt about what I mean.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1684	Per salary has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note of up to 1 minute. Sorry – No pay, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1689	President, I'm not my brother's guardian! Everyone wants a living high-quality public school. The answer to Tom Thoresen's question is obvious. The difference in this case is whether you want to leave a choice to parents and students, or whether you want the public school to be the only option. That's why I asked questions instead: Why does the Workers' Party and SV want to use coercive measures to push people into public school? I have to be allowed to repeat the number's speech; it's 1.5 pst. by Norwegian students who are currently attending private schools. The increase in the last decade has been 0.29 per million, i.e. below the per million limit of alcohol legislation. If the Workers' Party is able to perceive it as a threat to the Universities School, then I must say that it is an easily frightened party. If Thorbjørn Jagland were to be as old as Metusalem, he would still be able to sleep reasonably safely at night after 1,000 years.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1698	It is very easy to believe that the representative Thorbjørn Jagland suffers from that selective memory. When he is in the process of painting himself into a discussion about the Progress Party program, it would have been an advantage if he had read the entire program before drawing the conclusions of what effects it has. And maybe it would have been an advantage if the Labour Party leader had spent a little more time presenting the Labour Party's policy instead of trying to interpret it in the whole of the Advance Party. When the representative Jagland refers to Lakewood, it's a good example precisely because it's become a user-driven municipality, not a politician's boss. And it is quite right, as Mr Igland says, that politicians are no longer responsible for school and care for the elderly. No, they don't, because it's moved away and debureaucratic. It is precisely what is the whole point of putting out competition and managing the services of users, that it is the users who should be the focus rather than the political priorities. The exact same system is in Switzerland. When you drive past town halls and municipal government buildings in Switzerland, you can get hurt to drive past them, because they don't look like the monumental nice buildings that you have built in Norway, but are small villas with a small administration. The representative, Jagland, is talking about this welfare society in which we all have to be so happy. Yes, it is precisely the welfare society of the Workers' Party that is in the process of playing down, and it is precisely the welfare society that both Schröder and Blair are in the process of modernising through more market adaptation. It's wrong when Thorbjørn Jagland says that the Progress Party's solution to the school challenges is more private school. We also want public schools to go out and compete with each other to give students the best offer, so that students can choose which school they want to attend. What's the truth is that today you've built systems where the private options, whether on the school page or on the hospital page, are an offer that just the rich, as Jagland talks about it, can buy, to reduce the number of people in line. It is precisely the system with which the Progress Party will have achieved the same level of equality, whether private or public, and let funding come from the same source, namely the state. In that case, all citizens will remain equally rich or poor because they are entitled to the same Community solutions, in any case. It doesn't matter whether it's a private initiative or a public initiative, as long as they're equal, and as long as they compete for the same users. I don't understand that this is going to be so hard to understand. When Tom Thoresen defines the school as a «skin trap» – yes, it is the skin trap that the Workers' Party has created for ten years with bets at school. And if that's the term you're going to use in a school you've created yourself, it might not be so strange that other politicians find reason to modernise it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1711	Sylvia Brustad has had the word twice, and gets the word to a short remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1714	I want to distance myself from the description Per Sandberg gave in relation to the Workers' Party's reality description for the kindergarten sector. The facts are as follows: In 1997 16 400 kindergartens were built in Norway, in 1998, with a civil government with the support of the Right and Advance Party, we were down to 3,500 kindergartens, because this year the target is 2 500 new kindergartens. Only here in Oslo, there's 4,200 kids in line for one place. At the same time, it is a fact that prices are rising significantly in many municipalities, which means that many parents have had to take their kids out of kindergarten. Who, then, is the one who loses most of this? Well, it's not least the weakest of the weak kids. Children's protection, immigrant children and other young people have an absolute need to be in kindergarten. I know that the Progress Party has no commitment to these groups, but when they try to present it as if there were no connection between the money we donate to the municipalities, and what we get into the other end also in the case of kindergartens – they must at best have very good imagination. So good imagination isn't it possible to have, because it's actually not right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1723	Despite the fact that the Storting is now proving that the perpetuum mobile really exists, I will take the word because I have three points. My one is about the 'third way'; I can't stop going into it. I have to admit that I have often wondered what the ‘third way’ really means. I don't realize that anyone dares to associate with it, because what it really is is not a scheme for what you're going to, but a scheme to get away from some of the social-democratic misunderstandings that have so long been hanging around social-democratic parties. That's why in many ways it's an attempt to build a superstructure over it to become a right-wing politician without admitting it. It is the ‘third road’. I saw in the Herald Tribune six months ago a definition of the «third way» that was really quite precise, as far as I can judge it – there it was described as opportunism with a human face. So two words about the local economy. I would like to say that in municipal economic debates the same mistake is always made, namely how much money you will get from the state. But we know what has really pushed the local economy lately, that's exactly what we got last year, which went all the way off track, and then we also got an interest rate trend that has also gone off track. These are the two factors that the Right's economic policy has just addressed, and that – I must say – have helped to force the Government in the right direction, yes to the degrees that the Government will obviously take the full credit of the economic improvement. And then a little bit to the school question itself. I think it is extremely interesting that the Workers' Party really makes the fight against diversity the ideological main thing in front of this election struggle. It commands that the school questions get where they should be, that is, at the very centre of this campaign. And I think what the Workers' Party is doing here, it's not even using the 'third way' as a cover to get to the Right, but it's falling back to old social-democratic views that time has passed. I record with great interest that Tom Thoresen didn't even try to argue against me when it was about competition actually being able to help get better teachers through a certain pressure in the pay system, which I think must be the key to getting something. But the problem with Tom Thoresen's reasoning is that he perceives teachers as some kind of given resource, and that's where the problem lies. The problem is that we now have too few teachers, we have too few who stay there, and we have too few good people who stay there. So we have to do something really serious to get better and more teachers back to school. Then we have to attack the very central, and I think that, like the private supplement in health care, a private challenge in school will also work positively, and then to the joy of the overall education system, both public and private.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1741	We from the Energy and Environment Committee came here at one time to start the debate on the power regime, and have been sitting for two hours and having experienced a general test at the municipal election campaign, and later we also had to participate, because we are going to participate in the municipal election campaign as well. It has been an interesting rehearsal, among other things. because several have tried to gain some ideological overtones and said that the Workers' Party has not understood anything of what the 'third way' is. It is true that the ‘third way’ can be defined in many different ways. But it is also true what Thorbjørn Jagland said earlier, that in the book that has formed the basis for the relaunch of that concept in the United Kingdom – the book of Anthony Giddens – it is a reference and reference to the Norwegian Workers' Party as a party that has carried out very many of these modernisations, new orientations, in relation to the use of instruments, but not in relation to the values and objectives that Giddens recommends that British social democracy should do, and to some extent has done. We've never been in the problems of British social democracy, and that's why we don't need the same kind of change that they've been through. So here it is that, to the extent that you have to deal with ideological questions, we have contributed to a part of that clearing of the left, which we carried out earlier in the 1980s. Then there are many who promise more for many good welfare purposes, and we will hear that throughout the election campaign. And then there are two things that can be good to check for. One is that in that race for who has the most money for kindergartens, school holidays and schools and other good purposes, it is a question of who is able to raise that money. And so when the Progress Party now throws itself on and not only promises more to the elderly and health, but also now promises more to the kindergartens, it is that the Progress Party in its programme proposes to cut dramatically the state's revenues. They propose to eliminate all state taxes, they propose to reduce a wide range of taxes, and they propose to reduce all taxes on wealth and property. There are tens of billions of dollars going missing, and then there's no matter how much less money there is for welfare purposes. I think we were able to demonstrate that in the previous election campaign, and we are also going to demonstrate that in this election campaign. The second test you should look for is not just where you're going to get the money from, but what's been practice: what you've actually voted for, not just what you've said in debates and in party programs. And there's the fact that, after many years of having had a strong expansion of kindergartens, we now, as Sylvia Brustad pointed out, had a crisis in kindergarten development, from an average of over 12,000, in 1997 over 16,000, down to 3,500 and the measure is now 2,500. This is a practical proof of a slowdown, as we also see in the school leisure system, where the votes of the Progress Party, the Right and the Centre parties were cut 25 pst. in the State appropriations for the School Leisure Scheme. That is what counts in practical policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1754	Yesterday we had a long debate here in Stortinget on education policy and on an equivalent school. There were government parties, SV and the Workers' Party agreed on the long lines, and they had written together on most things. Those who were isolated were the Progression Party with the tailhange Right. They still had, as they've always had, the old answers to new challenges. But the old times actually don't come again. We can't keep thinking about just the specific assessments of each individual student, we have to go far more into the learning process itself – not least the new era of IT and technology will require, just to mention something. There are so few private schools in which there is no pay. That's not what this is about. In the small communities that now find out in some places that the secondary school is going to be the private school, which has a very narrow intake circuit where not everyone can participate, where the public meeting place disappears, which also allows children to learn in association with others. And when the private school in this case receives automatic state subsidies and alienates the public school, we appeal to those who agree to a one-school idea, to correct this. And Johan J. Jakobsen has said positively that this should be looked at more closely. Furthermore, Jan Petersen talks about how important the teachers are. I fully agree with that. At the same time, On Friday last week, Inge Wohnning went to court with the teacher organizations to be the ones who had almost destroyed this exhibition window that the Right itself has broken in terms of school policy in Oslo. We are no longer in school policy if we do not engage in dialogue with the teachers who face the students in a difficult everyday life. Otherwise, Thorbjørn Jagland has appealed to the parties that want to bet on children and young people. Today, the representative of the government party has been quite silent, and it says a little about the dilemma that the government itself has placed itself in.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1765	Thorbjørn Jagland has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1768	I'm skeptical of those who have ideological lighthouses, such as. The maoists had. But at least they knew what the ideological leader meant about things. Now the Progress Party has got Lakewood as its ideological lighthouse, but they don't understand what Lakewood is. Siv Jensen provided new incorrect information about Lakewood. We're going to get back to this. Otherwise it was said that we have so few private schools – what is the problem? But it's increasing. That's what the situation is now. And if it's the case that private schools are so favorable, why don't you say that you should have the most of them? Instead, they say that there is so little that there is no problem. So here's the surr in the argument. If money doesn't matter to the Progress Party, why do you agree to give more money? You boast that you give money on one side, and then you say that money doesn't matter. The thing is, the Progress Party was involved in a long series of cuts that were unfavorable. Then you've seen that it doesn't work, and then you're going to agree to give more money. It proves that money is important to get things done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1783	Lodve Solholm has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1786	I have a seat as head of school and kindergartens and administered the government of Jagland – with Minister of Finance Jens Stoltenberg – say bet on schools and kindergartens in 1996-97. It was a strange and sad experience. There was not much wagering. And because of less efforts at care for the elderly, there were even bigger dents for kindergartens and schools. The working party's bet has now led the party to realize that their bet has not been closed. This is what happens when you wake up late or dreamy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1793	I heard the representative Siv Jensen insist that Blair and Schröder reformed social democratic welfare societies. And I thought Blair took over a social ruin after a far too long rule with Thatcher and Major, and that there wasn't much social democracy left in that country! Schröder took over after Kohl, who was also not a prominent social democrat. So if they want to reform something, at least it's not social democratic welfare societies. But leave it. I noticed that the representative Petersen thought the payroll was completely off, but at the same time he wanted teachers to get better pay and conditions. The context is not so easy to get in touch with. But really: what is crucial for Kommune-Norway is not the exciting and exciting duelenes that have been here today – it has really taken off completely. What's important is the alliances in this hall and not the duels in this hall. I noticed how tense it has been from the center when the temperature here has risen. It's really the center that's interesting, because it's the ones that largely decide which way the alliances should go. And when the representative, Djupedal, challenged the State Council, Enoxen, on the question of alliances, the Enoxen replied to scorn over the SV's abdication, instead of possibly explaining how the Center Party achieved its goals by sitting out in government on the grace of the Right and the Advance Party. That's what's interesting, and it's the center's answer that's most exciting about the question of the future of Kommune-Norges – what alliances they're going to build in the future. But it also depends on the fact that the Workers' Party is talking to the centre without too much aggression in any debate, that yesterday's tone, in the operablade, can also be held in future debates, because then perhaps the possibility of building alliances that could mean something positive for the Municipality of Norway is present. So my question really goes to the Council of State: does he feel that he is in the alliance with the Advancement Party and the Right to solve the tasks of Kommune-Norway? Does he feel in a way that he gets to some step in the direction of the Center Party's objectives in that kind of alliances, or does he see that it's going to be a big burden for Kommune-Norway if the center now isn't able to build political alliances other than the Right and Advance Party? And then he can respond to it instead of harselling over SV's power. We want much more power than we have, but we realize that we're not in a very favorable position right in this period. There are not so many things that we have been able to negotiate – I think that's a little sad.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1804	The representative Brustad was concerned with limited imagination and creativity. Yes, I'm busy with the same thing myself, and that's exactly what's the point. The Labour Party no longer has its creativity in kindergarten policy. In the 1990s, developments have gone that way. The operating grant from the State is equally independent of whether it is a municipal or private nursery. But the largest transfers go to the municipalities, they're baked into the framework transfers. And when the municipalities are going to distribute their funds, they distribute them to their own kindergartens and ignore the private kindergartens, because after the adoption of the Children's Court Act, different labour party-driven municipalities, with Brustad's blessing, have adopted their own regulations for their respective municipal kindergartens that go far beyond the kindergarten law, that can relate to wages, the number of employees, outdoor areas, etc., which means that the municipal kindergartens are 15-20 pst. more expensive to operate than the private ones. At the same time, municipalities reduce transfers to private kindergartens, which in the 1990s have taken over the expensive kindergartens, while municipalities have retained the cheap kindergartens. That's why the difference has become so big. The representative Stoltenberg is also concerned about this, and comes in a way with a challenge to the election campaign. Yes, I would like to stand up in the election campaign with a straight back in the field of kindergarten policy, because here, too, there is limited creativity from the representative. Because if you have tried to follow in what the Progress Party has done for the current year, and what we are doing now in revision, it will not entail any additional expenditure – it is then about the creativity of the Progress Party to solve the problems that have arisen in the kindergarten situation due to the Labour Party's kindergarten policy. Sylvia Brustad and the Workers' Party build their entire kindergarten policy on the need to build more kindergartens. That's all they build their policies on. I fully agree – and I am pleased that the representative, Brustad, makes it as hard as she does in her contribution – that there is a difference between our kindergarten policy and the Labour Party's kindergarten policy. In our party, we're not as concerned with the institution child as Sylvia Brustad is, or as I call it, the 2-hour child, and then it's tied up to Brustad's strong desire for mandatory kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1813	It may be good for a member of the municipal committee to interfere towards the end of this debate as well, and only note that what began as a debate on the composition of the transmission system to the municipalities next year, with problems and technical concepts which unfortunately are only reasonable for special scope, has developed into a Holmgang debate the next day. Then it's okay to go back to some of the things in the setting, and ask: is this linked? The Progress Party has made a large number of the fact that they will leave responsibility for hospitals, schools and care for the elderly to the State, while they are in a position to comment and stress that ‘the municipalities are a fully-fledged political and administrative level’. They later point out that municipalities need to ensure that surveys, referendums and others are conducted on how people are satisfied with school, hospitals and care for the elderly. But why the municipalities should interfere in this, when it's the responsibility of the state, is something the Progress Party gets to explain during an election campaign. Then we have the Workers' Party that makes a big number of all the bets they want on kindergartens and school. Sylvia Brustad indicates that kindergarten expansion has stagnated in the last two years. It may be a natural development when a full year's coal has started in school, and when we have got a cash subsidy introduced. Then there is a question about the additional appropriations that the Workers' Party is making for 125 million. kr in stimulation for new places, has a strong opinion when the applicants for nursery places are not there, other than in special cases. Then the Workers' Party goes high on the track about the state of the school without actually adding extra funds to the municipalities in some particular monn, and without there being any extra earmarked appropriations from the Workers' Party in particular in that area. Grete Knudsen stood up over Inge Wohnung, who, on the one hand, took the point that is important to the Right, that the teachers are reluctant to pay off, while he has allowed himself to criticize the teachers' organizations for their actions in Oslo. But it's actually related to the Right to point out that maybe the organizations have done too bad a job working for their members' interests. I will return to something I began my main post with. Perhaps some of the most enjoyable thing when we take away all the rhetoric and return to the base is that the vast majority of people in the hall now realize that for the municipalities it might mean less with a few extra nominal dollars to the municipal sector than what we do with prices and interest through a tight municipal economy. That's an interest rate decrease of 1 pst. will be 400-450 million. kr in increased grants to the local economy, and also 1 pst. Reduced price increases mean almost NOK 2 billion more to the municipalities. What matters to the municipalities is how we keep the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1828	Siv Jensen has spoken twice, and gets the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1831	I believe that Jens Stoltenberg should concentrate on keeping his own pants up rather than trying to pull down the Progress Party. In the discussion about money use and what priority should be given to, the Labour Party is going to spend more on everything, more on good purposes – it is not the Advance Party! In fact, it has been no longer than the budget debate in the autumn that the Workers' Party was standing on this pulpit and hasselling over the cutbacks to the Progress Party. Yeah, that's exactly what we're doing. We cut in those areas where we believe it is not a public financial responsibility, to give priority to the areas of activity that we place highest, including health, care for the elderly and school. But that also means that, within that framework, we give priority to tax relief. And then I think it might be beneficial for the Workers' Party to decide whether to accuse the Advance Party of wanting to spend money for all good purposes, or whether to accuse us of our cuts not being acceptable to the Workers' Party. Both parts are not connected, and it could be beneficial for Jens Stoltenberg to take it inwards.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1838	That not only in Norway, but otherwise in Europe, social democracy has gained a share that not everyone has tolerated, at least not the representative of Jagland, is obvious and visible to everyone. I will not put salt in the wound on them, but I note, at least, that in the Progress Party – as opposed to the Workers' Party – we see new challenges in the nation, and we are willing to listen and listen to the people we are going to serve. That's why we want a smaller state, we want more local democracy and, not least, we want a democracy that focuses on the choices and priorities of individuals – and we want to accept them. So for the discussion and the debate about Tony Blair and Schröder. I have to say that with regard to this new social-democratic programme/manifesto that they have presented, one can at least read in the newspaper Monday 14 June that that programme is actually on the right of the Right. And Hallvard Bakke, who has been a long-standing big-time representative and also a state councillor for the Workers' Party, says in fact – without me putting too much emphasis on what this Hallvard Bakke says and writes in the Newspaper, but I think he has a point – it's not sure Jan Petersen will find much he disagrees with that manifesto. But what's interesting is what's going on down there, and I'd like to quote: «Although the document is new, the message is known. Blair and Schröder are keen in their criticism of the social democratic model of society that we find, among other things, in the Scandinavian countries." That is quite the opposite of what the representative, Mr Igland, has said here today in his speeches! It is a sharp criticism of the Nordic model and what we have had in the Nordic countries. It goes on to say: "It couldn't be better for Carl I. Hagen." It's about the content of the new manifesto for how to solve the challenges we have. Clearly, the belief in more taxes, the belief in a greater bureaucracy and the belief that others can do better by having overall governance, where they are to control people from cradle to grave, have failed. It is obvious to everyone that the people in this area will now be set free. And we're going to take on that freedom in the Progress Party and give it back to the Norwegian people. I conclude by saying that once again Thorbjørn Jagland is not where he should be in the discussions about what is important. And in the case of quotations and the representative who has used Jagland, I have to say that it is not a believer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1863	First to Vidar Kleppe: Thorbjørn Jagland has quoted correctly from the book to Anthony Giddens about the third way. Then there have been many other fresh contributions from the Progress Party on Welfare, and I just want to comment briefly on them. One was Lodve Solholm, who explained to us that he had been the head of the department responsible for upbringing, kindergartens and school when Thorbjørn Jagland was prime minister and I was Minister of Finance. It was a gripping story from reality, how difficult and sad it was with cuts and narrow budgets. Well, that was in 1997. That was the year we built 16,500 new kindergartens. There was a record in kindergarten development. It is possible it was bad in his municipality, but it obviously has something more to do with the establishment than with the overall framework, in the sense that other municipalities were able to build many kindergartens that year, and something like six-seven times more kindergartens than what was built in 1999, as the Progress Party has helped to lay the financial framework for kindergarten development. School — well, it was about the time we carried out a comprehensive school reform and extended primary school to 10 years of schooling for six-year-olds. There was something we also allocated a lot of money, and we got this big school reform going on around the time. So Sandberg's representative came up and contributed to tell you that the Progress Party is really very much for kindergartens and wants to spend money on kindergartens, that they're actually more for kindergartens than the Workers' Party. What the Progress Party is for is not kindergartens, but cash support. And they want to spend the money that is currently spent on kindergartens, to finance more money for cash support. Their party program on page 29 says: ‘The party will give parents greater freedom of choice by removing subsidies to kindergartens.’ And then the Progress Party must stop saying that they are more for state-aided kindergartens than the Workers' Party. They're against it, if you're going to trust the program, but it's not always as obvious that you're going to do it. It is an honest matter for the Progress Party to say that they are against state-aided kindergartens and for cash support, but then they have to acknowledge it instead of likening some medium-sized municipal politicians who are for all expenses locally but against the same costs centrally. So it was Siv Jensen who said this with priorities. Well, we simply note that in the budget the Progress Party has voted in favour and secured a majority in favour of this Great Britain, for 1999, it is a weaker budgetary balance, less responsible financial policy, and more money is spent than under the budget for which the Labour Party voted. Nevertheless, the Labour Party has found room for more money for schools, kindergartens and care for the elderly than the Progress Party has found room in the budget they actually voted for. And again -- it's practice that counts, not what you say.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1886	I would draw attention to the fact that the representative Jagland claimed that the Progress Party wants a private school where everyone can buy themselves. This is not correct, which I'll go into later. The representative Thoresen had more reflections on what community he wanted, and what school he preferred. Well, thank you, it's pretty similar to the Swedish school of unity, which is said by a lot of people to be in rapid decline, it's disintegrating. This does not want the Progress Party. The party wants a living school, a school with development opportunities, according to the needs of the users. We wish – as the representative of Grete Knudsen is fully aware that we agree – that the equivalent training should be given to all children in Norway regardless of the parent’s economy, place of residence, etc. In fact, the committee agreed on this when we presented the setting of the message we discussed a few days ago. The party recognises that the teachers are the most important resource for getting just this school. And that means that teachers' general status, opportunities in the labour market and wages must be better cared for than they do today. Whether these teachers are employed in public schools or private schools is really completely uninteresting, because the teachers are a diversity in themselves, and they are to preserve a diverse school environment for the benefit of 550 000 students who are gathered in what is called the Norwegian primary school today. And this isn't either an average mass or a uniform mass, there are 550 000 different individuals to develop. And we in the Progress Party believe that this can be done very well within a large and wide range of school offerings consisting of both good public schools and a variety of private school offerings. But – and it must be clear – these must be equated. It must not, as at present, make a clear discriminatory distinction between the private schools which are allowed to establish themselves for some strange reason, compared to all those who would like them to be established. So let it be clear: within school, the Progress Party wants equivalency based on diversity – which does not mean equality.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1895	For those who have followed the debate from 10 a.m. this morning, it is actually possible to trace a thread in the debate that has been going on – incredible enough – even though we have had a mix of an ideological debate and a highly practical debate today. I'm not going to comment on so many posts, but I want to raise a few things, because I'm challenged both in terms of private school development and in relation to developments in the kindergarten sector. Jan Petersen said in his post that private school as a competitor of public school is good, because that will lead to a competition among others. on the salaries of teachers, which will lead to an increase in wages and thus better teachers. Of course that's possible. I agree that there is enough need to look at the teacher's wages, but I'm not so sure that's the way to go. Because I don't think the representative Petersen wants us to have a privately funded school. And in the sentence before this was said by Petersen's side, he said that one of the biggest problems we had with last year's payroll was that it was galloping, and that we got too strong a wage trend. Of course, this kind of development that Jan Petersen asks for in relation to the private school will also lead to increased costs in the public sector, leading to an increase in transfers to the municipalities, which Jan Petersen did not want. Now the increase in private schools that we've seen so far is not a problem in itself. I honestly think that the weak increase we've seen can live with. But as with so many other things, the regional problems that this leads to are the problem. Because it is not in all parts of the country that we can have a strong establishment of private schools while maintaining a good and strong public school system. That's the main problem if we get one too big entry of this. And that's what we all have a responsibility to look at. What are the effects in those areas of the country that actually have problems enough to maintain a public school offer, if, for various reasons, you also get a strong feature of private school in addition, which means that none of these parts can be maintained with a quality that we all want to be in school? The country is diverse, and it also shows the debate in relation to the kindergarten sector. It has been said by the representative Brustad that in some parts of the country we have long waiting lists. That's right. But at the same time, it's a fact that in other parts of the country kindergartens are liquidated, they're going bankrupt. Private kindergartens don't manage, because the search is too small. It is usually in the district municipalities, and in this context it is a paradox that the Workers' Party was involved in cancelling the redeployment of unused funds from the public kindergartens, as the central government of revised wishes to use to finance the outsourced private kindergartens. This sector must therefore also be able to see the link between things – see that in some parts of the country, as the representative Brustad said, there are not enough kindergartens being built, while in others too many have. Then SV has asked again if I am satisfied with what we have achieved. I have said innumerable times that we are interested in cooperating with the parties that facilitate us to get the most out of our policies. I believe the debate here today has made it clear that there is a difference in the main desire of the Progress Party and what has helped to support the arrangement of the central government. Although I have repeatedly claimed that the share of free money is too poor, and that we should increase this share, the municipal minister is pleased with the growth in the municipal structure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1913	The State Council of Enoxsen made the same effort to be both a supporter of and an opponent of higher and more differentiated teachers' salaries. I guess that's what you can characterize as a typical center policy. That's said a lot of special in this debate, but some of the more peculiar thing was the representative Tom Thoresen who stood for, when he characterised it as opening up to diversity in the schoolwork, as self-government. So the right of parents to choose school for their children can open up to segregation. What he really characterises is the system that has been in place in Denmark and Sweden for several years. In Sweden, the government opened Bildt to parents and children to choose school for themselves, and it is not fundamentally reversed by the social-democratic government that took over. What has happened after opening free school choice in Sweden? Only 10 pst. choose another school, but 100 pst. Schools are intensifying, and that is why they have also chosen not to reverse this reform. The situation today is that the school feels that they have students of nobles and possessions, and you do not have freedom of choice. In Sweden, the school must prove that it is good enough to deserve students to choose that school. It's a system that I think we should also go into Norway. But one of the most important caves that has happened in the debate is the party's violent call for a better school, but without having any resources to implement its pretty words. In their alternative budget last year, the Progress Party cut close to DKK 1 billion for education, while saying that they should strengthen its content. It's alarming, and it's going to be interesting as the election campaign approaches, to get a little bit closer to how you're going to achieve this through that kind of budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-16.ana.ud1853e1926	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. We will end this morning's meeting, and a new meeting will be held at 9.00 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4051]]
