ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e33	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the sitting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e38	I suggest Tron Erik Hovind.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e43	Mr. Tron Erik Hovind is proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Tron Erik Hovind is unanimously elected president of the Odelstinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e60	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes and Center Party, Socialist Left Party, Left and Twist Party elected 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given to the exchange of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and after the submissions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e71	In 1996, public procurement amounted to DKK 186.8 billion. $186.8 billion was 18.4 pst. of GDP for 1996 and close to seven times the Norwegian fish exports in 1998, in order to benefit from an area known to this Committee. On such a scale, it goes without saying that it is very important that these purchases are cost-effective. A saving of 5 pst. is not unrealistic. That would give a saving of $9 billion, and there's more to it than that in the current year's budget management. Reports and analyses show a saving potential up to 15-20 pst, so here can save a lot of money on tight public budgets without reducing supply, and maybe even releasing funds for people's services. I myself experienced this on a small scale as a health and social manager when the health home administrators of three neighbouring municipalities merged about the purchase of diapers and packaging for hot food for the elderly. Together, they had more competence about suppliers and the legislation, they were more good at negotiating, and they were going to make bigger purchases. What we saved on this, we could use it for services or to reduce the cost of food. This is a simple example, but it illustrates the points in this case. Fortunately, there has been an increasing focus on this with purchases in the public sector in recent years. But there's a lot left. An obstacle has been a little one-sided, complex legislation, a regulation that must take account of the EEA Agreement, which has been made into Norwegian law by means of a law and four regulations. There are separate WTO rules for public contractors, and government procurement legislation, REFSA, liabilities. This collection has not been particularly easily accessible for example. medical administrators or others. KS has correctly designed a normal instructions for this, but this has only been partially followed up by the municipalities. As I say, the legislation has been complicated and difficult for buyers, but also for sellers and suppliers. A review of the legislation was therefore necessary to make it easier, more accessible and easier to operate. It will next strengthen the cost-effectiveness of the public sector, which will ensure better use of public resources and improve competition and legal certainty for suppliers of goods and services. With this background it was at kgl. The October 1995 resolution set up a public sector body to deal with this problem. The selection produced an evaluation that was consistent at most points, and the hearing authorities were essentially positive. In view of this, the Government presented to the Ot.prp Stortinget.prp. No 71 for 1997-98, on the law on public procurement, dated 28 May 1998, a proposition of the Storting was agreed to join in all materially. I would like to come back to this under the individual points, but I would like to begin by pointing out that today’s plurality – the Labour Party and the Government Party – goes a little further than the proposition when it comes to providers who take responsibility for apprentices, and when it comes to suppliers making use of contractors. The majority say in its comments: ‘The majority therefore request that the regulations be drafted in such a way that apprentice enterprises are given such a competitive edge. ‘... And on the other hand, ‘...that you avoid providers that use contractors to circumvent professional rights and avoid the social costs of having their own. ‘... This is important in order to strengthen the competitive situation of the serious enterprises – those who, in addition to the entire committee, have been agreed upon, make up and document it with a tax certificate, and who take health, environment and safety seriously and can document it, and then take responsibility for professional training and that companies that avoid taking responsibility for recruitment by using contractors are not allowed to run monar. Here it's important that the public lead as a good example. So this is a good day for a good cause: for business, which now has a simpler regulatory framework to deal with for serious companies that make up and take responsibility for the public, which are given more efficient resource use for the Norwegian people, who get better and more public provision for the same money I want to go through the different points in this case. The Committee has noted that substantial changes to the laws in relation to previous legislation have been proposed: A purpose paragraph is inserted. Basic requirements for the purchasing process are included. Consideration shall be given to the environmental impact of procurement. The rules shall also apply to government purchases below the threshold laid down in EEA legislation. The government will set up a working group to further evaluate the legislation monitoring. The new legislation shall include three regulations and two State instructions. The Committee welcomes such substantial simplification of the legislation. A significant point in the proposal and in the management of the committee has been whether the new legislation should also cover the local government sector. In the light of the EEA Agreement, the local government sector is involved in the issue of purchases above the threshold of 1 million. kr in the case of government etatar in the case of goods and services, and SEK 40 million. kr for construction contracts. It is a goal with as much equal legislation as possible for buyers and especially for suppliers, but the majority in the Committee, again the Labour Party and the Government Party, agree with the Government that cooperation with the local government is being started in order to assess this. KS has strongly opposed this being done now, based on local democratic arguments. I can understand this when it comes to the process – they will be taken on board – but I hope that the next step will be to include the municipal sector. The community sector accounts for almost half of public procurement, and about half. 75 pst. of which below the threshold values. Such an increase in efficiency as this legislation would allow billions of dollars to be released to the school-free arrangements and home-help services in the municipal sector. The new public procurement legislation must take into account the prohibition of: discrimination on grounds of nationality quantitative restrictions on imports of goods restrictions preventing the free movement of services State aid distorting conditions of competition This is incorporated into the laws as basic requirements. According to the EEA regulations, each candidate and non-elected tenderer is entitled to a justification for this. The Committee is concerned that this right of appeal is effective and believes that such a justification can increase the level of understanding and knowledge in this area. In the law we handle today, a purpose paragraph is included. The paragraph is worded as follows: «The laws, regulations and administrative provisions shall contribute to increased value creation in society by ensuring the most efficient use of resources in public acquisitions based on business and non-discrimination. ‘... The Committee has taken note of this, but stresses that this is not contrary to the fact that it is possible to attach non-professional conditions to the purchase. In addition to the terms and conditions proposed by the Government, i.e. the requirement for a tax certificate and HMS certificate, a majority of the Committee, the Labour Party and the Government Party will be involved in order to assess the question of whether suppliers take responsibility for apprentices and benefit contractors. For us in the Workers' Party, this is an important social dimension, and I'll come back to it later. It is important that the legislation is well and easily accessible to both purchasers and providers. It is also important that the legislation is enforced. As mentioned, cases may be brought before the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, and cases may be brought before Norwegian courts. But this has happened to a little bit. The Committee supports the Government's concern about this and welcomes the fact that a selection is being set up to further address this issue. It is important that purchasers take account of environmental issues and that environmentally friendly products are preferred. The laws we are handling today provide instructions for such concerns to be evaluated, and a joint committee agrees with this. In this case, the Stortinget is also challenged to comment on certain more fundamental aspects of the regulations of the law. A suggestion for regulations has been out on the phone. I would like here to limit myself to discussing the issues raised by the Committee, but I would like to begin by pointing out that it is important that the regulations are developed in cooperation with the social partners and relevant professional organisations. The Committee also welcomes the fact that the individual industries are developing approval schemes, as one has done in the cleaning industry. The cleaning industry has probably been one of the "shittest" industries in this country, suggesting that there have been many unprofessional players here. The Clean Development project is much better at this, although it still has a lot to do. The Committee considers it important to strike a good balance between purely professional considerations and more societal considerations. The Committee, as stated by the Government, supports its proposal for a tax certificate and HMS certificate for providers in view of the fact that, when buying goods and services, they have to give premonitions directly or indirectly to non-society providers. The Committee agrees with the Government that there should be a common financial limit for these areas. The government suggests that this limit should be raised from DKr 150000 to DKr 250000. The NHO and LO believe that the limit should still be NOK 150 000. Following an overall assessment, the Committee concludes that the limit should be set at NOK 200000, which is roughly equivalent to the price rise. What might not be clear enough about this setting is what the limit of direct purchases should be. The Committee has proposed that this limit should also be NOK 200000. So to the question "yes to apprentices, no to contractors". I am pleased with the constructive cooperation we have had with the government party on this issue, and that we have come up with a solution that all parties can live with. It is important to support the serious enterprises, those that take on their own in society and take on social responsibility, by providing the competitive demonstrators as providers. A minority in the selection that dealt with matters entered a so-called apprenticeship clause. The proposition states that the Ministry is initially agreed with the minority that it is a public task to ensure full vocational training in Norway, with a sufficient number of apprenticeships. The Ministry points out that it may be difficult for small enterprises to take this responsibility, but I would like to point out that we have the system of training offices and training rings that are also adapted to small enterprises. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party and the Government Party consider it important that providers responsible for training and new trades are given a competitive edge and not a disadvantage, and ask that the regulations be designed to give apprentices such a competitive edge. So is this an apprentice clause? The majority of their premises are at least clear. For us, it's not important what you call it. We would urge the Council of State to draw on the experience gained with the apprenticeship clause, and we are sure that this will be well preserved in close cooperation with the social partners. So to the question of contractors. Here the majority believe that the Government thinks it is particularly important that the public go ahead in the fight against illegal and unlucky contract practices and in the fight against undeclared work. The majority sees that it may be difficult to define the contractual term clearly and points to the positive fact that many drive a one-man venture. The majority request that the regulations be designed in such a way as to 'avoid providers who use contractors to circumvent professional rights and avoid the social costs of having their own added'. Here, cooperation with the parties will make sense. The same thing will happen if you drag and drop the exchange of experience that has been done before. This is what the rest of the Workers' Party will come back to. Finally, I would urge Odelstinget to vote for a law that facilitates more efficient use of resources in the public sector, and to give priority to those providers that make up and take social responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e185	Law on public acquisitions, which entered into force on 1 January 1994, came into force as part of the implementation of the EEA Agreement in Norway. This was important, for example: to make better use of resources. When the public sector chooses a more expensive supplier than necessary, it means higher costs for taxpayers. The proposition that Odelstinget is dealing with today is designed to coordinate the unbridled and complex legislation to which suppliers of goods, services, construction and installations must relate. Today’s legislation is not very suitable for the fulfilment of the basic principles of the EEA Agreement and results in unnecessary use of resources. Suppliers must comply with the EEA rules in addition to internal instructions in the country and municipality and with the applicable Public Acquisitions Act. I would like to make some comments on the new acquisitions legislation. It is very positive that the State has to comply with these rules even below the thresholds. Unfortunately, the municipalities are not covered by the new legislation, although, of course, municipalities and county councils must comply with the essential requirements under the law, the EEA Agreement and the WTO Agreement, on which the case-rapporteur was also involved. The reasons given by the Ministry for not including municipalities are that the acquisitions by municipalities were not covered by the mandate of the sample. This meant that the municipalities were not represented in the sample other than by a contact person. The fact that KS had a contact person in the sample meant that the municipality’s normal instructions were written over the same reading as the proposal in NOU 1997: 21, which is the investigation on which the bill is based. The Progress Party therefore considers that it would be no disadvantage for the municipalities to be subject to the new regulatory law, and makes proposals along with the Right. A common regulatory framework for contracting entities, both state, county and municipal, will simplify the structure of the legislation. It will be easier for both contracting entities and suppliers, because there is no need to think about which chapters of the regulation apply to the various contracting entities. A common regulatory framework will also facilitate legal certainty. If municipalities and county councils are not to be included in the regulation of acquisitions below the thresholds, it may appear as an acceptance of breach of rules below their thresholds. We must not forget that most of the contracts entered into by local authorities relate to smaller values. For these acquisitions, municipalities shall continue to determine their own instructions for the procedure. Municipalities can today choose whether to submit to the normal instructions of the KS or to make use of self-produced rules. It is appropriate to mention that the normal instructions are only an instruction for the local authorities’ own employees and no legislation that may initially be relied on by suppliers in a dispute. The rules of the law on non-discrimination and objectivity can, of course, be invoked, but will be less helpful than the detailed procedural rules of the proposed regulation. The Progress Party reacts to municipalities getting away from the rules. Many small and medium-sized enterprises compete for the smaller acquisitions in the municipalities. These activities can be more easily overlooked because many of them do not have the resources to respond. This may contribute to limiting the competition needed to maximise the use of resources and is the main reason why the Progress Party believes that not only government but also municipal acquisitions below the thresholds should be included in the legislation. Today’s system of public procurement enforcement is, in the view of the Progress Party, for complex and inaccessible, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. The apparatus for resolving conflicts must become more effective. The Committee for the Revision of the Public Procurement Code, which resulted in NOU 1997: 21, also pointed out that there was a need to further assess how the Norwegian enforcement system can be designed to function on the basis of the intentions and meet the needs that appear to be present. A sample has now been set up to look at these issues, which was also discussed by the rapporteur. Business organisations have long claimed that some municipalities deliberately circumvent the EEA rules in competitive tendering. It is claimed that, as the Norwegian complaint and monitoring system operates today, the threshold is too high for many small and medium-sized enterprises to bring cases to light, even if it should have been done. A recently published report by FINNUT for the NHO shows that a majority of the companies in this survey would never go to the courts if they thought they had missed a public bidding round. Many suppliers indicated that they were afraid to be punished by subsequent tendering procedures if they complained. Another point is that it is considered a costly and heavy affair to initiate a complaint process. Thus, both economic and resource considerations mean that suppliers refrain from going to court. The main business organisation is of the opinion that there is a need for an independent body in Norway to which both contracting entities and suppliers can address when there is a need for assistance in specific cases. Such a body will be able to express its opinion at an earlier stage and much faster than a court. This may be positive to Norwegian enterprises that are faced with restrictions of competition in public acquisitions abroad, while at the same time it may be resource-saving. For the Progress Party, it is important that we have a system that is as effective as possible by selecting the supplier that has the best tender based on a number of predefined criteria. The reason why municipalities are required to comply with EEA legislation is to make greater use of each krona used in the public sector. That is why it is very important for us to take a stand in such a way that this can be realised for the benefit of taxpayers. The Progress Party meets the work of the sample to assess the Norwegian system of enforcement of public acquisitions and that the Government returns to the Stortinget with this. As we see it, there is a need for improvement in this area. I would like to raise the proposal from the Party of Advances and the Right, referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e211	The representative Hedstrøm has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e214	We need a new code for public procurement. Negligible legislation is inconclusive and difficult to obtain. Simplification must be a goal in all industrial policies. It usually means an improvement in efficiency in itself. The fact that this is a very large amount, nearly 200 billion kroner, does not make cleaning up less necessary. With such a large sum, and thus as great a title as possible for savings, there is a need for a clear and orderly regulation. Nevertheless, it makes sense for the Government to introduce a slightly more flexible procurement policy below the so-called thresholds, i.e. for the smaller amounts. Similarly, the Christian People's Party sees it as general polite respect not to impose obligations on the municipalities other than those arising from Norway's international obligations, when they have not been in the legislative process. Norway is obliged by both the WTO Agreements and by the EEA Agreements, other agreements as well, to ensure a level playing field for those included in the bidding round. The aim of the laws is precisely to ensure non-discrimination and full transparency for those offering goods and services to public bodies. Because everyone has the ability to win an offer round, prices may be pushed. It means a lot to the public sector. But this is obviously not just about price. There are other societal conditions for purchases. Proposals have been made to require a tax certificate and an HMS certificate, i.e. a health, environmental and insurance certificate. Similarly, purchasers shall consider life-cycle costs and environmental impacts of procurement without requiring extensive environmental calculations. It makes sense for society to make such social demands. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Government that it is a public task to secure a sufficient number of apprenticeship places in Norway. It is then important that companies that take responsibility for the training of new skilled workers and actually take an economic lift for society do not experience this as a competitive disadvantage in relation to public missions. So we're together with the multiples, who are asking for this to be taken into account in the design of the regulations. I see it as positive that the free man and the free woman create their own job; that's what is asking Norway. With a corporate structure where small and – perhaps we should call them – micro-enterprises are dominant, it is, of course, a challenge to define the concept of contracting activity unambiguously. Nevertheless, we feel that companies are quite clearly using contractors to circumvent professional justice and the social costs involved. Of course, that's unfortunate. It must be countered, as the Government is also fighting heavily. The majority also ask that regulations be designed to avoid this. The Christian People's Party believes that this is a law that can make public procurement more effective – that is also the objective – and that allows for monthly savings. Then we get a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e229	This is really a matter that is very much about how we are going to be able to do the primary public tasks in society. We have seen that in the last few months the headlines have been too much influenced by how the public has been unable to solve its tasks in the field of procurement, construction, etc., where cracks and almost scandals have been allowed to imprint the headlines. And this is on top. When we look at how the tasks may be carried out a little further down the system, there must be reason to believe that there does not have to be such a big difference in terms of purchasing, performing construction and construction tasks, etc. and investment over a low shoe, and that it may have a strong need to be reinforced and improved. The public is the biggest buyer, it's the biggest customer, no matter where we walk around the country. Either the State, the State or the primary municipality will appear as the absolute largest customer for the close suppliers and also for the central suppliers. This illustrates the need for more uniform legislation. In this context, it is claimed by most and more central suppliers that EEA legislation has been a blessing on the supplier side and, in other cases, a more or less forced solution that has also provided savings for the public sector. In the past, it has been very difficult to complain to those who felt that they were being unfairly treated. A more uniform and harmonised regulatory framework could provide greater justice and also provide better conditions for suppliers. What we're talking about now is initially the amount below the so-called thresholds. I think this is a positive case, which could significantly improve the opportunities for both parties. What is a little disappointing in this case is how the municipal sector has chosen to act. It does not help to show that you have a municipality's normal instructions. You choose to go with your hind legs first into this matter, such as. The central association of municipalities has chosen to do on this issue. Public procurement in Norway today accounts for more than DKK 200 billion per year. and the local government sector accounts for approx. half of this amount. When we also know, which is also referred to in the setting, that there is an efficiency potential up to 5 pst., it is not sustainable to say that the municipal sector will wait and see. A simple calculation is that 5 pst. Of 200 billion is 10 billion. So if we go down by the percentage and say that there's an efficiency potential of 2 pst. So we're talking about the amount of about $4 billion. And I'm sure there's a lot of imagination in this house too to see how in the public sector you can spend between 4 and 10 billion kroner. With regard to the questions that have been raised about the contractual clause and the apprenticeship clause, I would just like to say the following: I think it will be necessary to cultivate it purely in terms of purchasing policy in this case and not to interfere with the other aspects of the contract, which will only complicate the potential for efficiency improvement, and which in the second place is likely to lead to increased bureaucracy. Let it be the purchasing policy, and in other areas it is possible to follow what is going on around the problem of contractors. The same is true in apprenticeships. It is a unanimous committee that identifies the need for tax certificates and HMS certificates, and there has been a significant discussion here in the committee. I would recommend to SV, who has made a proposal today, whether or not to submit the proposal to the Government for further processing, because this has been taken into account during the committee discussion. The second thing I would like to say is: allow the issue of apprenticeship needs coverage to be covered in other contexts; allow apprentice policy to be the apprenticeship policy — not least in the interests of suppliers and in the interests of improved efficiency potential. I think all parties will stand on this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e250	As several speakers have pointed out earlier today, we are talking here about a sector that accounts for purchases that amounted to DKK 190 billion per year in 1996. years. So it's a major purchasing sector we're talking about here, and it's reasonable that both socio-economic and social impacts are being addressed. There are several issues that are important and which have been highlighted both in the legislative proposal and in the Committee's position. As stated in the proposition, it is important that the limited resources of society are used in the most socio-economic way possible. It is important that suppliers should be required to help promote the serious actors and remove the unprofessional ones. This is important and not least important in relation to follow-up – I would like to underline that. By making strict, but necessary, requirements for suppliers, there is also a particular responsibility to ensure that these requirements are really also followed up by suppliers. If you don't want to risk giving a competitive advantage to the unprofessional, those who don't follow these requirements, and you help that the opposite of what you want will happen: you promote the unprofessional and remove the serious players in the market. The majority of the Committee has elaborated on a few points and underlined what has been said by the Ministry of Proposition. This concerns the question of requirements for apprentices in establishments that have supplies to the public. A unilateral requirement for apprenticeship schemes will make it difficult for small enterprises to compete. However, on the other hand, those responsible for the training of new skilled workers must not be given a competitive disadvantage. On the contrary – taking responsibility must lead to a competitive advantage when the conditions are otherwise the same, which many people have had before me in this debate. The second point to which the majority of the Committee has referred is the question of the use of contractors. The majority support the Ministry's view that it is important for the public to take the lead in the fight against undeclared work and to work against unlucky and potentially illegal contractor activities. However, it is not always as easy to define what is unfortunate contractor activity and what are small businesses, which we all want to stimulate to take on a public mission. When the majority asks the Ministry to design regulations so that contractors can be managed in order to avoid professional rights and the social costs of having their own employees, this is, of course, because the majority of the Committee does not wish to see developments towards the widespread use of contractors in order to avoid that kind of liability. I see, of course, as it is underlined also in the comments of the majority and which underlie the position that lies there, that it may cause problems to define a clear definition of this in the regulations. But in my opinion, both of these points are so important that it is necessary for the ministry to clarify this, as the ministry has also underlined in the proposition, and as the majority have said in the vote. Furthermore, I see that SV has today made a proposal to develop guidelines for environmental concerns in purchasing. It should of course be, and it is absolutely necessary for the public to take a lot of account of purchases. The government has considered this to be so central that a provision on environmental considerations has been included in Section 6. I agree with what the department says in the proposition, that it would not make sense to bring this down to the regulatory level. A unanimous committee has agreed with the Ministry's proposal that this should be incorporated into the law and not be brought down to the regulatory level. I think that is sufficient, and on this basis I would urge SV to convert its proposal into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e263	What this case is about is actually issues that SV has been working on for many, many years, namely the way to make demands and use the market power of the public sector when they are big and important customers, to also demand clean and reasonable guidelines, rules of play, for business. Per Eggum Mauseth sat in the Town Hall in the 1980s when the Jap season took off so the silence in Oslo, and he worked hard and intensely to get a claim that everyone with whom the Municipality of Oslo was trading would deliver a tax certificate. It didn't win in the whole 1980s. Throughout the 1980s, it was simply the most unprofessional in the industry, no matter what industry it was, that could undermine those who tried to stick to policies and rules and win tenders in relation to the municipality. – So it was stopped by the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Labour Party. When SV joined the city council in 1991, this was one of the essential requirements that we included, namely that those with whom the municipality acted should have a tax certificate. And then we got it. Not long after that, when Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen started sniffing at the same thing when it came to state activities. Then we've got the EEA Agreement, and eventually more social issues have come into play. The public sector must use the power it actually has to prevent private enterprises from competing only on price, compete only in the worst possible working conditions, maximise the enjoyment of contractivities, and must set standards so as to encourage business to compete on quality. The papers shall be in order and shall be in order with the tax authorities. We are very pleased that the majority of the committee has clearly reduced the number of apprentices; all companies are responsible for keeping a professional competence in their industries. That also means that you have to contribute yourself, you can't leave that to all other companies. And that's what the majority of the committee is saying now, that they're actually going to be premiered. The same applies to contractor activities. It's not an unreasonable, small, filly bureaucratic device. This is about seriousness, especially in the construction industry, where there are many. And the more boom it is, the more sloppy the relationships are. So it's very good. The SV still feel a responsibility for maintaining ambitions in the environmental sector. We think it is well and good that general clauses are included in the environment, but we will not get so much further in this area either if it is not made concrete, if there are no clear rules on what to check. Therefore, it would have been important to have regulations that said something about how this should be done. It may get too rigid and rigid as well, because there may be quite a difference in what kind of goods and services you should have what kind of environmental clauses are, and it may be that this should in some way be made wider at the level of ideas. But at least I have got the Danish requirements in the environmental sector. This means that if the Government wants to, you can go further and see what has been done in other countries as regards the possibility of concretely specifying what environmental requirements should be. It is here that the competitive advantage of the future for many Norwegian companies will also lie that they are good in the environment. So this way, you can hit two flies in one taste, and also make the companies reach for something that can give them a competitive advantage later on. I would like to ask you to wait for what the minister says about the way the department might think about working on these things, and with this, I would like to take up the SV's proposal as it is distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e276	The representative Halvorsen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e279	Today’s law deals with simplification, efficiency and clean-up – simplification in the form of clearer rules, coordination of provisions and simpler procedures for both buyer and seller in this large market as public acquisitions are, efficiency in terms of the use of the market power of the public purchaser and the best possible means of securing taxpayers’ money, in the form of proper relations and the safeguarding of important common interest in the contracts concluded. The State's market power shall be used to require efficient and good goods and services, but shall also ensure that providers act with respect to laws and regulations and take care of their obligations towards society and its employees. It is positive that there is a broad consensus on everything essential in this case – from the sample that investigated it, via the Government to the Stortinget. The left is very satisfied with the inclusion of environmental legislation. The consideration of the environment must be not only related to individual matters but must be of a general nature and taken into account overall in all planning, acquisition and other activities. In previous treatments, this has been reflected in the Storting, and it is important that these overall policy objectives are also addressed in the specific case under consideration today. In the case of municipal acquisitions below the thresholds, this was not part of the mandate of the sample. The left records the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right that the Public Acquisitions Act should also apply to the municipal sector. The left understands the proposal and sees the benefits of its implementation in this context. Nevertheless, the Left believes that it must be right to wait with this now, but that a process is being set up in cooperation and understanding with the municipal sector. That signal I'm sure the department will take seriously and start such a work. Some conflict areas always exist when different considerations are to be taken into account. In the Committee, there has been some focus on the concept of contract and apprenticeship. The left considers that the majority formulations are well balanced between the different considerations. Contractors may be an unclear concept. On the one hand, we have seen examples of organisation that clearly intended to exempt companies from the obligations of the community. On the other hand, this must not be mixed with serious individual-member enterprises operating in accordance with the rules, which society needs and should encourage. Simplification and free competition for supplies to the public must also benefit small businesses. No mandatory requirements may be imposed on apprentices in order to obtain contracts with the public. Some companies may be too small to be able to have apprentices, and others may not be able to obtain apprentices. These must not be excluded. However, the use of apprentices, which is an important part of the social responsibility of business, must not be detrimental to competition. Regulations must be designed in such a way as to balance these considerations in line with what the Committee has said. Freedom in business and social common needs are often addressed to each other. For the Left, it is essential to find the good balance points, so that both considerations are dealt with in an optimal way, and so that both business and society can operate with common agreed rules. Today's law is a good example of such balancing for different reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e297	As the rapporteur said, and as stated in the documents, public acquisitions are about quite significant sums – 186 billion kroner. There's an incredible amount of money! 1 pst. efficiency gains amount to DKK 1.8 billion, and it could well be expected that the Storting will take a look at the implementation of policy priorities. But unfortunately, the usual thing is that it's not going to be cheaper when the bills are finally due. The usual thing is that goods and services are becoming more expensive than what you would have thought. It is therefore quite clear that public guidelines on how to deal with this wide range of public producers of goods and services need to be regulated and it needs to be regulated in such a way as to stimulate cleanness and fairness. I want to point to two aspects in particular. One is the combination of the requirement for a tax certificate and the anti-contractual clause. I think it is quite obvious, and all the experience – especially from the construction industry – shows that the requirement for the cleanness of the companies that submit tenders also provides better opportunities for the quality of the product they are supplied, and greater certainty that there is no handicrafts who write bills with forks after the product has been delivered. The requirement for a tax certificate is therefore an absolute prerequisite for dealing with people who are clean in their own business. I am pleased that this is being maintained, and that it must be one of the elements of the demands of the public to the business community. It is also related to the clauses that we have wanted for many years to have contained in the regulations, which are designed to prevent contractors who deliberately seek to avoid collective agreements and rules in the business sector from having a competitive advantage over public tenders. I therefore sincerely hope that the department will be able to draw up guidelines that affect contractors, but will benefit those who operate seriously, including sole proprietorships. The second point that I want to mention is this with apprentices. From time to time, it is heard that apprentices are responsible for the state and the public. But it's not like that. The business community has a self-interest in having people on apprenticeship contracts in order to obtain the necessary skilled labour. It must not be such that only the serious, heavy companies who see this responsibility and who will bear the cost of providing this country with the skilled labour force we need. The business community also has a self-interest in ensuring that the state develops guidelines for its acquisition activities that give priority in many ways to those who take social responsibility by acquiring apprentices. And I have to say that it is fully possible to bet on apprentices also for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is in that way that they will be able to work further in the future as well, and be able to meet the challenges of the future. So finally, there's also a tendency to be so that the individual level is very concerned about what's in the ethnology's own interest -- if you can only earn a few dollars on the budget you have in your budget, you're satisfied. Many times it seems that it is difficult to see the overall considerations of public activity as such. It is disappointing to see that the Riksrevision in its report to the Stortinget, which has looked at the use of this by some departments in making tax claims, can prove that some agencies are slumbering with this. I don't think it has to do with lack of knowledge, I think it has to do with the desire to get the money for your own budget to go as far as possible, so the responsibility for the whole thing is actually with someone else. With clear and unambiguous rules given in transparent guidelines, it will be possible for each department and the National Audit Office to carry out a check on this, making it possible for us to achieve the best results for all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e308	The representative of Kosmo is entitled to an incredible amount of money spent on public procurement. The most up-to-date figures show that in 1997 these amounted to a total of NOK 206 billion, which is equivalent to about 19 p.p. of Norway's gross domestic product. In other words, public acquisitions represent a very large market for Norwegian business. At the same time, increased competition for public contracts could lead to considerable savings for the public sector. For example, 2 pst. savings in this market amount to DKK 4 billion in reduced costs per year. years, and I'm sure the Minister of Finance would appreciate being able to dispose of it. It therefore appears to be an important socio-economic objective to ensure that public acquisitions are carried out in a way that involves the most efficient use of resources, both in the public sector and in industry. To achieve this goal of effective acquisitions, it is essential that we have legislation that is easy for the purchasers to deal with and for suppliers to deal with. Today, the situation is that the legislation is somewhat unwieldy and complicated, among other things. because in the implementation of the EEA rules there was no time for a comprehensive audit and coordination with existing instructions. Therefore, current legislation is not suitable enough to comply with the basic principles laid down in the EEA Agreement and the commercial considerations of procurement law should be respected. The Committee for the Revision of the Public Acquisitions Code has made a broadly unanimous proposal for new legislation, and the hearing bodies have largely endorsed the committee's proposal for a new law. The government has substantially followed the recommendations of the sample. I am also pleased to note that the Economic and Social Committee also largely shares the Government's view on the importance of effective and simplified rules in this area. Municipal acquisitions below the thresholds were not covered by the mandate of the sample. However, the committee has noted in its investigation that common legislation on state and municipal acquisitions will be most appropriate, including: because a common regulatory framework will be severalfold easier to deal with for Norwegian business. I have noticed that the Business Committee sees the benefits of a common regulatory framework for state and municipal acquisitions, and from the Committee's point of view, I would like to contact the municipal sector with a view to assessing a common regulatory framework, including for smaller acquisitions not covered by the EEA and WTO agreements. As far as provisions of a more social nature are concerned, the Government has proposed to continue the requirement for a tax certificate and, in addition, to introduce an HMS declaration confirming that the companies are complying with the internal control regulation and the builder’s regulation. In my opinion, these measures will make a good contribution to preventing unprofessional actors from being given a public mandate. I have noticed that the majority of the Business Committee specifically asks the Government to design the regulations so that one avoids providers who use contractors to circumvent professional rights and social costs by having their own employees. I want to address this and consider how the regulations can ensure that suppliers do not circumvent the social rights of employees by choosing an organisational form. At the same time, regulations must not be designed to affect legitimate small businesses and to create unnecessary use of resources by public purchasers and businesses. I have also noticed that the majority of the Business Committee asks the Government to design the regulations so that companies with apprentices are given a competitive advantage. In line with the leadership of the Economic and Social Committee, the regulations will be drawn up with a particular focus on the apprenticeship situation. At the same time, I need to ensure that the regulations are drafted in the framework of the EEA rules. I will also, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research, assess the apprenticeship situation so that actions can be used specifically to increase the number of apprenticeships in enterprises. Among other things, we must: avoid a provision on apprentices affecting enterprises in industries where access to apprentices may be difficult. Finally, several of the debaters have addressed the issue of environmental requirements in public procurement. The government has given so much attention to the fact that we have chosen to have a separate paragraph in the law where emphasis on environmental protection knew acquisitions, and not to include them in regulations. However, further follow-up and enforcement of these rules will require good guidance and practical examples of how things can be done to public purchasers. I appreciate the transmission of the SV's proposal, which is fully consistent with the Government's intentions, in order to take these considerations into account when the practical guidance is to be developed for public purchasers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e327	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e330	It was interesting to listen to the statements of the Council of State, which were consistent with a lot of what has been said in this case from the pulpit today on public acquisitions. It should be a simple piece of legislation, and it should allow for savings. Then I don't understand that the government now almost per. have immediately entered in order to include the municipal and county sectors for purchases below the thresholds. It should not be a major problem to have the same predefined criteria for the whole public sector. We know that KS has its own normal instructions for the municipalities and had an observer in the work that was done in connection with the investigation on which this bill is based. Our Minister of Industry has always said himself that he is a champion of small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway. With the huge procurement market in the EEA and the competitive situation in which Norwegian small and medium-sized enterprises are located on this market, it is appropriate to work actively to achieve maximum robustness today. Now it's going to be investigated and evaluated, and it was the Council of State also inside. It is well and good, but this is a handshake for small and medium-sized enterprises and their competitive situation today. Why does the Minister of Industry not want to give priority to this, so that we can make this legislation include the municipal sector per. Right away?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e337	I agree very much with the premises of the representative Hedstrom here. It is absolutely crucial – and perhaps the most important consideration since, in spite of everything, we deal with public purchasers, as we also have other governance mechanisms – that we have a regulation and a law that is the easiest and easiest possible for businesses to deal with, and that feels and is fair across, so that it becomes an honest competition. In isolation, of course, it would be desirable for me and the government to take the municipalities from the very first moment, but the municipalities were not mature for that, as we know from hearing opinions and involvement in the municipal sector. We have municipal autonomy, and we must have a reasonable degree of respect for the local authorities' own views on how quickly they are willing to move forward in this area. The government has not planned to wait long. We intend to follow up the Storting decision by quickly initiating a dialogue with the municipalities about this. That would in itself also be the consequence of the proposal made by the Right and the Advance Party. This is being followed, so I can't see that there are major conflicts around this. I also noticed clearly that the case rapporteur, on behalf of the majority of the Committee, expressed a strong wish that the next time we come back to this, and that it might not be that long, the municipalities should also be included for amounts below the thresholds.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e346	First to the last recorded, about the municipal sector. It is not the case that the majority disagree with the inclusion of the municipal sector for below-threshold purchases, but we respect the need to have a proper democratic form of work. In fact, I believe that when the local government sector comes to grips with it, they see great advantages with this as purchasers of goods and services. So I think this is going to work, and I think what the council says, promises well. I would also like to express my satisfaction for the Council of State's clarification relating to both apprentices and contractors. I just want to ask the council a little bit about this, because we're talking like this is something new we're going to start with. It isn't. There is a difference between something we have had for quite a long time, in part in the state and in many municipalities and municipalities. In Rogaland County, a co-ordinated county selection decided to continue with these clauses. I just want to make sure that the Council of States when he's going to work on the balance points of these two areas, apprentices and contractors, draws on those who have made experience of it. I also know that these clauses have been quite comprehensive in connection with the Gardermoban in any case, and it may well be the next article that comes into it. Will the Council of State assure us that he will take this into account, so that one can draw the good experience that we have already done?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e353	I can assure the rapporteur-in-Office that in the further work on following up the position being taken today, and the decisions being taken and drawing up regulations, we will, of course, draw up changes in both the experience gained through different rules in this field, and of course on the social partners to find out the necessary emphasis on the balance points I think we agree on. On the one hand, we have to clear out what we can say is unprofessional, which is about contractors, without saying that we wash the child out with the bath water. Small businesses and sole proprietorships are allowed to operate and to be part-contractors, and here we need to find a regulatory framework that is also within the framework set by EEA legislation in order to have honest and effective competition. Not least on the apprentice side, these considerations will be important to take into account and, of course, cooperation with the social partners will also be important when preparing the regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e358	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e361	It is almost alarming that there is such a broad political deal about this matter as it is, but the more happy it is. On the one hand, it is a question of ensuring that public funds are used as efficiently and rationally as possible, but at the same time, it is a question of facilitating clean relationships in more social areas. So, in this context, we are doing a good job of making the public a marketer that can guide other parts of our society. So to the sides of this thing where it's unsavory. When it relates to the municipal sector, which the Right Party and the Progress Party are so concerned about getting below the threshold, I don't think it's too bad, even after I've heard so far in the debate, that this is desirable. But it's a question of how fast you're going to go forward. With the assurances now given by the Council of State to follow this up, I'm pretty sure it's not long before we come to the conclusion here that the municipal sector will be included in purchases below the thresholds, because it's not like the politicians in the municipalities are less concerned with good use of resources than we are. Now let's take some time to do this without a fight. I'm sure it's better than for us to push it through against the will of the community sector. So a little bit about apprentices. I am aware that there may be difficulties in having an apprentice requirement, but it should be possible to design it so that it is not an absolute requirement. In this context, as in other contexts, there's no doubt that creating a hold is an important part of what a drive does. And it's quite obvious that there's a requirement one should try to live by, that companies that contract with the public should have apprentices. It will focus on companies having apprentices. It's the only way that Norwegian business can keep up their professional level. I've always been amazed at how many companies have counter-figures against having apprentices – they claim it's so expensive. I had almost said that a company that does not have apprentices undermines its own existence. So to contractors. It is quite obvious that there is a close connection between tax certificates and contractors. It's about complying with public laws and rules, and that's what we should do to follow up. Finally, let me just say that this has been tried, even if we didn't have any permission at that time. Both in the case of the Gardermoban and Gardermoen, this was taken into account in the supply documents as demands, and it has worked and worked well. So one can claim that this is a big project, and it's big entrepreneurs, and that's why it's easier. But it should be known that there have been many small entrepreneurs inside these two projects. I'm pretty sure the Council of State and the Department here will find formulations that will be appropriate. And if they're having trouble with it, it's just to turn to another department that has the text, that's the Ministry of Transport. Let me just at the same time encourage Kristin Halvorsen to turn his proposal into a transmission proposal, because after hearing the Council of State, I am pretty sure it will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e376	Those who speak the following shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e379	It was in order to comply with the request I have now received from several people to convert the proposal for a transmission proposal, that I drew myself on the list of speakers. I think the Council of State has an interest in and a willingness to do something in this field, and it's better to take care of what is actually done when you get that far. I would like to stress that in many other countries there are quite strict requirements in this respect, specified in circulars or even in the form of law. And it is clear that setting such a standard and such a requirement for business in a country also contributes to the development of a competitive advantage that becomes important. In this way, it is possible to ensure that the environmental standard of public investment is as high as possible and that enterprises have future-oriented competences in the areas in which we know consumers will be more interested in in the future. So this proposal has been turned into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e392	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e404	Since the case's rapporteur is a member of the Lagtinget, the first speaker is Tore Nordtun.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e407	First I want to bring up a proposal from myself on behalf of the Workers' Party. In the 1999 budget of the Bondevik Government, as is well known, the contribution to gas and auto-diesel freight dissipation was withdrawn from the State budget. Instead, the Regje ring wanted a self-financing fee-based scheme. The new scheme, which was to replace the old scheme, was first submitted to the Stortinget at the beginning of December last year, and the majority of the population then, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Right and the SV, rejected the Government's proposal for the scheme because it was too poorly investigated and the consumer organisations were not heard. And that's what today is the committee's recommendation in the Inner East. O. No 26. As the government had not spent any money to possibly extend the old scheme, we are known without any shipping compensation scheme from January this year. The working party is in principle in favour of a defrosting scheme, but would stress that such a scheme should be targeted primarily at edge areas with high freight costs. The system we had up to 31 December 1998 has weaknesses in the context I mentioned here, but it is our clear belief that the system must work until a more targeted system is in place. The effect of the loss of the anti-sampling system, especially in the districts, underlines to the greatest extent that we need a system to work now before we possibly get a new and better one. I have noticed that the government parties today in Stortinget are promoting a Document No. 8 proposals to reintroduce the old anti-freight system, in line with the principles set out in the Labour Party's proposal put forward by me today. I would like to point out that we asked the Minister of Finance in the spontaneous question about this a week ago, and that is a lot of his answer then that is the background to our proposal, which we submitted on 13 January. We had to take an initiative, because we realized then that the finance minister would await the treatment in Stortinget. Although the Financial Committee's recommendation was quite clear, the Finance Minister would not do anything until the Stortinget had said so. Therefore, we immediately promoted the proposal that until a new system is on the steps, a better and safer and more targeted system, we must have the old system that was in place on 31 December 1998. We had to take the initiative, and that is why we promoted the proposal. The fact that the government parties are now set to move to the old arrangement is good for us. We see that we can get something in common now. But it's a little special that you didn't give those signals in December, when you had the system. It was then on the government's proposal, and it is also done in the recommendation today. Today, however, government parties are promoting a Document No. Eight proposals in the Storting, which is really just like the Labour Party proposal eight days earlier, to go back to the old system. But okay, we'll talk about it, and we'll get it done. It is nice that this can happen, but it came a little late, because we should have had the system right away on the rails from January 1999. And that's why, as I said, we from the Workers' Party were eager to ask the Minister of Finance in the spontaneous Question Time on 12 January, but after the answer we got at that time, we had to put forward a proposal in connection with the treatment in Odelstinget today, which is the first odelsting in the new year. And here the case is taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e426	The representative of Nordtun has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e429	This could quickly become a debate about who came first, the chicken or the egg. Now I'm not going to say whether the Workers' Party is the hen or the egg and the vice versa as far as the centre is concerned, but there can now be a quick discussion here on the order in which proposals have been made to reintroduce an old system, a system that was thus voted down in the budgetary procedure. And it's kind of the curious thing about this whole thing that the government is proposing through the state budget to cancel the existing system, now called the old system, and then, after the budgetary procedure has been concluded, to put forward a motion for a resolution to introduce a new one. In my opinion, both of these should have been seen in the context of the budgetary procedure, but this did not happen. As we now examine the proposal for a new regime, Tore Nordtun excellently explained why a majority in Komi teen believes that there is good reason to send the proposition back to the Government for further investigation. There is no reason, on the part of the Progress Party, to take up the fundamental debate on the system of freight balancing now, since there is both a proposal from the Workers' Party and a proposal from the Centre which will be discussed in this Chamber at a later stage. Nevertheless, it is tempting to say that many of these problems could have been solved if, for example, The Progress Party's proposal for a strong reduction in gas taxes across the country had been adopted. It is not very easy to flatten the prices of any goods throughout Norway and believe that it would cost nothing to achieve such a price smoothing. But by reducing charges across the country, everyone would benefit from the fact that we are actually an oil producing nation, and we should be able to afford to reduce the fee. But that debate will at least take place at a later stage and only now note that we are sending this matter back to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e436	I don't think we're going to spend time explaining and allocating guilt because we don't now have any arrangements, but rather we're going to look forward and see how we can find decent solutions. What we have to ask you is why we want a system of anti-smoothing. From my point of view, it is because we want to reduce the extra costs that business and private individuals get with long transport of fuel. This is a goal that is based on facilitating the maintenance of the country-wide busses. Why transport aid for fuel? Yeah, because fuel is an energy bearer, which is a device for the development of business and to keep up the bus charge. Here I want to compare it to another energy bearer, that's electricity, and the system we have for cushioning the cost of transporting it. It has been suggested that transport costs should be around the same without regard to distance, and that scheme is also self-financing. Government proposal in Ot.prp. No 22 is based on the same principle. That's why I think the government proposal would give the desired effect. This would be a system that would give total cross-sampling. I am also aware and have noticed the Competition Authority's comments on the scheme we have had until December 31st last year. The comments suggest that it is necessary to see whether other systems may work better. Now we have to bear in mind that the majority of the financial committee and here in Odelstinget do not find the proposed scheme well enough elaborated, and that the majority also believe that the deadline for hearing the regulations would be too short. We'll take note of that. For this reason, we also found it necessary to produce a Document No. Eight proposals today. It is not contrary to the Workers' Party's proposal, but it is simply practical to save time, as the Workers' Party's proposal meant that it would first go to the Department, and then the Department would come to the Stortinget. In order to save time and to prevent the districts from suffering from the fact that there is no system, we took the initiative and put forward that proposal. I think that there must be a part of the scheme itself that will come, a system that will be better and more targeted, and I trust that the Ministry of Finance will have power. With this, I will record the submitted from the minority, which is included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e453	Lars Gunnar Lie has mentioned it presented by the minority to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e456	1999 is the first year since 1946 when there is no cargo balancing scheme for fuels in Norway. I guess not many people had expected it to be one of the central government's first handshakes to District Norway, but that's what happened. It's not a coincidence. It is a result of a wild and deliberate policy, and the misleading and conscious policy is that the Government proposed zero funding for freight balancing in the budget. At the same time, the government did not send the budget to the Stortinget a proposal for another so-called self-financing freight balancing. If the government had wanted parallelity in treatment, as usual, it would have been promoted as part of the budget. The government didn't. I assume – and I assume – that there is always a thought behind the government's actions. It's possible that it's overestimating, but I'm basing it on it. I can also be such a debater – perhaps an indisputable – as to say that during the budgetary negotiations that took place, and I was in all meetings, there was never a word about the parties with which you were supposed to obtain a majority, that you also wanted to support a so-called self-financing freight balancing. I understand that, because this proposal is not new. The new thing is that it's promoted by the Ministry of Finance, although you might get a little doubt about it even when you read the proposition, because rarely have I seen a proposition thinner and written with less professional experience and enthusiasm than just this proposition. On the other hand, the proposal did not come from the Ministry of Finance's intellectual departments, but from the representative Gudmund Restad, who in a somewhat simpler version has promoted this proposal time and again in Stortinget and received varying support, but never from the parties he is now asking for support from. So I don't know what kind of political under-hope would happen by these parties, including the Right, now suddenly going in and supporting some sort of private charging scheme, that is, a kind of earmarking of part of a fee for some purposes – a thought that Minister of Finance Restad has expressed strongly against in other contexts. It was with open eyes and with all anticipation that this proposal did not reach a majority. Now it is getting a return with a relatively clear message that this is not well established and that consultations have not been carried out. I understand that in particular, because the consultations carried out informally in the Financial Committee have given the proposal the character ‘not passed’. And has the Minister of Finance assessed whether the proposal is in line with the EEA Agreement, keeping some oil companies out of the scheme? Finally, a small note about Document No. The 8th proposal, which has not been promoted but which has been mentioned. It is a relatively new practice that government parties promote their own propositions – because it is in a way a kind of proposition. And the question I'm asking is, why in the world does the government not promote a post-appropriations proposal if it thinks it's a post-appropriations need? It's basically the usual, although I remember the Finance Minister's letter to the Finance Committee when we asked why he had been emptying the various items, and what was going to happen. In an exchange of letters with the Committee in October/November last year, the Minister of Finance said that this required a very high degree of restraint in relation to supplementary appropriations. So it was written last year, but it was about the budget year we are now in the first month of. It is possible that that is why the Government does not promote a proposition on freight balancing grants as a grant, but a decision based on the non-foreign Document No. In fact, the 8 proposal will have the same effect. I react a little to the fact that you choose such a form and do not allow the government parties to go through their government, as is normal. Finally, I can form this as a question to the Minister of Finance: What is the reason why the Government does not see the need for – and promote proposals for – additional funding for freight balancing?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e469	The government is running in St.prp. No 1 for 1998-99 by the Ministry of Labour and Administration, as the case-leaders have done well, to propose to wind up the fuel delivery system with effect from 1 January 1999. In this proposition, it was announced that the Government would propose a new self-financed system based on full freight dithering, contrary to the old scheme that only partially covers freight costs. Through the ordinary budgetary management in Stortinget, there was no proposal for a licence for the continuation of the old scheme. On 4 December last year, the Government presented a draft budget, as a warning in connection with the draft budget early in October, with proposals to legislate a self-financing system. The new scheme is, in my opinion, well done in terms of the proposition, and aims to ensure that everyone pays the same amount of freight costs on fuel as they do in the country. The scheme shall be self-financing through a fund to which the oil company pays, based on the number of litres of petrol and automotive diesel delivered. What is involved in the payment of cargo charges to companies will initially be passed on, but will be adapted to the objective of better cushioning the price of fuel between district and central area. On this basis, we in the Central Party were and are ready to make a decision: we support the proposal put forward by the Government, which follows the vote, and which Lars Gunnar Lie mentioned earlier in the debate. If the majority in Odelstinget had been of the same opinion, today we would have a system. The aim of the Centre Party is that people living in District Norway who do not have as many collective offerings as they do in central areas should not be penalised extra through higher fuel prices. It is an important principle that has to do with both distribution policy, district policy and industrial policy. In my opinion, the hallmark of a relevant district policy is that it takes public responsibility to compensate for the disadvantages of living and doing business in the districts. Keeping busy and business in the districts is important to take care of our commodity economy, which is the basis of our entire economic life. The centre party therefore sees it as important to achieve a anti-fracture system that is fair for busets and businesses in the district of Norway. Many statements and letters from individuals, businesses and local government around the country underline the importance of this matter. When the majority in Odelstinget today will not decide on the new scheme, but will send the matter back to the Government for further details, I will take it for information. It doesn't mean, as I understand the plurality and what they're saying now, that one is inconsistent with the government in that there's a need for a scattering order. I argued that when the government – and the ministry – get it back, this issue gives so high priority that the Stortinget will be remanded early in the spring session. For the Center Party and the Center Party, it's important that we don't stay standing without a system at all. The Centre Party, therefore, today has a concrete proposal to temporarily reintroduce the system of freight surcharges above the State budget, and to do so, from 1 February to 30 June of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e486	Let me first correct the representative Nordtun, who mistakenly said that SV here is with the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right. We're not. We are with the centre parties and Mr. Bastesen – without great enthusiasm. For the case-handling team, a long look must be made – it is described by many speakers before me. It cannot be possible, with some degree of seriousness, first to withdraw a scheme and then then to say that you should come back to the tame of the session with a completely new scheme that is not explored. And at the top of everything, we feel that the same parties, the centre parties, are submitting a proposal to Odelstinget on the same day that the matter is to be dealt with! A certain degree of seriousness should be expected from government parties. I assume that the reason must be that one has ended up in an alliance with the Right and the Advance Party as, as Mr. Foss quite correctly said, one could never expect to support this scheme. And that means you've kind of taken your pants down and now see the price of the alliance you've chosen to go into. That being said, we have always wanted a anti-fracture system. We wanted the scheme that was. We will then also support the proposal that exists, simply because it is, after all, better than no system. That means that we will contribute to the majority of a system, which system it now has to be. At the same time, you might also have to have a certain degree of soberness on the question, because it's not like that, even if we've had a freight equalization scheme every year, the gas price in our long-range country has been the same. On the contrary, the price of petrol in the districts is higher, and it has been in every year than it is in the central district. And it's because of completely different mechanisms than the anti-aliasing system that we have here. I guess no one imagines that people move to town because they get cheaper petrol than they get in District Norway. There's completely different mechanisms that work here. But it's clear, a defrosting system helps to some extent compensate for the extra cost of transporting fuel into our piggy country. That's why we're positive about such a system, and we've always wanted to support it. What becomes the paradox here, I think, is primarily the procedure, which is under every criticism and which should rightly be ridiculed. That means that the government has hopefully learned a little bit about how to act. Not least, we should also now take the consequence of the alliance we have voluntarily chosen to enter into, with two parties that are obviously opposed to that kind of arrangement. What you experience today is the price you have to pay. We then get to accept the unprofessional procedure, and SV is going to help create a majority for some scheme, primarily the one we had until January. If it turns out that the government isn't coming back with it, we're going to have to contribute another arrangement, which is probably the arrangement that's in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e500	The fuel accounting system is of vital importance for businesses and people in the districts. The removal of the scheme is almost a disaster for some companies, entrepreneurs and, for example: mining operators who use large quantities of fuel and have calculated their operations with freight smoothing. There may be several hundred thousand dollars in extra costs for some large companies. Then I have not thought about the private ones and the individual has to use the car as a means of delivery. They're also coming in. The examination of this case and the submission are critical. Where the majority of the Committee could not agree to the system for which proposals had been submitted because it was too poorly investigated and submitted, they went in to send the matter back to the Government for better investigation. It was just supposed to be missing. But the worst thing is that the freight balancing system has been removed without being replaced by anything else. It just doesn't matter! It's to trick people, it's to trick businesses, and it's to trick business, which has based its operations and its assumptions on the financial framework that existed before this year started. Therefore, the old scheme that we had must be introduced as soon as possible until a new scheme is presented by the Government. In this way, I can support the proposal promoted by Tore Nordtun, and to the extent that Document No. The 8-proposal that was delivered in Stortinget earlier today. For me, it does not matter which proposal is adopted. What is important is that there will be a system that will be put in place as soon as possible. People have a right to that. They are entitled not to be directly tricked into doing business and when they are going to do business and create values for the benefit of society as a whole. These are certain framework conditions. There's something called popularism, and it's not possible to be so free from popularism that you do something like this and take away a system that people expect. I don't have much more to add. I would like to support the proposal presented by Mr Nordtun.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e511	The current approach indicates that this matter is now being sent back to the Government for further processing, and the speeches in the debate confirm that it will. That is why I see no intention now of going into depth as to the reality of the matter, because we will get back to that when the matter is brought before Stortinget again. And that will happen as soon as we can. However, let me make a few comments, and I have also been asked questions that I should answer. I think that it is used quite strong words about how the hair traveler should have treated this matter, among other things. from the Djupedal. For what has happened is that the government has made a proposal to wind up the old scheme, financed by the government budget, and replaced it with a new one. It shows that the Government is very concerned about the existence of a fractal balancing system. And we believe that the scheme proposed in Ot.prp. No 22, for several reasons, would be better than the scheme that we proposed to wind up from the turn of the year. It's better, among other things. This is because expenditure on the State budget is being saved. It is primarily better because it results in full freight smoothing and not only partial freight smoothing, as the system we have had until the turn of the year. In addition, it has the advantage that the fuel dealers around the country who try to explain that they are taking high prices on the fuel will no longer be able to explain that they have large freight charges. Because it is that the difference in fuel prices due to freight costs could amount to a maximum of only 7 cents, i.e. nothing near the 1-2 cents difference in fuel prices that you have seen a number of examples. So there are other reasons why we have these differences, first of all there is a difference in competition in the different parts of the country. The government believes that the case was sufficiently well prepared to take a law decision. It was obvious that we should have a further investigation and consultation round before the final regulations were laid down. But there are not major changes proposed in relation to today's system. In principle, there is only one difference, namely that the new scheme rather than being financed by a grant of the State budget is proposed to be financed by a contribution – not a levy, but a contribution – from the five-six oil companies we have here in the country. But it doesn't matter what the government thinks, it's the Storting's word that's crucial if there's a disagreement between government and collapse, and so the majority of people believe that the matter was too poorly resolved and therefore send it back and ask for some things in particular. It is specifically mentioned that it is necessary to clarify whether and to what extent the subsidy scheme contributes to the effective balancing of fuel prices. I assume that it has its background in an opinion of the Competition Authority, which has raised doubts as to whether the grant scheme contributes to a price smoothing. But I think that what we have seen from 1 January until now is a good enough test of whether it contributes or not, because we see that when the fractal balancing system disappeared from 1 January, there were quite dramatic increases in the fuel prices in the districts. In my opinion, this is a good enough proof that the freight offset system works, but of course it doesn't seem so strong that you get equal prices across the country. Then you've asked for a regulation to be drawn up for both the payments and the payments, and that's a matter of course. It is announced in the odelstingsproposition that a temporary regulation will be drawn up, which must have been in force from 1 January if the law had been passed, and a final regulation, which was adopted with effect from 1 January, but after it had been out for consultation. As far as the payment is concerned, it will in practice be a continuation of the system currently in place and operate under the exact same system and will continue to be administered by the Competition Authority. As I said, the only difference would be that instead of the annual grant decisions in Stortinget, you got a scheme in which an amount was to be paid from the oil companies. It is not very complicated to get a contribution from the oil companies, so I do not feel that there is a need for a lot of investigation beyond that. It is also mentioned as a moment when the organisation and management of the Fund must be clarified. How it has been thought, I have so far mentioned, and it is described in the Odelstingsproposition how it should be organised, namely with a payment of the contribution via the Tax Directorate with a transfer to the Competition Surveillance Authority for payment as before – a relatively small change. Finally, it is requested that the relevant interests and consumer organisations be consulted. This would have been done in the preparation of regulations. And that will of course also happen now. As soon as I got acquainted with the suspension, I made sure to start working in the department with a view to developing the consultation material so as not to waste time. Work has come so far that the necessary documents will be sent for consultation in a relatively short time, probably around the end of the month of January/February. Then there will be a six-week consultation period, and as soon as it is over, the government will process the matter and make a new proposition that is promoted for the Stortinget. I am pleased with the signals given here in the debate that there is clearly a majority for a system, and I hope that the system that is then proposed will be satisfactory, so that a majority here can gather on it. I have registered that both the Workers' Party and SV, in addition to the government parties, have signaled a positive willingness to achieve a freight balancing arrangement. So there were a couple of questions and information. First, Per-Kristian Foss. He pointed out that in all the negotiations that both he and I participated in before Christmas, there was no mention of the freight balancing system. That's right. It was not mentioned, and there were many other things that were not mentioned either. That's because at the bottom of the negotiations was the government's and government's budget line, and as long as the opposition, i.e. the Right or the Advance Party, did not promote anything that they would have changed, we assumed that what was in the cards was accepted. Neither the Progress Party nor the Right stated that it would go against the alert – it was not yet concretely promoted at the time, but announced – the self-financing freight balancing system. Had it been taken up, it would of course have been a negotiating theme. Whether you'd come to an agreement or not, it's impossible to have any opinion about. But then it had at least been mentioned. What became the subject of the negotiations was what the two parties wanted to change in relation to the arrangements of the Government and Government parties. Fortunately, we came up with solutions that I'm very happy with. So Per-Kristian Foss also asked why the government is not proposing the reintroduction of the old scheme. It is not that the Government can promote a concise proposal for treatment in the Grand Duchy at the same time. The government must have a plan, and so the government's plan was a new one. Before you know what the Storting – or in this case the Odelstinget – thinks about the proposed scheme, there is no reason to promote anything else from the Government. I also replied in the Questionnaire – a mention of what Tore Nordtun said. That is why the Government could not take any initiative at the moment. That doesn't mean, as I said, that the government isn't concerned about having a freight balancing system, and it's only now that voting that we finally confirmed what Odelstinget means. But I think it is constructive of the government parties, who have now investigated and have been confirmed that this odelsting proposal will be sent back, in order to save time today has promoted a Document No. Eight proposals, so you don't have to waste time that you would have done if the government would normally promote a new landfill proposition. It takes some time, and here we save time, so that it is now possible to reintroduce the old system from 1 February, provided that it becomes a majority for it, which I expect. It will then apply until, hopefully, a new arrangement has been adopted on the part of the spring. I think that's what I had to say.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e537	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e540	First a few comments and then finally a question to the Minister of Finance. Ot. pp. No 22 was submitted to Stortinget on 5 December 1998, and the Stortinget broke up before Christmas 18 December. It goes without saying that in such a short time it is very difficult to deal with a total conversion of the freight balancing system, so it is totally incomprehensible to me that this government does not deal with this matter and tidy up the state budget towards the Stortinget. But then I'm also going to give some signals from our side: we're not anti-fracture smoothing. I've said that several times. However, the Minister of Finance must be aware that we have not taken a position on the so-called self-financing freight balancing system set up. I think the finance minister should notice that. Furthermore, we are not of the opinion that the price increase that has occurred on petrol, alone, is due to the freight smoothing. No, there's a price adjustment that has happened that might be due to more than just the freight balancing, that's a charge. When it comes to whether the document is bad or good, it is very good at one point, and that is how the money is to be brought in. But that is not good enough in relation to how this money is to be distributed. That's our anchor point. It's clear that most of the balancing funds go to the central strata where the volume of petrol sales is the largest, and that's not what we're going to be into. Finally, does the Minister of Finance really think that the funding mechanism that was in place by the Government should initially benefit the central lines?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e555	I'm going to give the representative Nordtun right that the Stortinget didn't have a very long time to think about it, but it was at least so that the odelstingsproposition existed on December 5, and that was before the Ministry of Labour and Administration was dealt with, so if you reacted very strongly, you had the opportunity to continue the arrangement you had before. So that didn't happen, and that's why we're going to share a little bit of responsibility for the fact that for a month now you haven't had a fractal balancing system. Nordtun further characterises the Government's proposal as a total conversion of the freight balancing system. What I think is exaggerating. So the conversion that is taking place is that, according to the proposal in the Odelstingsproposition, this is financed, not by a grant made by the Stortinget, but by a collection of contributions from five to six oil companies. There is no total conversion, for the use of this money is assumed to be done as before, under the old scheme. Then it's probably true that most things in dollars and ears go to relatively central areas. This is because it is where most fuel users live, and it is where the most fuel is sold. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that the effect is much greater in the districts, because there are freight costs beyond seven cents per cent. liters that have been compensated according to the scheme we had before. Of course, it is increasing with the distance from the tankers, so the effect has obviously been greatest in the districts, although a lot of them. One hundred million. kr in the year in which the freight balancing system has cost has gone to relatively central areas. The most central areas don't get anything, because they have shipping costs below seven cents per cent. liters. I don't have time to say anything much more than this, but my point is that we don't intend to reverse the payment scheme itself, it's the funding that is proposed to be done in another way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e566	It is very tempting to ask both the Council of State and, in particular, the central parties to think twice about it, because it is not that the Ministry of Labour and Administration's budget had not been finalised and that it could be withdrawn into a negotiating situation. There was a budgetary agreement between the Centre Parties, the Right and the Advance Party signed by all five Parties. Then you can question whether the freight balancing system was part of it. It will, at least, discuss in more detail before the examination of both the new Document No. The 8th proposal and the proposal of the Labour Party presented today. But I think there must be reason to have a little more respect for the agreements that have been concluded, linked to a budget. In fact, the Government itself proposed to remove the old freight balancing mechanism in the 1999 budget. It accepted both the Right Party and the Advance Party, and we did not raise any objections to it during the negotiations, because we thought it was okay. And when the Council of State stands on this pulpit and says that if we thought there was a basis for anything else, we would notify it, I would say, yes, exactly, we fully accepted the removal of the old system. And although the government had announced that it would bring a new case, it was not presented, and it was not known to the Storting what it would contain. Ergo is neither the Right Party nor the Advance Party, at my discretion, tied up to a proposition that had not yet been made known to the Storting so that you knew what it would look like and what it would contain. So I think you should slow down a little bit. On our part, there will certainly be good reason to look carefully at whether we believe that this handling is a breach of the budgetary agreement or not, but we will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e571	In my post I accused neither the Right Party nor the Progress Party of breaching the agreement, but said that the explanation that the question was not raised in the negotiations just about a self-financing freight balancing system was that neither the Right Party nor the Progress Party took up that issue despite the notification of the scheme. It was stated in the documents that were the basis for the negotiations that we wanted to replace the old system with a new one. But I don't go that way anymore, because I have confidence that there can be a majority for a new system here in the Storting, regardless of what conclusions might be in, for example. The party of progress. So the representative Siv Jensen said that the agreement was at least concluded. That's right, but it was a framework agreement. And if the Storting had now thought that winding down the old freight balancing system was so unacceptable, it was possible within the framework of the agreement to redispatch so that we could continue a freight balancing system. That's what was my point, that you had the opportunity, but I admitted in response to the reply from the representative Nordtun that Stortinget probably had a short time. I don't think it serves any particular purpose to stay any longer by this. The most important thing now is that we hopefully get the old system reintroduced from 1 February. And I trust that we will be able to convince that the new system is better than the old one, among other things. because it gives full freight smoothing in contrast to the one we had until the end of the year, which we reintroduce on a temporary basis from 1 February.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e580	Let me say in all kindness that I don't think the Minister of Finance has a good day today. When he's standing on the Stockholm Chair as Minister of Finance and basically says it's the same thing who's promoting proposals for funding – whether there's government or parties on the Stortinget, it's just questions about who's coming first – then I have to say that you've actually given up government. In fact, I have rarely heard a representative of the government take the representative Carl I. Hagen looked at the word by saying that basically the Stortinget can manage well by proposing appropriations. I agree that a government can formally wait until its proposal has been returned after majority decisions in Stortinget – although there was little doubt about the position's fate. But it's a government council tomorrow, too, and it's next Friday, and it would go even faster than the treatment of a document no. Eight proposals. In fact, the government could have been ahead of it if it wanted to, but I understand that that's probably not the point. Then the Minister of Finance is at the top of it all and says that after agreement has been reached on the framework of a budget agreement, the framework can basically be broken down. It is not correct for the Minister of Finance to state in his last line that the framework did not contain an agreement on what to do. There was no discussion at any time about freight balancing in the negotiations, therefore it was not part of the agreement either. And so if the Minister of Finance assumes that, after a decision at the end of November on a binding framework, it will suddenly be necessary to redeploy the framework because the Government feels it is too good to promote a hitherto unknown proposition on December 5 – and I must say that the Minister of Finance does well have a record in sub-statement when he says that promoting December 5 might have given a relatively short duration of treatment – it must be said that no proposal, except for proposals on compulsory payroll, will be dealt with in such a short time, so the Government could not seriously mean that one should be treated as part of the budget. Otherwise, I ask for an answer to my question about the new freight balancing system in relation to the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e591	In order not to forget to answer the last question again: it is assumed that the scheme we have had is in line with the EEA Agreement, and my office assumes that the new scheme will therefore also be. So the representative Per-Kristian Foss says that I have expressed myself as if it were the same person who is making proposals. No, that's not so, but the government has to deal with the formal, and even if an adjustment exists, is not the destiny of a proposal, in this case Ot.prp. No 22s fate, decided before the voting is soon held here in Odelstinget. So first we know. Then the representative Per-Kristian Foss says it's a government council already tomorrow. But it is the case that tomorrow's matters dealt with by the Council of State have already been dealt with by the preliminary Council of State. So it's too late to make a proposal in the Council of State tomorrow, since the preliminary Council of State has already been held. Then there's a total misunderstanding of what I said, if the representative Per-Kristian Foss perceived it so that you can blow a frame or move between the frames. That's not what I said. I pointed out that one can redispatch within the individual frameworks. With regard to the Ministry of Labour and Administration's budget, therefore, if the proposal for a new system was found unacceptable and wanted to continue the old one, within the framework of – as the Stortinget had decided – money could be redispatched so that there was room for a freight balancing system, but then, of course, at the expense of other chapters within the same framework.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e602	With all due respect, this line has not been particularly elucidating from the position of the Minister of Finance. And today we've also heard something very exciting, it might be called the revolutionary parliamentaryism, because if I heard right, he said the following in his post: It doesn't matter what the Government thinks, it's the Storting that decides. And we've also seen in the budget that it really doesn't matter what the government is promoting because you're being dominated by the Storting. Leave it. I think this has become more and more unclear as the cord shift has progressed. If it was important for the centre parties to put in place a freight balancing system, why was it not included in the internal budgetary discussions before the budgetary procedure? It's interesting to note that on the one hand, you remove an order, and then on the other hand, muscles do not show up after all in the negotiations to get a system in place. Nor has a good explanation been given as to why the original State budget did not propose the new scheme at the same time as removing the old one. The logical thing would be that in the same proposition we said that we now have a proposal for a better system, we remove the old system and make a proposal to replace it, and promote it in an outright proposition in connection with the state budget. I cannot understand why this has not happened. Whether it's because of root or it has other reasons, at least we haven't got it explained by this string change. Another question that is interesting, and to which we have not been able to get an answer, is: if the government believes that, for a period until summer, what is now called the old scheme, which then has a price tag of tens of millions of dollars, how are we going to get it into a budgetary alliance with the Right and the Advance Party? Both parties have been up here today and said that they were not interested in contributing the state's money to that kind of agreement, but that they might be willing to look at other arrangements. And as far as I understand, the central government has concluded a binding budget agreement for the entire period, which means that the Right and the Advance Party are not only holding a hand on the steering wheel, but actually in the driver's seat, and it could be interesting to hear from the finance minister how nearly 50 million. kr which this is to cost shall be financed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e614	When I said in my post that it doesn't matter whether the government believes that a case is well enough investigated or not, if the Stortinge believes otherwise, it was because it is the Stortinge's word that is crucial. That's the way it is for any minority government. If it's not a minority government, it doesn't risk that the population has a different opinion. It's been like this for quite a long time that we've had minority governments that of course have to figure out that it's the Storing that decides. There was nothing more than what I said about that question. Then ask Djupedal: why didn't we just take this matter up in the negotiations? There were a number of proposals that were in the order of the Government and government parties, which were not included in the negotiations, and which have also not created any problems afterwards. This is because the arrangements of the Government and Government parties were the basis for the negotiations, and there were changes in the arrangements of the Government and Government parties that were the negotiating theme. And when it wasn't taken up by those we negotiated with, it wasn't natural that the government parties should take up one of the very many things that we would have liked to have done. Furthermore, Mr Djupedal believes that the budgetary agreement with the Right and the Advance Party gives the two parties the right to veto. That's not right. The agreement states that, to the extent that there is a need for changes in the financial framework, the parties to the agreement shall be consulted. But it's not that if the government feels a great need to make a change, in so far as it doesn't concern exactly the points that are specifically agreed upon, the Right Party and the Advance Party can oppose it. But we have committed ourselves to consulting, and as far as I know, there have already been such consultations here in Stortinget. And I don't want to be so pessimistic that I assume in advance that the Right Party and the Advance Party will oppose the new arrangement. We must at least wait until the matter is brought before Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e623	This finance minister has sometimes remarked that he feels it is regrettable that he saw those degrees misunderstood in different contexts. After hearing this exchange of lines, no one should be surprised that what he says might be misunderstood. Because what we're seeing here is that the government doesn't at all take responsibility for making it come true for what it's proposing, but tries to blame other parties, such as, for example, Per Kristian Foss and Siv Jensen have been inside. In the last answer here we hear again, that the Minister of Finance says that when this was not included in the negotiations, it was because it was assumed that it was in place, because it was the Government's draft budget that led to the negotiations. But then he said in reply to Tore Nordtun that the Stortinget could have made sure to resume this appropriation into the Administrative Ministry's budget. At that time the framework had already been adopted, so the Minister of Finance is talking to himself! He says on the one hand that in connection with the agreement with the Right and the Advance Party he was sure that the matter was in place, i.e. in connection with the adoption of the framework, but then some would have made sure in connection with the Administrative Ministry's budget that it was safe to reintroduce an allocation against which it was a majority against. This is absolutely not at fault. If so, who would that majority form when the Minister of Finance expressed his pride in the acceptance of the basis for the consensus by both the Right and the Advance Party? I understand that both the Right and the Advance Party representatives have difficulty accepting that interpretation. In addition, the Minister of Finance here says that the oil companies are now paying for his proposed revenue page in the freight balancing fund. Then I have to ask the Minister of Finance: is it not the case that consumers in those areas that are not subject to defrosting, who are going to have an increase in the price of petrol to finance the Minister of Finance's idea?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e635	Whether someone is misunderstood or not, it may be because of the messenger, that the statement is unclear, but it may also be because of the recipient, that one either does not understand or perhaps does not want to understand. So Dag Terje Andersen says that the government does not take responsibility. I have now tried to say it twice before, but I get to try a third time: there were a lot of things the government would have done, but as we did not find it necessary to address it as long as the negotiator did not take it up as a proposal for changes in the government's arrangement. The first point of the agreement is that the underlying arrangements of the Government and Government Parties are as specified below. We had e.g. strong ambitions in relation to the health effort. It was not necessary to address that question, and fortunately it has not caused any problems later, because there has been a consensus that more efforts should be made. Then Dag Terje Andersen comes back again to the fact that the frames had been adopted. Yes, the framework – the framework and the overall framework – had been adopted, but the distribution of the individual frameworks was not decided. What would the Scientific Committees in Stortinget do if they could not have the opportunity, within the agreed sub-framework, to make changes in relation to the Government's original arrangement? So the possibility was there if you had found it very necessary, to continue the old freight balancing system. Furthermore, according to the proposal, the oil companies are the ones to make the actual payment of the contribution to the self-financing freight balancing fund. But, of course, they don't have a sarepta truck to take off, so it's the consumers who finally have to pay, it's the taxpayers or the fuel consumers who have to pay, and that's what's in the balancing system itself. It is also the case today that freight costs are paid by some – in part by all of us at the contribution that has been granted over the state budget, they approximately. One hundred million. kr, and the rest of the users. Then it becomes a redistribution – how much is charged to the different users. It's true that it's going to be a little less to pay for those who live the farthest in the districts, and something more to pay for those who live centrally, but it's not a big and dramatic amount it's about – just a few cents per. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e646	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e649	The exposure here today makes it quite clear that many people have a very bad conscience that the petrol price in District Norway has reached new heights. But there is no one who, through his argument, has managed to discharge himself from responsibility. After hearing the representative Foss' first post, I have to say that there is no doubt that he based on the principle that attack is the best defence. Right-wing management is probably not the political grouping that is most involved in solidarity arrangements, as the government's freight balancing system must be said to be. I could imagine asking the representative Foss if he has got the unison demand from the Right Footmen in District Norway – not least from my county, Troms – about equal gas prices across the country. Or is it perhaps that the representative Foss defines his foot people in the party in the same way that he defined the Ministry of Finance: the intellectual part, which I assume is synonymous with the leadership of the party, and the non-intellectual – in the Ministry of Finance represented by Minister of Finance Restad?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e658	Let me start in the friendly corner and say that the Minister of Finance is quite right in saying that there is a mandatory consultation mechanism contained in the agreement, that we must first seek agreement with the Right and the Advance Party on any changes to the adopted State budget for 1999. If that's not possible, you can go somewhere else. But to leave the friendly corner: there must be something ripping wrong with the finance minister's understanding of point 1 of the agreement when he later pretends to be something other than admissibility figures. The reference to the underlying financial position of the government parties is solely to the numerical proposals for allocations in crowns and ears and, of course, not to what these parties wrote in the financial position in all other areas, at least not to mean anything near the conclusion of unknown proposals that the Government announced it might promote at later times. It has nothing to do with the agreement at all. - Now I have some problems, sir. President. I don't intend to talk half an hour, so I wonder if the clock could be corrected a little. It says I have 28 minutes left, while I have 3 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e665	There is no limited speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e668	Not limited! It was fine – I thought it was 3 minutes. Excellent, then I can take it a little more easy! Back to the understanding of the agreement, point 1, and the figures. I think it is right to say this from the pulpit, as I believe the Prime Minister has been guilty of the same misunderstanding. I can prove it, because it was also clear, as the Minister of Finance pointed out, that the various committees were free to negotiate with all parties on changes, as long as the figures explicitly mentioned in the text of the agreement and the annexes were in place. So as long as those numbers were in place, you could change other things. If it had been the policy of the government parties in all the areas under which it was based, as presented in the financial position, such freedom would obviously not have been possible for the individual committees. So this is all about accepting the amount of appropriations on the revenue and expenditure side of the financial position and the changes made explicitly in the agreement with the annexes, and nothing else. So the government must stop believing and publicly asserting that the Right Party and the Advance Party have given their support to any plans and future proposals because we did not explicitly include them in the negotiations. We didn't bring them up, because they weren't the topic of the negotiations. It was crowns and ears in connection with the framework that would guide the committees we negotiated. I think that's important to say. With regard to the reality of the matter, I must be allowed to say, as I have said in the preliminary consultations that have been, that the Group of the Progressive Party is now beginning to be tempted to draw up a Document No. 8 proposals to introduce some fund schemes and other equalisation schemes so that we get equal housing prices or equal land prices across the country. This represents far greater expenditure for most families than the petrol price, and there are, in fact, largely inverse conditions that apply. A single target in the Oslo area can reach 1 million. kr – only the robin. This is, of course, due to the political majority who have limited the areas on which they can build, even though there is more than enough space on the part of nature. In other parts of the country, one can get a rough spot for 10,000 – 40,000 kroner per year. Objective. So if you're going to start balancing, there are other areas that could be tempting to present Document No. Eight proposals on the subject. We're going to follow developments and consider whether we're going to build a construction just to illustrate the plan economy and the thinking that's in force in the Government in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e677	The next speaker is Per-Kristian Foss, and according to Section 36 of the Rules of Procedure, he has to limit himself to 10 minutes of speaking time in this post.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e680	The last idea, the balancing of land prices, i.e. that one should have equal land prices for cabins regardless of the infrastructure investments the municipalities had made on lifts and other installations, will give interesting signals to the municipalities. Then I think it would rise a storm of protests from familiar parts of District Norway, and I actually agree with them in that case. To the understanding of the budget agreement itself. It is a little necessary for me to present it now, like Mr Hagen, because the Minister of Finance has a poor understanding of the budgetary agreement, and that needs to be clarified. It is not the case that the Government’s arrangement is based on whether it is the numerical content or known or unknown thoughts put forward in e.g. the national budget or the state of play of the national budget. That's the numerical content that's agreed on. Known and unknown thoughts, alerted and unannounced suggestions are only agreed if they have been addressed. There are some suggestions of the kind that were taken up and for which there was a majority. The attitude of Telenor is one example, the attitude towards the privatisation of Arcus is another example, etc. The Minister of Finance also gives the instruction that 100 million could well be found in the Administrative Committee. kr more. It meant in the first row that there was agreement that you should do it, and then agreement on how to cover it. I don't know if the finance minister thought that within the committee there could be opportunities to cut the press support another 100 million. kr. There are many who have suggested it in their alternative budgets. But I don't think it was the most appropriate area to reach agreement on the five batches. Very familiar never came any such initiative from the government parties, and that was perhaps where the need would be greatest. Finally, Mr Nymo. I have not entered into any substantive debate on a state freight balancing arrangement. He thought attack was the best defense. You have to listen to a representative like Nymo, who has recently announced the resignation of the Government. It's a technique that Nymo's been using with a lot of intensity. I am aware that there is a great demand from all parts of District Norway, including from Right-wing politicians, for lower petrol prices. It would be interesting if the Central Party had in the past followed our proposal to reduce the tax on petrol, but I have not registered the representative Nymo's support for any such proposal at any time. The term ‘equal gas price throughout the country’ is an expression I have not seen used as a description of neither the old scheme nor the consequence of the new scheme or scheme and its consequences, kfr. intervention by the Minister of Finance in this debate. For the sake of order, I have not used the term the non-intellectual part of the Ministry of Finance with reference to political leadership. It's a thought that only Nymo has had.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e695	It is possible that it is a little silly to get involved at the end when you want to have an explanation of how these negotiations between the Progress Party and the Right and the Government Party have been conducted, and the understanding of it. I'm going to stay away from that. I asked for a line to the Minister of Finance, but it was not possible with more lines. It is possible that the Minister of Finance is right that we are listening to, nor do we always understand what is being said. I take it on – that’s not all I understand. Therefore, I listened to what Per-Kristian Foss had to say in his last post – I could not ask when the line change was over. What the Minister of Finance does when he says that one can redispatch within the framework of the Administrative Committee 100 million. kr, which was the same as last year's budget, is to disburse responsibility. If one were to pass on this arrangement to the present year, it would amount to 100 million. kr, as then the Workers' Party would find cut suggestions to cover in! When the center had multiple teams with the Right and the Advance Party for the frames, it was the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left who should take that initiative, when one saw that one did not have multiples for a new order. Here again I found the Minister of Finance trying to shift responsibility to others. Here one had to find a cut if it would be possible to pass on the old scheme to the present year. One knew that there was no way. Then one has to take responsibility for the government's refusal to continue with the old regime. It was in the budget, everyone knew it. If one wanted a new system that was better, one had to have proposals within the time frame for managing the budget in the Storting. The government did not. And then I want to repeat what we've said on the Labour Party's side, that we're in favour of a system of anti-smoothing, but we want to look at what kind of arrangement is being made. Now, when we don't have any arrangements, it actually turns out that petrol is going to be more expensive for those who live in the districts, and there's a lot of questions about whether the oil companies are going to happen, or whether it's not going to be the individual buyer of gasoline. We will see this in a concrete way before we decide on the content of a new anti-sampling scheme. It must be better than that presented today and sent back to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e709	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 194]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e717	The Odelsting will then vote in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e723	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is proposal No. 1, by Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Right, and Proposal No. 2, from Kristin Halvorsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate, as soon as possible, the inclusion of the municipal sector in the law on public procurement. ‘... Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up guidelines on environmental concerns for procurement. Such guidelines shall be included as a public procurement criterion. ‘... Both proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e882	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e889	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-21-lower.ana.ud242e895	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. No. of the proposal. 1, by Lars Gunnar Lie on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left, and proposal No. 2, from Tore Nordtun on behalf of the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose, as soon as possible, the reintroduction of the old freight balancing system until a new regime, if any, is in place. At the same time, the government is asked to indicate the collection of the increased costs of the scheme. ‘... This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. Proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party, and the Left:
