ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e27	The representative of Arne Lyngstad, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Nordland County, Hanne Dyveke Sweet Hagen, has taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: from the representative of Arne Lyngstad on maternity leave from 4 May to 31 May from the representative of Kristin Halvorsen on leave from 4 May to 10 May to take part, after an invitation, in a series of lectures in Japan on women in Norwegian policy from the representative Per Ove Width on welfare leave from 6 May to 12 May These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Oslo, Lisbeth Rughvedt, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the term of office of the representative Kristin Halvorsen from 4 May to 10 May, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Oslo: Heikki HolmåsFor Nord-Trøndelag County: Astri WesselFor Vestfold County: Jan Th. Langard3. Jan Th. Langaard is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e96	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e101	I suggest Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e106	Asmund Kristoffersen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Asmund Kristoffersen is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. The representative of Øyvind Korsberg will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e111	On behalf of the representatives Siv Jensen, Øyvind Waksdal and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the partial privatisation and listing of Statoil.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e116	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e137	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne BondevikState Council Selected City of Reply Haugland Council Laila Davay The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the notified persons, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked to be raised. - Thank you. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Thorbjørn Jagland.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e156	I have a question for the Prime Minister. The NATO Summit strongly supported the need for Europe to develop its own defence and security policy identity and for the EU to be the driving force in this. It is expected that the European Union Summit in Cologne in June will take a long step forward in this direction. This will mean that many issues relating to NATO will in reality be settled in the EU, where Norway is not involved. Norway is thus at risk of becoming a second-class member of NATO if we do not ensure full participation in EU decisions relating to NATO. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: What is the strategy of the Government ahead of the EU Summit in June?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e165	Let me first say that, in my view, the NATO summit in Washington was a success. It confirmed the firmness and consensus of the alliance with regard to the Kosovo situation, and there was no change in the strategy in this respect – on the contrary. Furthermore, a strategic concept and a summit statement and a few other opinions were adopted. It is true, as Thorbjørn Jagland says, that in these it is also reflected in the development of the European security and defence policy identity. As you know, Norway is currently a member of the Western Union. I think we have to predict the probability that the Western Union will gradually be integrated into the European Union. It is then important that Norway can maintain similar rights in relation to this new entity within the EU, as we have today in relation to the Western Union. The Government has worked actively for this, both before and during the summit. There have been formulations in the strategic concept and the summit statement that give us a platform to achieve this. There is no concealment that there are very different countries in the same situation in principle — Turkey, Iceland, Norway and the three new NATO countries, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Poland. It makes it a little complicated to get very precise formulations as strong as we would like to, but we have been given formulations that indicate that we should have arrangements for possible EU-led operations calling for NATO forces, similar to what we have today in relation to the Western Union. In addition, such operations calling on NATO forces will have to be decided by NATO, so that the EU cannot do so on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e172	The word ‘consultation arrangements’ has been used in communication, and it has also been used here in the hall earlier. Today, however, we are, in reality, full-fledged members of the Western Union, who are intended to be used for such purposes and who are expected to be part of the EU. I would say, on behalf of the Labour Party, that anything other than full participation in decisions relating to NATO is not acceptable. We can't risk getting into the situation that we're going to be a second-rate member of NATO. Therefore, Norway needs to do everything in its power to promote its interests and not allow others to define what is important for Norway in this case. I have to ask if it is the Government's view that full participation should be given to issues relating to NATO, and what strategy is there to achieve it in front of the Cologne Summit.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e179	Yes, I can confirm that we have as our goal, in the same way that the Workers' Party does. We worked actively, as I said, before and during the summit to ensure this as far as possible, also in the documents adopted there. But what also shows – because there are two references to this in the Washington documents – is that the design of these schemes should be further worked on, and we should also address this to the Cologne Summit. Norway will, of course, use all its resources — political and diplomatic — in relation to the EU and other key actors in this context in order to safeguard its interests, with a view to the full participation that we have in the Western Union today for all practical purposes. We fully share this view, but it is a complicating element that there are some – to say – different positions in relation to the EU that are basically in the same situation here. But of course we're going to work for our interests, which on some points may be different than for some of the other NATO countries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e184	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e187	I must admit that I am concerned when I hear the wording used by the Prime Minister. It is probably pretty clear that Norway did not get the formulations we would have been best served with in this summit paper. That is why the Prime Minister uses the term ‘platform’. I would like to stress the same thing as Thorbjørn Jagland, I think it is essential and necessary for Norway that we have at least as good rights as those we now have, namely full participation in those areas that are important. But my question to the Prime Minister is this: Does he feel that we are now in some sort of insoluble problem – that there is indeed an imminent risk that Norway could be marginalised on this very important issue because we have put ourselves on the sideline like this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e194	Let me again state that we fully agree on what we want to achieve here, and the government has spent a lot of work and effort to get the declaration to the best possible effect on this point. But, as I said, it is a complication for us that this was a declaration that was to be adopted unanimously, also with other non-EU countries that are NATO members, inside the picture, such as the United States. Turkey and the three new NATO countries, which are not EU members. It says itself, among other things. Turkey has been rejected for its application for EU membership, which is somewhat complicated. But we're working as hard as we can to get rights similar to those we have today. There should be no doubt about that. As to whether there is a risk of marginalisation, it is at least the Government's position that we should counteract and combat that danger as much as possible. I think we should succeed in this, for example: because we are going to be involved in all the unanimous decisions in NATO that have to do with these issues, and because I believe that the EU does not see it as a problem to give Norway strong rights in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e202	It will be a follow-up question to – Erik Solheim.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e205	On the other hand, NATO's strategic concept is the relationship between NATO and the UN, which was also a key element of the Norwegian negotiating framework. It is well known that the United States wanted all references to the UN to be taken out of the text, while Norway, as I understand it, worked for a strong UN anchoring of NATO's new strategy. First, I would like to ask the Prime Minister to confirm that Norway is working for this in Washington, and then, more importantly, to ask the Prime Minister to confirm that, when future crisis situations are encountered, Norway will set out that NATO's actions outside the traditional NATO area are to be anchored in the UN Security Council's decisions. What is happening in Kosovo has been justified on the basis of an emergency legal basis in an extreme situation and must not be allowed to become general in the way that NATO operates. What lies in the concept is that this will be assessed on a case-by-case and case-by-case basis, but that Norway’s policy in this area in the years to come will be a strong anchor in the UN Security Council for the operations that NATO has had to take place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e212	I can confirm that the Government is working actively to get the strongest possible reference to the UN Charter, and two such references have been included in the strategic concept, in Articles 10 and 11 respectively. This can also be accessed and read by representatives of the Stortinget. It was important to us. I can also confirm Solheim's understanding of the desirability of anchoring this in specific decisions of the Security Council. I agree that Kosovo in this way is an exception that can be justified by a – call it like – emergency situation, but that does not have to be the rule. That must be the exception. The rule should be that operations outside NATO's own territory should be anchored as far as possible in Security Council decisions and should comply with the Charter of the United Nations and international law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e219	Haakon Blankenburg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e222	I believe that the Government intends to make the best of the situation, whatever it may be, after the Cologne Summit, possibly in Helsinki. However, a more central question arises about the Government’s view of how European cooperation can best be addressed. Does the Government have any view of the great decision to be taken, whether to take over the EU's defence and security cooperation in Europe or whether to lie in the Western Union? This is where the case begins – not when the decision in the EU is taken, but before the decision in the EU is taken. And then there's an interesting question about the Government having some view of how this cooperation is going to go in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e232	: From the viewpoint of the Government – and I have also seen that it has a broad coverage in the Grand Duchy – on the importance of maintaining the strongest possible transatlantic links, it is the Government’s position that these issues should be addressed primarily within the Western European Union, where we currently have associated membership, and which gives us full access to the discussions, without the formal voting rights. We present that in meetings and bilaterally. If the EU decides to integrate the Western Union into the EU, it is a decision that Norway can do little from time to time, even if we do not see it as a desirable development. If this is progressing, and I think we have to assume that the probability is high, we are actively working to get equivalent rights to the unit that is then being developed within the European Union, which we have today in the Western Union.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e237	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e240	My question is also addressed to the Prime Minister. The size has been concerned on several occasions with providing accurate information on why it has taken so long for Norway to connect to the EU drug centre. The Prime Minister said the following in Stortinget on 10 March.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘It was not until December 1998 that there was sufficient grounds for reopening the case before the Commission, based on an EEA solution for both Norway and Iceland.’ This goes into a presentation where the Prime Minister has said that the reason it has taken a long time is that it took a long time for Iceland to clarify this. In the Official Journal of Bergen on 26 April 1999 there is another production. Reference is made to a note from our delegation in Brussels, which arrived at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on 25 February last year, where information was available that it was not relevant to an EEA link and that Iceland’s response was no. So we're facing two presentations here. Can the Prime Minister confirm or deny that the reason for the different presentations is that he himself did not have knowledge of this note, or is it at other levels?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e254	This article in Bergen's Official Journal does not, in my opinion, bring anything particularly new in relation to the presentations I have given of this question earlier. This one telegram from our delegation in Brussels is just a piece of the whole thing in this case. As you know – as the representative Foss will know – there are a number of telegrams between our delegations and embassies and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What's the truth about Iceland's attitude is that it was unclear for a long time, and we also got a little bit different signals from Reykjavik about how Iceland would behave. It's true that at one point, as this telegram writes, the signals from Reykjavik were negative. However, because the EU used Norway’s participation in the drug centre as a non-interest in other EFTA countries, Norway actively worked to make Iceland interested in participating on an EEA basis in this drug centre. Then came the positive signals from Iceland afterwards. At the end of 1998, there were particularly positive signals, and a decision was taken in Reykjavik, as far as I remember, in the new year 1999. Taking out one telegram from a particular phase of this process gives a small coverage of the entire process. The truth is that we finally agreed to go in for cooperation with the drug centre along the EEA track, and a telegram from a long earlier point of view does not, of course, force it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e263	The term telegram is unknown to me, both as a technical form and as a description of the document. It was a document from our delegation in Brussels, based on discussions with the Commission, which shows that the Commission was not interested in an EEA connection at that time. I have referred to Iceland's vision in the past. This is different from what the Prime Minister gave to the Storting in order to clarify misunderstandings created in a spontaneous Question Time. What is the reason why this part of the course of events, which would make it possible to clarify Iceland's position and the EEA relationship in the past, was not involved in the Prime Minister's presentation at that time?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e275	I have never in Stortinget far hidden the fact that the EU was not interested in the solution being found along the EEA track. However, I do not believe that Norway should simply be flattened for what the EU believes in questions where we have different interests. Norway has actively worked for links with the drug centre on the basis of the EEA track, and to do so we had to get Iceland involved. It is quite right that Iceland was negative at certain stages, and it is evident from this report from our delegation, but the truth is that Iceland gradually found that they would be on the basis of the EEA track. In this way, we could eventually work together towards the EU along that track. However, the EU maintained its resistance even after Iceland joined, so we have had to give up that track and now negotiate on a different basis. That there have been different attitudes between Norway and the EU, I have never concealed, and that it also took time before we agreed to go along the EEA track in this case, I have never concealed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e283	Grete Knudsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e286	I feel that there is a need for a clean-up here, because isn't it that the EU also made it clear that this didn't have to be an EFTA case? Nor was it dependent on cooperation and agreement on the EFTA side, for the EU actually emphasised that this could also be based on the so-called third pillar.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e291	It is true that the EU considered that this could be done on a different basis from the EEA track, i.e. as an EFTA case. But Norway has sincerely believed that we were best served that this happened in a so-called EEA track, and it has to do with economics, and it has to do with rights. But now we have to give up that track because the EU has maintained its resistance even after Iceland joined, and then we have to negotiate on a different basis. In fact, we believe that our agreement could have been better seen with Norwegian eyes if it had been on an EFTA basis, i.e. along the EEA track.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e296	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e299	I also have a question for the Prime Minister. It's a refugee policy. The government has planned to use 1,200 million. EUR 6 000 for refugees to Norway, while the Government will use, up to now at least 225 million. to help close to one million refugees in Macedonia, Montenegro, Albania and Romania. How does it amount to a small number of refugees to Norway and a small amount down there with the government's assurances that it is important to bet primarily on aid in the neighbourhoods? With these 6,000 to Norway as well as the influx from Iraq and Somalia that is taking place, there is now about 15 000 to the reception apparatus in Norway, and I would ask the Prime Minister: where, in the government's view, the limit of what Norway's reception apparatus can be able to receive from refugees per year. years in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e306	First the Kosovo refugees. We agree that the main gravity of aid must be in the neighbourhoods, mainly because it is not desirable for refugees to travel longer distances than is necessary, even in view of their return. Of course, it's also economically more advantageous to do it that way. But I have to remind you once again that when Norway said it was prepared to accept up to 6,000 Kosovo refugees, it was based on a desperate situation that arose in Macedonia. They actually closed the border with Kosovo, and they said, "If we don't now get help to take the refugees further out of Macedonia, this will be totally unsustainable for us in Macedonia." I also received a letter from my Macedonian colleague about that. In this situation, Norway entered and said: We are ready to take up to 6,000. Other countries provided corresponding messages. It helped to resolve an unsustainable situation, and Macedonia reopened its border. And what we also see in these days is that it is also necessary for other countries in Europe to accept refugees, and the United States has said that they are willing to take up to 20,000. It's necessary for us to remedy the situation in Macedonia, and then it's going to be worth 1.2 billion kroner. When it burns in the heart of Europe, in my opinion, we can afford it. Therefore, the amounts are not comparable, for everyone knows that it is far more expensive to take refugees to Norway. But in our view, we had to do it for humanitarian reasons, and then we can't turn the crown here. We believe that the reception apparatus in Norway is good enough and large enough to receive these 6,000 in addition to the other refugees who also come from other parts of the world, as Carl I. Hagen pointed out. So the number we'll get in 1999, the 6,000 from Kosovo plus the others from other parts of the world, represents at my discretion the capacity we can handle.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e317	Then I interpret the Prime Minister so that he puts some kind of thank you for what we can accept, at 15,000 per. years. So my second question is, when we're going to raise $15 million. Have a refugee camp been established in Romania for 5,000 refugees, why could not Norway give more money to Romania so that we could move the refugees from Macedonia? I fully agree that they must be moved, but not to Norway – to Romania. There, for a fraction of the money, we could maybe help 50,000 – 100,000 refugees. It would have been a better strategy. And so: Is the Prime Minister anxious about the long-term impact in Norway regarding the police department chief Ola Bakken in Oslo yesterday said to Evening Post Evening: « – Now we see a cultural collision on properly. Among our new countrymen there is a part that comes from a culture where people cannot agree peacefully. They will never be finished with a case, it is eye for eye and tooth for tooth." And in the preamble, it says, ‘The police believe it is only by chance that the ongoing series of violent episodes in the Oslo Schools has not ended in a killing.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e334	Norway is working both in relation to Romania and other countries in the region to assist them in their efforts to receive refugees from Macedonia and Albania, which are, of course, the two countries that have received the most ‘dreamed’ in this respect. But here it is that one has to be done and the other is not neglected – here it is not a question of either. We need to help both refugees in Kosovo as far as possible – and there we now have some opportunities to come in with assistance via Greece – and we need to be able to help countries like Romania. But we must also be willing to share the burden in Europe, so that it is not just the neighbourhoods of Kosovo that are to accept the entire flow of refugees. There is a danger of economic and political destabilization in the area, and we must be willing to do so by accepting someone in Norway. I don't think the number is that scary. And I think that in the situation we are now in, with the crisis in Kosovo, one should not focus on the contradictions that may arise. Rather, we have to deal with them by means of a successful integration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e339	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Hedstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e342	Based on the estimates of the Central Statistical Office, we have had a net migration of non-Western immigrants to Norway with an average of more than 5,000 per year. in the last ten years, and by 1990 as a base year, we will have at least one million distant cultural, or descendants of them, in Norway in 90 years. With the liberalisation trends we now see the contours, that figure is likely to be much higher. The majority dealt with the Communication of Integration two years ago, and the current government admitted that it had very limited knowledge of the long-term consequences and effects of today's asylum and refugee policy. Doesn't the Prime Minister think it should be right and sensible to get investigations into this on the table before opening up the Norway history's largest reception of refugees and asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e349	I do not know what kind of investigation the representative Hedstrøm is thinking about. If, for example: is an immigration account, we reject it. It can be seen as a stigmatisation of people with a different cultural and ethnic background, to which the Government does not want to contribute. I also have to say that I am quite upset that in a situation where we have a huge refugee disaster in the heart of Europe, the type of issue that the representative Hedstrom addresses is. I think we should now be much more concerned with what we can do to help refugees, primarily in the neighbourhoods, but we also need to be willing to relieve the proximity. And this is even in the heart of Europe. But I understand that these refugees too, the representative Hedstrøm, will oppose our acceptance in Norway. Here we just see that there is a deep disagreement on these issues, and I do not want to address the kind of issues that the representative Hedstrom is raising here, in relation to the crisis in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e359	It will be a final follow-up question – Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e362	I am pleased that the temperature of the Prime Minister is rising somewhat, but I should like to wish a Prime Minister who is melting really back against the unworthy driving that the Advance Party is now using in this matter. [[The President clubs.]] Those who criticize the Government at this point are speaking against better knowledge. For everyone knows that it is closely related to the fact that if most of the refugees are to be accepted in the neighbourhoods, other countries must also take part. It's soon full in Macedonia again. The crisis is there again. And that's just for the government to stand up and turn back on. Here, future, desirable budgetary settlements cannot dampen the government's indignation and ability to reverse.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e375	I can assure the representative Kristin Halvorsen that I do not. We share our views on this, and I openly admit that Kristin Halvorsen is better at letting his commitment be expressed than the Prime Minister is. But I can assure her that the commitment is the same with me and with the Government. Now I'm not going to comment on anyone other than the one standing on the opposite platform – but that they're like, for example. goes in order for it to be a multi-ethnic Kosovo and that we should also have multi-ethnic societies elsewhere in the world, and we have a number of places, to oppose that we accept 6,000 Kosovar Albanians in Norway, I don't understand that. So we're going to let other communities be multiethnic, but in Norway we don't dare to accept 6,000 Kosovar Albanians for fear of what this might lead to. I hope the commitment was clear enough for Kristin Halvorsen to realize that we share this view, and I am pleased with the broad support we have in the Stortinge to deal with the Kosovo crisis in general, including the humanitarian side of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e384	The President will stress that she has not intended to be so very liberal in polishing against others, but she knows, and also the representatives know, that they can get their message in the other way if they want it, so she thinks it's going to work out in the future as well. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e389	It should be a pleasure to change the theme – to a different theme than the one chosen by the Progress Party. I have a question for the Prime Minister. Hydro's Visund extension shows an exceedance that is actually much greater than Statoil's exceedances on the Åsgard extension. This according to the Evening Post. As far as we understand, this has no impact on the company's further operations. State Council Sponheim, who is the representative of the largest owner, refuses to comment on this. I allow myself to put this in perspective, with all the activity being shown, among other things. from the budgetary partner of the Prime Minister, Right, on the partial privatisation of Statoil. I would like to ask: how does the Prime Minister think that we are going to get an approach to an unsunned privatisation debate on Statoil, which is going to manage our national wealth, as a consequence of exceedances that are large and unpleasant, but which necessarily need not mean that we are going to completely change the nature of the company's business?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e398	I agree that we have examples of huge exceedances also in the case of the development of non-precious oil companies, and I think it is right that the privatisation of Statoil is not something strange for you to avoid any later exceedances. Now there has been a debate on the partial privatisation of Statoil. It was raised by Statoil's Managing Director. It has been arranged for the Statoil Governing Board itself to make an assessment of these issues. The government’s basic position is that the core tasks of Statoil should be under state ownership, but there may be other aspects of Statoil’s activities – adjacent functions – that it may be very reasonable to fully or partially privatise. But when Statoil's director, and probably also the board, makes a serious contribution to this debate, the government and the state that owns to take such recordings seriously. We will, and we will therefore come back to that in the oil report that the Government has announced will come next year. I think such questions are so big that it is important to get a broad political anchor among the parties on the Stortinget for possible price adjustments and price changes here, and therefore it is really too big a question to take as part of budgetary negotiations and any budgetary settlement. The government's view is that a better platform to discuss these issues is in connection with the oil notification, and we want to make contact with the parties at Stortinget with a view to finding solutions that can have a broad political anchoring. This is such a serious question that it should not be replaced by changing governments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e407	I am very pleased that the Prime Minister here confirms that Statoil's core business should be under full national control in such a way that we can safeguard our common interests in this. It is not new that Statoil organises itself in such a way that enterprises outside the core business are partially privatised, and I don't think anyone has anything against it. However, we are afraid that we will be in the same situation as we have done in previous budgetary conciliation, that in a late night hour there will be an amount set in order to achieve a budgetary balance, and then directives will be given to the Government to sell state enterprises. I feel reassured when the Prime Minister here in Stortinget confirms that this will not happen again. We hope, then, that we can have a strategy both in terms of the debate on the budgets, and also in relation to the oil notification, which takes care of the interests of the nation, not the interests of individual shareholders.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e414	Statoil is in a special position in Norwegian business, both because they have a direct involvement on Norwegian base, but also abroad, and also as manager of SEDØE. Just when it comes to how to organise the management of HOUSE in the future, I think there is also a question that should be considered. We are also prepared to facilitate a discussion of the oil spill that is coming. In the case of other proposals for full or partial privatisation that this government has been behind, we have a good conscience for them, they are quite different from the one for Statoil. What we have been involved in, including with the budgetary partners, I think have been good and sensible proposals. If Kosmo here thought, among other things, on Telenor, this was very wise in connection with the merger plans with Telia that are now being realized.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e421	There will be follow-up questions – Per-Cristian Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e424	My question goes from the Prime Minister's point of view that important questions cannot be resolved in the context of the budget. It must be a political innovation. I have been reviewing the national budgets for the past ten years and looking at the scope of structural policy measures taken by different governments. It has been far more extensive – and far-reaching for that matter – than Statoil and any clarification of the principle of privatisation or none. This government has also addressed quite extensive issues in its national budget, but I must stress that it was perhaps more extensive under previous governments. This gives the Government the opportunity through the national budget to prepare a basis for discussion. The impression is that everything to be recorded in late night hours, as it is called, should be unprepared for the Storting – it is up to the Government to prepare this for the Storting. So my question is really whether it is that there is a completely decisive difference between a big message and a national budget. Very familiar have the same status, and historically they have raised equally important questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e433	If it were not to be a completely decisive difference, there would be no big problem for the Right either if this comes in the oil message, which will not be that long. We still believe that this is the most natural context, because here we are going to discuss the guidelines for future petroleum activities, Statoil, BEES and the guidelines and framework conditions for other oil and gas activities. This, in my view, is more natural at home than in a national budget, also because one with the new budgetary procedures we have had in Stortinget must, as it is now, also with a minority government, force a majority vote in the budget. In the case of Statoil – and I think there are hardly any more extensive structural change cases comparable to Statoil – we want a broader anchoring than a possibly scarce majority for a budgetary settlement. It also argues that this should be taken into account in the oil notification, not in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e441	Last follow-up question – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e444	In the debate on Statoil, some people want to think that what is good for Statoil is necessarily good for Norway. So that's not what was said by a former American president: "What's good for General Motors, is good for the United States." This is not necessarily the case with Statoil. I very much appreciate the Prime Minister's explicit determination that this should not be part of a budgetary settlement, that there should be no change in Statoil's ownership structure relating to a budgetary settlement with Per-Kristian Foss in a late night. I also hope that his dealers will remember about a month, when we sit here in Stortinget and actually negotiate the final revised national budget. But let me ask you a few questions, because the Prime Minister was a little unclear. He says that what matters to the Prime Minister and the Government is that Statoil's core business is under state control. Then it might be interesting to know: What does the Prime Minister think is Statoil's core business, and how does he manage to define it? Are the service stations at its core, or is it just the oil pumping? What is the Prime Minister really adding to the concept of core activity, and how does he relate to that delimitation? And so, if that's possible, how does he imagine the ownership structure of the core company?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e453	With the core business, I see first and foremost what is involved in the direct production of oil and gas. Related tasks may include transport systems, service stations, shops, where Statoil has already attracted private stakeholders, and there are also some other examples of ancillary functions not directly related to oil and gas production. A complete fixation of positions at the present time is probably not wise from anyone's side, because if we are to facilitate a discussion in connection with the oil notification, and also get an assessment of Statoil's government, I think we have to wait until we lock the positions completely. But the government's basic position has been that the core tasks, i.e. oil and gas production, should be under state control. In addition, we need to discuss the management of HOUSE, which in values far exceeds that of Statoil itself directly manages.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e460	Let's move on to the next main question
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e463	One of the reasons why NATO went to war with the former Yugoslavia was to prevent a long-standing guerrilla war in Kosovo from spreading to a number of countries in the Balkans. It is clear that there will then be a cross of thought that NATO's bombing of targets in Montenegro can be a contributing factor in triggering a civil war in Montenegro, where the local regime controls the police and the federal regime controls the army. My first question to the Prime Minister is whether he will confirm that Norway will do what Norway can in NATO to argue that as far as it can be done, it will refrain from bombing Montenegro. There are very obvious political reasons why not, even if there were military reasons to do so. And perhaps more importantly, now that an oil block of the former Yugoslavia has been introduced, to which Norway joined this weekend: what will be done to prevent this oil block from hitting Montenegro, which is actually an innocent third party in this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e472	I agree that the situation in Montenegro is difficult, and there is political rivalry between different groups on the position of President Milosevic. And I agree with the representative of Solheim that one must also assess NATO's military actions, that is, the bombings, in that light. I'm going to promise that we'll focus on this in the signals we give to NATO on these questions. The same is true in relation to an oil embargo. Norway believes it is right, as the other NATO countries do, that we introduce an oil embargo, because it can be an effective means of exerting pressure on the regime. For example, it will. be rather paradoxical if oil stocks are bombed in Yugoslavia and then the oil is allowed to flow freely, when we also know the significance of the oil to the military apparatus of President Milosevic. Once again, the concern for Montenegro comes in, there was a strong impetus during the debate in NATO during the summit, and there will be an attempt to take account of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e479	I would like to follow up a little bit on the oil embargo, the introduction of an oil embargo and the attacking of targets in the former Yugoslavia are not, on a substantial point, parallel, namely that by an oil embargo you run a risk of involving a third party, i.e. countries not involved in this conflict. A very dangerous thing is to threaten something that is difficult or almost impossible to implement. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister what NATO's thoughts are about how, in practice, an oil block can be implemented against the former Yugoslavia without the great danger that countries not party to this conflict can be drawn in by their ships running oil to former Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e486	This was to some extent up to discussion in Washington last weekend. As regards the issue of so-called ‘visit and search’ regimes, i.e. the possibility of inspecting ships that are suspected of bringing oil into the area, no definitive decision has been taken on this. NATO has been given the task of carrying out a detailed study of, on the one hand, the concerns expressed by the representative, Mr Solheim, and, on the other, of course, because we can also imagine that this could escalate the conflict even in relation to third countries, such as the United States. Russia, which would be extremely regrettable. As far as the ‘visit and search’ regimes are concerned, it has not been concluded, except that a study should be conducted. In the case of the oil embargo on the rest, i.e. the export of oil to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, there is agreement in NATO to introduce it, and we will organise this legally in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e493	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e496	I have a question for the Minister of Labour and Administration. It is gratifying that the Government will now allow private placement and renting of labour, as the Right has fought for years. However, it is worrying that it should not apply to the health care system, which is the biggest deficiency. In the absence of vital staff for treatment and care, several of our hospitals are at risk of having to close departments. At the same time, there are 10,000 nurses in reserve. Therefore, it is incredible that the government will not exploit private employment services and rent to provide enough people, as Denmark and Sweden do with good results. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State what is the main reason for going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e503	It is true that the government has suggested that in the proposition that comes, we will seek a regulation to limit the rental of groups in the health and social sector. Which groups this should include, we will come back to in any regulation, which will be sent out to the hearing, with reasons. The main reasons are both economic and professional in nature. To date, it has been assessed that the health sector and parts of the social sector will not be suitable for a rental market. Economic conditions apply, inter alia, to: the experience gained in hiring temporary workers, especially in the health sector, where they have had to pay — in some cases — up to twice the amount of a normal salary. And it's not a paycheck for those who work as temporary workers, it's a paycheck for the temporary employment agencies. So there are two aspects: economic, but also professional. Of course, we will come back to these reasons in a regulation, which is to be consulted before it is finally adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e513	I thank you for the answer, but it was not very convincing. I have the impression that the principle of yes to fixed-term employment and no to short-term employment smells more of trade union struggle than the willingness to find practical solutions to a serious problem. There are plenty of opportunities for both full and permanent employment if people want it. I myself have worked in the health sector for 25 years and have also been a trade union leader, and I know that very many people want flexible employment and employment during periods of life. And the employer needs temporary staff on sick leave, on leave and for extra assistance when the amount of work is large. Thus, the government will allow private employment services and the provision of labour to all other sectors, but not to the sector where the need is greatest and where life and health are concerned. How long should this discrimination continue?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e524	Now, the government doesn't run a trade union fight, for sure. With regard to the technical grounds and also the economics, I would just like to point out that we are coming back to these, where, of course, both the Minister of Health and the Minister of Social Affairs will be very committed to these regulations. I want to mention as an example a hospital that in 1997 had 50 different nurses inside a staff with 28 permanent staff. There is widespread temporary work today, and we need to look at the consequences both for the working environment and the complex problems to be solved. It has also been shown that much of the working time has agreed to train new temporary workers. So here's a bunch of reasons. I hope that the representative Sjöli will come back and discuss this when the regulations come to the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e533	Lars Arne Ryssdal – for follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e536	I think the Council of State completely shares the starting point, that we need to mobilise more health professionals. We know from other sectors that rentals have proved to be a loving introduction to the labour market either for new ones outside, or for those who have been out for a while. Then it becomes a bit funny that it should be necessary to signal such a regulation already now. Whoever such a rental threatens, it could be possible to get an answer. It is not today's workers, they have opposed the use of new colleagues to share the workload with. Nor can it be the employers. The institutions that do not want such an opening can simply not use it. I don't see the point of determining it in a regulation. If we want to put patients first, the government should simply use this opportunity to get more health professionals into the institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e543	I notice that there is a part that disagrees with this. Who's threatening it? Well, if the economy is a threat, that's one answer. It might not be necessary if we have a lot of money to spend on health. But what I think is incredibly important is that we also investigate this carefully with regard to competence, as different occupational groups in the health sector are strongly involved in the individual patient. They face each other with life and death. There's something here that doesn't necessarily allow you to include random subs to solve some problems. All of these questions we want to get back into any regulation, where the reasons, as I said, will be carefully addressed. And then you'd better come back to the hearing whether or not this can be done. This applies to groups of health professionals, and it has not yet been decided – I specify it – which groups this should include.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e552	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e555	I want the Minister of the Family also to be allowed to stretch my legs, so I have a question for the Minister. We have become well aware of the situation in the private kindergartens gradually. And now we see that municipalities interpret differently this 40:30:30 rule and give signals that it is not common to give municipal support to private kindergartens. Many municipalities are now working on emergency plans to take over the private kindergartens that may be bankrupt. My question to the Minister for Family Affairs is: Is it a desirable development that municipalities and the public now take over all forms of kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e564	I thank the asker for allowing me to stretch my legs. The question is very relevant, and it is one of the issues that we come back to in the revised national budget, but to a greater extent in the kindergarten message coming to the autumn. There we have from the government's side that one of these fields that we're particularly concerned with is the condition of the private kindergartens. We know that there is a very big difference between the municipality and the municipality if you give municipal social benefits or not. I've also seen some signals that there are municipalities that want to take over these private kindergartens, and I don't see that as a positive solution. I think it is positive that we have a variety of childcare facilities in relation to ideology, pedagogics and ownership. But I think we need better guidance than we have today, in relation to the benefit. The government social benefits go to everyone, while the municipal social benefits are very different from the private kindergartens. We will discuss this carefully in the kindergarten message, and I hope that the Stortinget can agree on a way to deal with this issue, so that we will also have a variety of childcare facilities with both municipal and private actors in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e575	I thank you for the answer, which was quite a positive one. As you know, the Progress Party and the Right signed an agreement with the government parties that we should make an equality between private and public kindergartens. In addition, the Progress Party proposed 240 million. kr for the current year to the private kindergartens as a transitional arrangement to counteract the signals and results we see around the municipalities gradually. It does not seem to the Minister for Family Affairs that it is perhaps time that we give some strong signals to the municipalities about the desired development in the kindergarten sector that is in the agreement, rather than being passive and looking at the developments that are taking place in the municipalities, that the private kindergartens go bankrupt while the municipal mountains are being built.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e584	What I think is important is that we have to work quite thoroughly on this issue. If one goes through the scheme that the state should take over the financing of private kindergartens and that the municipalities should not have any responsibility for them, this will lead to municipalities stopping kindergarten development and leaving everything to the state. So we can't do it the way the Progress Party signaled in the budget. We are forced to look at the legislation that leads both the municipalities and the state to have a responsibility for the private kindergartens, not just the state. I would like to add that if the municipalities also have a financial responsibility for the private kindergartens, it must be accompanied by a number of obligations for those who run kindergartens, which the municipalities can also participate in and influence. The agreement between the Progress Party, the Right and the Government also meant that one should be treated equally when one had similar obligations, and here we have a dialogue with the municipalities to get it done in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e591	Sylvia Brustad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e595	I think the debate between the budgetary colleagues Progress Party and the Christian People's Party is also interesting in relation to kindergartens. Governments are very much talking about the importance of diversity in the kindergarten sector, and at least the Labour Party does not disagree. But isn't the main problem that the government, with the support of the Right Party and the Advance Party, has faced such a situation that we now have the lowest expansion of kindergartens of over 20 years? In 1997, we built over 13,500 kindergartens, and this year the measure for the same batches is approx. Two hundred. It's lower than the number of kids in line just in Oslo. Is this not the main explanation that the Government and the parties mentioned have given priority to spending a lot of money on cash support, which has gone beyond kindergartens? We're in the middle of a destiny when it comes to babysitting, both when we're talking about public and private kindergartens. We need both parts, and isn't the Council of State worried that we now have a kindergarten expansion that has actually stopped so saying it all the way out?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e602	I agree that last year we didn't get built as many kindergartens as I had wanted, as it looks like the signals we've received in relation to the kindergarten development. When it comes to the issue of childcare according to the facts, it is not only cash support that can be a problem, but also the economic reasons that some kindergartens say. It's the 6-year-old reform, because some of the cheapest kids disappeared into school, so they have to fill up with more expensive kids under the age of 3. Of course, we will also look at this in the kindergarten message. But I also understand that a number of municipalities that are now starting to get full coverage, «are on the weather», to see what the impact of the cash support is in relation to a further expansion. We get a lot of signals from some municipalities that have coverage – other municipalities have both an over-coverage and a under-coverage in relation to the age bracket, while others have children on a waiting list. When it comes to numbers from Oslo, it might be possible to discuss whether it's real that so many are on the waiting list. They are on the waiting list for space in the municipal kindergartens, but there are also some private kindergartens in Oslo – a lot of them – and some of those who have room there are still on the waiting list in the municipal kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e613	Then we go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e616	I have a question for the Prime Minister. The size has provided clear leadership and premise for the creation of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu, and the latest in the form of decisions in connection with St.meld. No 13 for 1998-99 in February this year. On 8 April, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade sent out requirements and guidelines for an IT knowledge centre at Fornebu which is at several points in conflict with or deviated from the proceedings of the Stortinget. After being able to read in the Financial Newspaper, no one will now offer what the Minister of Economic Affairs has drawn up as a precursor. And this suggests that, unfortunately, the Minister of Economic Affairs is squabbling away a unique possibility that Norway will have a national IT and knowledge centre on an international scale at Fornebu, as the Stortinget has decided. The question is: will the Prime Minister now take responsibility for the follow-up of the decision of the Minister of Industry?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e625	Of course, the government is prepared to follow the decision of the Storting. Since the Workers' Party has been having fun talking about the budget comrades about the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, I may be allowed to tell the Fornebu comrades about the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, because the Government has received a letter from the Workers' Party at Opseth and the Advance Party at Hedstrøm. This has been answered by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, and I believe that this letter, dated 23 April, demonstrates that the guidelines drawn up by the Department for stakeholders of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu are not contrary to the Storting decision. I can't go into this in detail now, but this is going on, among other things. on the area of dwellings, whether it is natural as part of such a centre, or whether they should not be able to benefit from the usual private housing market, whether for Fornebu or elsewhere. It concerns the terminal building and the issue of own versus rental until one has received the terminal building in such a condition that it is suitable for this IT and knowledge centre. This is difficult for me to go into more detail now, but I think one today should be a little careful to conclude that no one is going to give an offer on this. I think we can safely come back to that when the deadline for this has expired, and it is, as I know, very close yet.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e632	The Prime Minister would like to ironize a little over the Fornebu comrades. The fact is that it was the Progress Party and the Labour Party that made up the plurality in this matter, and that were the only ones who loyally followed up what the Storing put up as leaders and precursors in the previous discussion of the question of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. It is also true that the Prime Minister pointed out that the Labour Party and the Progress Party jointly asked some questions about this to the Minister of Industry. The Minister of Industry concluded that there was no basis for changing the requirements and guidelines that he had sent out, despite the fact that the majority of people asked the Minister of Industry to change them in line with what was then the great majority's real point. It is mildly eye-catching that the Minister of Industry does not follow the majority of the population here. And I have to ask the Prime Minister if he thinks that one of his councils is better able to interpret the bulk of the population than the majority of the population itself.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e639	It is clear that we focus on what the Progress Party and the Workers' Party have based on the decision they themselves made in the Stortinget, but I believe that the Minister of Economic Affairs shows in a good way that the manner in which he has sent out does not conflict with this decision. This is a decision that draws up a number of frameworks, within which the ministry has operated, including: in the light of the position of the so-called Spjøtvoll Committee, which, with its expertise, has participated and made part of the premises for what the Ministry has sent out at this point. I don't think we're going to waste the opportunity to get a good IT and knowledge center at Fornebu. The interest for this is so great in many environments, and it may also be that several actors merge and create an interesting concept. I think that we can safely come back to later when the deadline for offering is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e646	Then the time for the oral question procedure is over, and we go over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e651	There will be a wide range of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Dag Danielsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away. Question 4, from the representative of Elsa Scarbøvik to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 11, from the representative Annelise Höegh to the Minister for Justice, will be raised by the representative Anders C. Sjaastad. Question 15, from the representative Signe Øye to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs who will direct him. At the request of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, this question is moved and answered in front of question 27, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 18, from the representative of May Britt Vihovde to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of Harald Hove. Question 19, from the representative of Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of Arvid Falch. Question 21, from the representative Jan Johnsen to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Social Affairs, who has been removed. Question 23, from the representative of Elsa Scarbøvik to the Minister for Development and Human Rights, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 24, from the representative of Aud Gaundal to the Minister for the Environment, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 25, from the representative Jan Petter Rasmussen to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Food and Trade on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, this question is moved and answered in response to question 2, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 26, from the representative Annelise Höigh to the Minister for Labour and Administration, will be moved and answered at the request of the Council of State to answer question 3. The question will be raised by the representative of Anders C. Sjaastad.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e682	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘Norwegian officers ordered to serve abroad do not receive cash support for children of current age because the law requires residence in Norway. What will the Council of State do about this when, at the same time, the regulations state that they are considered to be resident in Norway during their stay abroad?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e691	A basic condition for entitlement to cash support is that both the child and the beneficiary of the aid must actually be resident in Norway. Abstentions abroad of more than three months lead to the loss of the right to cash support. The bus code is clearly reflected in the cash support laws, which were adopted by the Stortinget in spring 1998. It also implies that if only father lives abroad while mother and children are still residing in Norway, the child will be entitled to cash support. Even if the officer and others were to be considered to be resident in Norway in relation to the rules of other legislation, there is no automatic way that they should be considered to be resident under the cash support law. I would, however, say that, as far as I know, there is no provision for the people's protection laws that say that ordered officers are to be regarded as resident in Norway during foreign residence. The background for the strict conditions for actual withdrawal in Norway is that the cash support is close to whether and to what extent the child uses a state-owned nursery. Cash support should be an alternative to state-supported childcare space, and there is no government support for kindergartens beyond Norway’s borders. For Norwegian officers and all others working for Norwegian administrative or Norwegian employers outside the EEA territory, the cash support law applies without exception to their housing conditions. The EEA Agreement shall include, inter alia: ensure the free flow of labour between Member States. National conditions directly or indirectly preventing this free movement are not allowed. Social security Regulation 1408/71 shall ensure coordination between the various countries of their social security systems. Cash support is considered to be a family benefit under this Regulation and is therefore initially to be exported to the EEA territory. National rules that conflict with the rules of the Regulation must initially depart from the EEA territory. It is possible to negotiate derogations from the export of certain services covered by the Regulations. Due to the special nature of the cash support, with the close connection to the use of nursery facilities in Norway, it is being worked for the purpose of negotiating exemptions from the rule on the export of cash support to the EEA territory. The case has now been sent to the EEA Committee for consideration. We hope to clarify the issue of export of cash support to the EEA during the summer. If it was not agreed to negotiate an exception, the consequence would be that Norway will in certain cases be required to pay cash support also for children who are resident and staying in another EEA country. This could also include Norwegian officers assigned to service in another EEA country. After this, I find no basis for taking the initiative to change the cash support promise at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e715	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was to a great extent elucidating. But the main reason for the possibility of different interpretations is that when an officer is ordered to serve abroad for more than three months, he or she continues to be a Norwegian national, even if the address is in another country. The tax is also paid to Norway. Reporting a move to the country in which you are stationed is impossible, and therefore you are also excluded from obtaining the social security rights you would otherwise have obtained in this country. In the past, Norwegian officers abroad had a special agreement on child allowances, which would compensate for the loss of child welfare. Could this be something to consider also for the cash support? What does the State Council believe and want will be the result in terms of the EEA Agreement at this point?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e724	We had a discussion about that issue when we presented the cash support proposition, and we concluded that the cash support should be a performance as compensation for not using kindergarten space in Norway. So we chose to stick to it for Norwegian citizens who work abroad for a longer or shorter time. The Norwegian debt is officiating, as the representative asks, but it may also apply to others associated with Norwegian employers. Since this is a scheme that should be a compensation for not using kindergartens in Norway, we have insisted that it should not be given to those who live abroad for more than three months. I am pleased that the Stortinget, when the matter was dealt with, joined it. Of course, I would also like to say that I hope that, by considering this in the EEA Committee, we will continue to insist that the scheme should not be exported to EEA countries either.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e735	I will ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘Refer to notices showing that the Norwegian controlled Danish ferry company Easy Line AS starts traffic between Gedser and Rostock, despite the fact that the company that owns the ferry is controlled by Henrik Johansen, who was denied the right to operate shipping in the future in connection with Scandinavian Star-tradien. What will the Council of State do?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e744	The fire on the passenger ferry Scandinavian Star has put its mark on Norwegian consciousness. Therefore, it is natural that questions related to this tragic event arouse a particular interest in us. The Danish citizen Henrik Johansen was deprived of the right of shipping by the Danish Supreme Court. About his connection to the Easy Line AS ferry company, I can tell you the following: the Easy Line ferry company, which is to operate the ferry, and the K/S Storebælt command company, which owns the ferry, are both Danish companies. K/S Storebælt is allegedly controlled by Johansen. The ship of the shipowner is registered in Denmark and is intended to operate between Gedser and Rostock. Initially, very little Norwegian authorities can do with foreigners and foreign company activities abroad. As a result, there will be a case in the first place for the Danish authorities. However, I can inform you that my department has recently been in contact with the Danish authorities. We have been confirmed that the Danish maritime authorities have asked the Danish police to investigate whether Henrik Johansen violates the ban on shipping. I have full confidence that Denmark will enforce the relevant laws and judgments in this case, but can assure the representative that we will follow closely in the future. I would also like to take the opportunity to stress that a number of practical safety measures have been implemented in Norway following the accident. Since 1990, the Norwegian authorities have developed detailed requirements for, inter alia: installation of sprinkler systems, evacuation and safety analysis, ventilation systems, accommodation materials, emergency preparation standardisation and data recording. Norway has also been a driving force in achieving international consensus on such issues. In this context, I can refer to significant work that has been carried out in particular within the IMO. It is gratifying that several of the organisation’s recommendations coincide with the recommendations of the Norwegian sample. With regard to the visibility of responsibilities, the introduction of the ISM code has led to requirements for operational management systems, such as: means that liability is to be documented. Furthermore, mention should be made of the fact that the IMO Legal Committee has worked on different forms of compulsory civil liability insurance, which mainly addresses the problems of lack of knowledge of ownership. It should therefore be clear that improved safety at sea and prevention of recurrence of such accidents will always be a focus of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e761	The aftermaths of Scandinavian Star-trading and several others that we have also experienced right outside our own living room door show that it is very difficult to find out who was the real owner. Here's an example that it looks like you can just show up again and again. And we have problems figuring out who's the real owner. The question to the Council of State goes on, when just the Nordic countries have experienced a number of tragedies, whether Norway is also able to sit in the driving seat within the IMO at Nordic level. For the most important job here is to make sure that responsibility is laid down in the IMO, i.e. in the International Maritime Organisation, which means that one cannot hide behind anyone, as is still the case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e768	I fully agree with Mr Knudsen on these points of view. Me and the Ministry are engaged in this work at IMO precisely to ensure that it is easier to find out and get an overview of the ownership situation. As I said in my answer, a little bit of the core is to clarify the responsibilities, as this tragic accident showed that it was difficult to get done. It was possible to create networks where you could delete your tracks. That's why this is so important. I fully agree with the representative Knudsen that it is a central Norwegian task, not least because we are such a large shipping nation as we are, to sit in the driver's seat, to ensure that we get rules that make us get proper and clean conditions within this industry. With regard to the specific case mentioned here, and whether – as indicated in the question from the representative – Norwegian interests are linked to the operating company, there is a question we have not yet been verified by the Danish authorities, but we are constantly working on it to clarify it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e777	Then we go to question 25.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e783	This question, from the representative Jan Petter Rasmussen to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Food and Trade on behalf of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e786	I will allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘The State Cartels are now establishing a State business, PRIMAR, which, in competition with private operators, is to sell electronic maps, inter alia, from the State Cartels. The underlying agreements are kept secret from private operators, who fear distortions of competition resulting from job losses in small and medium-sized enterprises as a result. [[SMB]] Will the Council of State ensure full publicity around PRIMAR and guarantee that private operators have access to electronic maps from the State Maps on equal terms with PRIMAR?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e795	In St. prp. No 1 for 1998-99, a statement has been made that, in cooperation with the United Kingdom’s Maritime Mapping Agency, the Mapping Agency is continuing to establish a European Centre for the Management and Distribution of Electronic Charts and related Services for International Navigation. Data shall be provided on behalf of, and in cooperation with, other countries’ NSCs. Now this centre is a reality and the Minister for the Environment is present today in connection with H.M.K. Harald makes the official opening. PRIMAR is the name of the centre. PRIMAR shall facilitate the organisation of authorised electronic navigational charts on behalf of European maritime administrations in order to ensure seamless delivery of such maps across borders. PRIMAR has the exclusive right to such data from the national maritime charts. Private actors will have access to such data through PRIMAR. It implies that PRIMAR is to distribute the authorised electronic navigational charts through distributors operating on a commercial basis. Private actors may, as distributors, pass on such data and develop value-added services. PRIMAR already has enquiries from many companies that want to access their data. PRIMAR will not compete with its distributors when selling to end-users. There's a reason to notice that PRIMAR is established in Stavanger. It should mean positive ring-effects for regional business. Originally, the plan was for this center to be located in London. The Ministry of the Environment has, in the light of enquiries, briefed on the main points of the cooperation agreement concluded between ten European maritime mapping works. The mapping will initiate the publication of this agreement. The cooperation agreement between the UK Maritime Cartagena and the Norwegian Cartagena will also be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e810	As far as I know, PRIMAR is not registered in any register, so one can wonder if the king and several of those who are at the opening today know what they're opening. The International Hydrographic Organisation, the IHO, has decided to establish regional centres – so-called RENC – for the compilation and distribution of electronic chart data. The question then has to be: with what kind of law or authority can this body adopt decisions that are binding on businesses in Norway and what is the relationship with the EEA and the other countries involved? The agreements ‘Memorandum of Understanding’ and ‘Arrangement on Cooperation within the Northern Europe RENC’ are kept secret. The Council of State now says that one should be able to publish them at a later stage, but then it is too late, then this is already established. The starting point of secrecy is also strange in relation to the views of the Left and State Councils on public matters. How does this view correspond to the principle of public disclosure in the administration, which Sponheim has held high in relation to?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e817	First, I would like to stress that this opens today, is a centre under the Swedish Maritime Cartwork and is per. a division in the Maritime Cartwork. The question of doing so to a limited liability company in the light of these cooperation agreements is now under consideration. A briefing has now been given on the main points of the agreement between the ten European maritime mapping bodies, so it is known. This agreement contains a clause requiring the parties to approve the disclosure of details of the agreement between these ten countries. The Ministry of the Environment has asked the Authority to include the parties in the full publication of the agreement, so here we are doing what we can to get full publication. Let me stress that this is happening now, that it is possible to get authorized charts in digital form, does not prevent many good companies that can go further with this, organize it and add services to this service to meet the customers, who are the shipping companies and the boats.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e824	What the Council of State does not elegantly avoid is the very essence, the relationship to the delivery of digital data by the Maritime Cartries. It's reserved for PRIMAR. It is precisely where the point lies, that existing companies are working on it today and have evolved, for example. The company C-Map Norway, which since the beginning of 1993 has built up from two employees to 27, with departments in Estonia, Greece, Japan and the United States today. The company also has a large business in St. Petersburg. Such an enterprise will be affected by this, and that is the real question. Then again I have to ask the Council of State, based on his profiling of small and medium-sized enterprises: how can he defend such a procedure as this, where a state-owned enterprise strikes its legs under just such a type of enterprise? Therefore, I would like to repeat the question: will the Council of State ensure that private operators have access to electronic maps from the State Maps on equal terms with PRIMAR?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e829	The whole point of this matter is that it should be possible to get authorised charts in digital form, and that is the state maritime charts that can provide. Today, ships have to have paper maps that are authorized, on the bridge, in addition to what they buy from each company, such as the United Kingdom. this company in Egersund, C-Map. One option is that this company and other companies should be able to obtain authorised data to enable authorised CD-ROMs – which are put on with a chart – to avoid having authorised paper maps on each boat. There is significant progress for maritime safety, etc. As I said in my first answer, PRIMAR here should not act as a competitor of C-Map or other companies, but be a wholesaler that facilitates authorised digital navigational charts. It offers opportunities, and I'm going to make sure that the company C-Map and others should have all the opportunities to win in that competition, as other representatives from Rasmussen district have been concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e834	We go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e840	This question, from the representative Dag Danielsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e843	«According to the evening post of evening of 15 April 1999, the Chief Prosecutor of the United Nations Criminal Court in The Hague believes that President Milosevic is guilty of war crimes and that he should be charged with it. The war criminal court wants better cooperation with NATO countries to gather evidence. Will Norway contribute to the provision of the necessary assistance so that prosecution can be brought if this is justified?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e850	This issue is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but also concerns my own department. Since its establishment in 1993, Norway has been an active supporter of the Court of Justice, both politically and financially. Norway has, inter alia: as one of the few countries in Europe entered into an agreement with the Court of Justice to receive sentences for acquittal in Norway. Serbian leaders and their subordinates have been accused for a long time, and especially during the ongoing NATO operation, of supporting serious violations against the Kosovo Albanian civilian population. The accusations relate to massive forced displacement and deportation, executions, torture, rape and other physical and mental abuses. The international court of former Yugoslavia has the power to prosecute genocide, other crimes against humanity and war crimes committed in the former Yugoslavia, including Kosovo. No one, not even state heads, has any kind of immunity from such criminal prosecution. Serbia is otherwise obliged to provide assistance to the Court of Justice, including to allow investigations in Serbia. However, the Serbian authorities have for a long time been criticised by, among others, The Security Council for a lack of willingness to cooperate with the Court of Justice. It is the main prosecutor of the Yugoslav Court of Justice, currently Louise Arbour, who has the power to raise any charges against persons suspected of crimes in Kosovo. This is so far not done. On the other hand, like the authorities of a number of European countries, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has received an enquiry from the main prosecutor of the Yugoslav Court of Justice requesting assistance for the investigation of war crimes in Kosovo. The government is in favour of the enquiry and will make the best possible contribution. We in Norway are concerned that the culprits in Kosovo must be held responsible for their actions. All States are obliged to cooperate with the Court of Justice in, inter alia: investigation of this type of crime. The question of Norwegian contributions and the details of this work is under assessment in relevant bodies. By letter of 12 April 1999 to the Ministry of Justice, the Advocate General raised questions relating to the questioning of refugees from Kosovo with a view to detecting war crimes. It is up to the Advocate General to decide whether to carry out an investigation, but implementation requires, inter alia, closer cooperation with him. the non-resident authorities. However, in the interests of the safety of individuals and in order to ensure the successful implementation of the investigation measures in question, it is necessary to be withholding details. It is essential to stress that the Court itself must direct this work and carry out independent investigations by virtue of its role as an independent body. However, the Court of Justice is dependent on the assistance of individual countries, and Norway will do its utmost to facilitate the investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e873	I thank the Council of State for a positive response. I am very pleased that he stressed that there is no one, nor the political leaders, who have any political immunity in this matter. I also fully understand that the Council of State cannot go into detail on all the measures taken in this matter. But it is very important that people get this clarified as the Minister of Justice has now done, because it will increase people's understanding of Norway's commitment to this war based on the desire to prevent genocide. It is important to say, as the Minister of Justice has stressed here, that we will also go to the leaders, so that the leaders behind these actions cannot push this on others and get away from what they are responsible for. I thank you for a positive answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e882	The representative and I share the view expressed in my first answer that there is no one who has immunity from criminal prosecution from the war criminal court. This is also the case, as I said, that Norway will help with the investigation when those in charge of this court take the initiative. I also referred to the initiative taken by the Advocate General on an independent basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e887	Then we go to question No. 26.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e893	This question, from the representative of Annelise Höigh to the Minister of Labour and Administration, is raised by the representative of Anders C. Sjaastad.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e896	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘In the Question Time of 14 April 1999, the Council of State on a question relating to Statsbyggen announced the halting of a land sale for residential purposes at Marienlyst in Oslo that the Ministry has approved the use of State objection to the project. Can the Council of State explain why the Department has given State Building ‘green light’ to prevent a hard-pressed expansion of housing of about 300 housing units in Oslo?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e905	I explained to another side of this matter in the Questionnaire on 14 April 1999 after questions from the representative Lars Rise, and much of what I said in my answer then, also concerns this question. The area of land in question is 12700 m2. The NRK bought 5 300 m2 of the plot from State Building in 1995. The state-built condition for the sale was that the area should be used for public purposes, as the NRK also stated in its concession request. NRK A/S that owns the land has found that the area is not needed as part of the further development of NRK A/S activities. Through the sale of this area, NRK A/S wishes to finance new buildings in its core area. The NRK therefore wants the area to be re-regulated, so that their profits on sales are maximised. The state agencies that have expressed their views on the matter wish to maintain today's regulatory objectives. Of course, the Ministry of Labour and Administration has no interest in plunging platters into the wheels either for a necessary extension of housing in Oslo or for NRK A/S’ plans to finance its own development. However, the issue has several aspects and needs to be nuanced. In this case, an interest balance must be made where the need for land for public enterprises competes with areas for housing. Both of these purposes are important. For State Building, securing long-term landowners’ servers is an important task. It is important to take care of the long-term housing needs in Oslo, but as Minister of Administration, I must seek to have an overall and comprehensive perspective on such matters and, in the light of this, make a balanced balance of interests. It's natural to start from today's regulation of the area. The regulatory status of the area today is the result of long-term state landdispositions in the so-called Blinder axis. This area extends from the Slemdalsweg via the Blinder and all the way up to the Gaustadbeck Valley. Land is still needed for educational and institutional purposes in this area. Important establishments have already been located here, among others. Universitet i Oslo, Menighetsfakultet, Musikkhögskole/Musikkonservatoriet og Politihøgskolen. Although the NRK is now organised as a limited liability company, the company has to be assessed as a public enterprise for the purpose of the regulatory plan. The land reserves in the area are scarce and it is important that the properties already regulated for public purposes remain reserved for public use. I see the need for increased housing, but in this case the public interest is so strong that in my opinion the housing interests should give way. On this basis, the Ministry has no objection to the state-aided objection raised by Staatsbyggen to the NRK's regulatory proposal. When I said in my reply to the representative Lars Rise in the Question Time on 14 April this year that the department has approved the use of state objection by State Building, it is in this that the department has not objected to State Building's assessment as a trade union. The consequence of a state objection is not that it is automatically taken into account, but that the regulatory plan must be dealt with and, where appropriate, confirmed by the Ministry of the Environment if the Municipality of Oslo does not take the objection. There is thus a process in which the Department of Planning balances state objections to the municipality's plans and needs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e924	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which at one point was clarifying in relation to the answer last time, which I read with great interest – I was interested in in detail the answer – and it was that it contained a notice that one would still see a little more flexible on this with state objection than one could get the impression of in the previous Question Time. However, what is crucial to me here is that, on the one hand, the State has ensured that group taxation no longer pays off from state or private business but pays off from housing. At the same time, I agree that there must be a balance of interest here. But then I get to the important thing. I have understood that there is complete agreement in this government at least on one thing, and that is that it is important to decentralise authority to individual municipalities. It's because I have a lot of trouble understanding why the Council of State can't have the confidence in the Municipality of Oslo that the different considerations are balanced in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e931	I have a lot of understanding that Oslo needs more land for housing, but once again we need to clarify that we also have a strong need to have areas for public use. There are some problems that I had in my response to Lars Rise regarding the Musikkhöjskole, which also concerns this area. I would like to mention that we, too, from the state as well as we can apply to facilitate Oslo getting a larger living space. I would like to mention that State Building is currently working with the Municipality of Oslo, among others. on the development and design of the old Rikshospitalet – the project now known as Pilestredet Park. This project includes, inter alia: a residential area of approx. 900 dwellings. I also want to remind you of Fornebu. Although it is located in the municipality of Bærum, of course it will also apply to Oslo. Bærum municipality has set a ceiling of approx. 5000 dwellings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e938	Understand me correctly, I am not a spokesman for the forced emigration of state institutions from Oslo, but I must say that overall, the state has quite a lot of properties and a lot of business in Oslo. I almost have to be allowed to say to the Council of State that if you just used the properties you already have, in an optimal way, I think the government has more than enough. But housing is a big problem, which I think we all recognize. So I just want to say once again that I think the government should comply with its own advertisement, namely, the greatest possible power for the individual municipality, whether it's named Oslo or Traina.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e945	Whether the state uses its properties in an optimal way or not in Oslo Municipality, I can't comment, but it might be interesting to have a debate about it with Shaastad if he has strong opinions about it. In addition to that, we have a clear conflict of interest here, and we kind of have to deal with that. The state needs very much public plots, but I also understand Oslo Municipality. So we're in a conflict of interest, and I guess we're not going to get into this debate anymore. We still want from the state to keep this area for public purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e952	So we go back to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e965	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e971	I have a question for our Minister of Finance: «Fjordlink-Helminsen Skips AS operates short-distance services with limited duty-free sales abroad between Fredrikstad and Stroemstad by boat M/S La Vida. The company has applied for a derogation from the legislation in order to obtain long-distance status, but has been refused even if the competitor in ferry traffic on the Sandefjord route – Stroemstad of the same category has been granted a derogation for free tax-free sales. What are the grounds for discrimination on the part of the Council of State?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e980	It follows from the Norwegian legislation and from the Nordic Agreement on the provision of passenger ships in traffic between ports in Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden that on «short routes» there is only a possibility of duty-free sales to passengers of tobacco products and chocolate and sugar products. In addition, on routes other than ‘short routes’ there is a reason for duty-free sales of goods such as spirits, wine and beer, with specified quotas which can be taken by passengers free of charge upon entry into Norway. Ship routes between Norwegian ports from Risør to Swedish border and Swedish ports from Lysekil to Norwegian border are considered to be ‘short routes’. However, the Ministry of Finance may grant exemptions for special short sea routes, such that they are nevertheless considered to be «long». Following discussions between the Norwegian and Swedish Governments, a derogation was granted by decision of 18 December 1987 authorising tax-free sales on ferga Sandefjord – Stroemstad, although the route under the legislation is considered to be a «short route». The Ministry of Finance has otherwise applied the provision restrictively. The Ministry has subsequently received a number of similar requests for long-distance status, which have been consistently rejected. Fjordlink-Helminsen Skips AS applied for the first time for the status of ‘long route’ on the route Fredrikstad – Stroemstad on 15 December 1993. Company has da LPH Skips AS. The application was rejected. The company applied again on 27 April 1998 and was rejected. The Ministry of Finance has not found it possible to extend the basis for tax-free trade on ferries in addition to the exemptions already granted. Further exemptions, and consequently a subsequent increase in tax-free trade, will, in the Ministry's view, result in an undesirable erosion of the Norwegian customs and levy system and the loss of the country's income. Moreover, the increase in duty-free trade could have adverse competitive consequences for ordinary domestic trade. The extension of the duty-free trade could also result in increased illegal imports of goods into Norway. Although the status of a ‘long route’ does not provide for any derogation from the requirement that travellers should have stayed abroad for at least 24 hours in order to carry tax-free goods, it is particularly difficult to verify that the requirement has been met by such ferry services. The granting of a derogation would therefore require increased control efforts and therefore have administrative implications for customs. The situation in the EU, where it has been decided to abolish the duty-free sale of intra-Community air and ferry connections from 1 July 1999, also warrants Norwegian caution in changing our practice. On this basis, the Ministry of Finance found that Fjordlink-Helminsen Skips AS could not be granted an application for the status of ‘long route’.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1001	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which, on the basis of the question of course, I am not satisfied with. As an argument for not granting a derogation, he pointed out, among other things. that trade would result in an erosion of the Norwegian customs and levy system and a loss of revenue to the State. But as we experience today, we have a huge border trade leak from Eastfold – 2 billion kroner last year – and it is the typical baits, just alcoholic goods, tobacco and groceries, that account for the huge leakage and loss of income to Norwegian society. With the significant price differences we have today, a slightly more liberal policy of dispensation will only have a positive effect, because Swedish tourists arriving by boat will contribute to greater trade in Norway. I therefore ask: will the Council of State, on the basis of this reasoning, reconsider the restrictive dispensation policy of the department?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1006	I've had rounds of Hedstrom on the trade leak here earlier in the Questionnaire, and I don't want to benefit from the figures mentioned. That we have a trade leak to Sweden, there is no doubt about it. Whether further liberalisation in the case of tax-free trade would improve or exacerbate that relationship, I do not think there is any reason to dwell on it, since no one knows any sure answer to it. But the ratio is that the current distances that this is talking about are "short paths" as defined. So if you were to do something, it had to be to use the exemption. It has not been used for 12 years, and it is clear that it was not currant in 1987 either, because then there was contact at the political top before the scheme was introduced that this ferry route could nevertheless be regarded as a ‘long route’, despite the fact that it is of course ‘short’ as defined. Then we have had a number of applications, as I mentioned in my first answer, which have been consistently rejected. The company in question has also applied twice, under two different names, with the same result: a refusal. I do not see it appropriate to soften the restrictive practices that have been brought about now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1015	I'm not going to follow up with any further arguments, because I understand that the department has decided in the matter, despite two repeated applications and the argument I put up here and now. But I think it is sad that there should be discrimination, and that this type of tourism business, etc. to be selected by favoring a ferlote rather than others. I think that in today's society is very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1022	I agree that it should initially be equal to the law, so I can see that you think it is bad that you have granted a derogation in one case. But first, it's 12 years back in time, and it's given by another government. Of course, I don't want to criticize what was done that time, but it's been 12 years since, and all the practice then, both by several labor party governments and this government, has been consistently rejecting applications to erode the system we have today. And I see that, as I said in my previous answer, there's no reason to change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1030	I want to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘The rules for the registration of commuters lead in many ways to single and cohabiting commuters being registered and liable for tax in the municipality of work even if they have resided in their municipality of origin and commute there on weekends. In response to the signatures of 24 September 1998, the Minister of Finance wrote that he would take the initiative to eliminate various regulatory adjustments. What is the status of this work, and when will the Size be notified of the result?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1039	The question is based on my letter of 24 September 1998 to the representative of Torstein Rudihagen. In the letter, I went through the rules on the registration of single commuters, both in relation to people's registration and in relation to taxation. This review showed, for example: that single over 22 years of age who commutes from one dwelling to another dwelling at the place of work may lose the commuting allowance because normal cooking is possible in his own place of residence. This applies to the person who does not commute from a home he/she has in common with a spouse or his/her own children. In this context, I stated that it is not always reasonable that a lone commuter loses the commuting allowance because normal cooking is possible in his own place in his work home. On this basis, I stated that I see reason to have an investigation into possible adjustments to the concept of ‘self-contained dwelling’ in this field of rules. I mentioned that possible changes need to be investigated in close contact with the Tax Directorate, without I being able to say anything about the outcome of the investigation. I stated that I wanted to initiate such an investigation of various regulatory adjustments, and informed the Stortinget result. The study of these issues is being carried out by the Ministry of Finance. For the sake of completeness, these are taken into account in the context of issues related to the employer’s coverage of such expenditure on employees. Such joint treatment ensures the coherence of the rules. This is so extensive that it should be consulted. I intend to give the Storting a briefing on the matter in the state budget for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1052	I thank the Minister of Finance for the answer. I am also pleased that the distribution and work on these questions is now under way, and that one will come back to it in the State budget. Now I would still like to say that it takes a long time. The answer referred to by the Minister of Finance was from 24 September 1998. There are many examples now that single commuters are just out of line with this code. In many ways, they will be given a form of «compulsory move» from their municipality of origin to the municipality of work. I believe the Minister of Finance was at the heart of this, simply the definition of a self-contained dwelling. As society has developed, one must bear in one way after another that a commuter is allowed to have it a little more comfortable at his place of work than to live in a stupendous plant wreck, without the possibility of having such a cooktop. It's kind of the problem now, that if you have a slightly better standard, it's defined as a self-contained dwelling, and that's where one is more than 24 hours. So this has to be done by the Minister of Finance as soon as he can, and make a change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1061	I do not think there is any disagreement between the representative Rudihagen and me that the legislation we have today may seem unreasonable in many cases, therefore a serious assessment is being made with a view to amending the legislation. But when you start such an investigation and assessment, you're probably pretty quick to discover that it's not as simple as you'd like to make a change that's satisfactory. You can't risk going from one ditch to the other, and you can probably risk it if you're too liberal in accepting that a home in your municipality, however standard, will be considered your real home. But this is now under assessment, and I hope we will arrive at a borderline that can be seen as reasonable. As I said, I propose that the matter be presented to Stortinget for the autumn. That it has taken time, I have to admit, but this is because it is more complicated than you would expect.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1066	I thank you for your answer. I also see that it's complicated. You don't have to come up with a code here that provides room for abuse, so that someone who isn't supposed to have a pendulum deduction gets it. I see that possibility can lie there quickly. The problem now is that some agencies around the world practice this differently. There is a need to do something in the short term and perhaps open up a slightly more uniform interpretation of the code around the municipalities, and at least so that the commuters who are now incidentally in a municipality with a very strict interpretation of it are not punished more than others. Pending a final clean-up in the legislation on this matter, I could well imagine that the Ministry of Finance looked at how this was now being practiced around the country, and gave some leadership for it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1073	As I said in the previous round of questions in an answer to the representative Hedstrom, my starting point is that there should be equality of law, and that there should be an equal practice, and that applies equally here. I see the problem of having legislation that is not precise enough, and that it allows for different judgements and different interpretations at the different Equations Offices. We hope that what I expect to be presented to Stortinget becomes so much more precise that that problem will at least be reduced. That it disappears, I don't think so, because it's often the case that in many other areas the authorities also have slightly different interpretations and thus different practices, but there should be the least possible difference, that should be our starting point. So I hope, as I said, that what is now being presented for the harvest can be so satisfying that both Rudihagen and not least the commuters who are exposed to this legislation can be satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1083	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘There are still examples of the letter sent by County Tax Offices to traders by late payment of VAT which is perceived to be very unpleasant, most recently referred to in the Evening Item on 12 April 1999. Among other things, a request for outsourcing is threatened. This is an unnecessary, negative attitude towards traders, which reduces the level of enjoyment of the tax-paying obligation. What will the Council of State do to change these standard formulas and provide a better service setting in the tax rate?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1092	I would first like to point out that it is the tax authority, and not the county tax offices, who collect VAT, and who sends out letters of claim, etc. in the case of late payment. Tax authorities handle a very large number of tax claims at all times. Most of the requirements are paid in due time, without the use of any kind of alert or claim letter. However, there is a significant number of claims that have not been paid at maturity. There are different reasons why payment does not take place on time. Often it is only a matter of a short-term breach of the payment deadline, while in other cases there are more serious matters at stake. In cases where non-payment is due to more serious circumstances, it is essential for tax authorities to ensure the best possible level of compliance. This is done, inter alia: by establishing the necessary basis for the enforcement, where appropriate, as soon as possible. In this context, it is important to note that, as a tax creditor, the State does not normally have any form of collateral for its claims as they are incurred. Furthermore, it is possible to pledge all the essential assets of an undertaking by means of a contractual pledge. This is often done if the activity has come into such a bad position as to result in a more significant default of tax obligations. In order to carry out an outsourcing transaction, the debtor must first be notified that enforcement will be carried out. It is therefore important to have such a standard warning already from the first enquiry after the non-payment to maturity has been found. Before the debtor has responded to the letter of claim, it may often be difficult for the tax authority to assess the reason for the interim non-payment. At the same time, there are specific requirements for the content of such alerts under the Enforcement Act. Therefore, for practical reasons, letters of claim at this stage must have a standardised design. I understand that a letter of claim or notice of this nature can be harsh to the taxpayer and the taxpayer who accidentally pays too late. This applies in particular to letters of claim for interest, cf. the post at Aftenposten on 12 April of this year. In the standard texts on VAT claims etc. from the tax authority, it is concluded that: ‘If, however, the amount has to be paid in the last days, we ask you to disregard this claim.’ I am of the opinion that this reservation should be sufficient to ensure that taxable persons who have paid the VAT, but where the payment occurred too late, should not feel treated unfairly. However, for standard letters requiring interest, which are sent without prior notice, the standard text in my opinion is unnecessary. The Ministry has addressed this with the Directorate of Taxation, which will assess the options for amending the text of the letter of claim. I therefore expect that there will be a positive solution to the issue raised by the representative Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1119	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance foresees a positive change to standard letters. But I had not addressed this matter because of a single standard letter if I have not got the impression on the basis of a wide range of experience that the tax rate treats most taxpayers with a significant degree of suspicion, despite the fact that most are obliging payers. What I really want is a different attitude towards taxpayers that is also reflected in the standard letters that I know spit out of a computer after given deadlines. I think it is possible to comply with all the requirements laid down by the Enforcement Act on alerts, etc., and yet have a different attitude and tone in these letters. It's such a general attitude I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1131	I understand that someone who gets these letters of claim, who may have been forgotten a few days ago with the payment, may feel unreasonable to be faced with the prospect of forced recovery. But it's not the attitude of the employees of the relevant agencies that is being expressed here. That is simply the content of the form requirement. The requirements to be issued must comply with certain forms and must be warned before any enforcement action is taken. During the days available – it is usually sent out such an alert 10 – 14 days after the amount has not been paid – it is difficult for those to sit and deal with it, to assess whether it is a mistake or whether there is a signal of serious payment problems. I assume that Johansen agrees that tax requirements should also be ensured, and that it is up to employees to ensure tax claims on behalf of the community.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1138	I would not pursue this question if I did not know that it was possible to include other wordings in such standard letters. I have allowed myself in all modesty to make some formulations that can be used in addition to the legal requirements. I'm not going to read everything, but what I'm looking for is that you give a different attitude by bake-in – I kept saying – obvious legal requirements. For example, it was assumed that society attaches great importance to taxes and taxes being liabilities that go ahead of everything else. We are equipped with strong tools for recovery, because late payment creates unnecessary troubleshooting and costs both for you and for us, and we therefore ask for etc. My letter is somewhat more satisfying than this. I hope the President has nothing against me handing it over to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1143	That sounds pretty good.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1146	At least it was constructive to make proposals for improvements. I will ensure that this is sent to the appropriate person, and they will assess it. In any case, they shall consider the letters on the basis of the initiative I have taken in relation to the form of claims that relate only to interest. I think that there is a little difference between whether it is a principal, and then a much larger amount, or whether it is a de minimis amount of interest. I agree that there are unnecessary strict wordings here, and I expect that there will be a change, and at the same time it can be assessed whether Terje Johansen's proposal for wording can be assumed to be better accepted by those who owe it, for example. VAT.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1153	That's what time will show.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1159	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Norwegian Drugs Police Association, in a letter to the Judicial Committee, has announced that the Police College, with a budget reduction background, has cancelled all drug courses in 1999. Is the Council of State aware of this, and what can be done to provide further training for police officers in this highly priority area from Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1168	: In St. prp. No 1 for the 1999 budget, this government has said that restrictive drug policies should be pursued. Furthermore, it is noted that police efforts in this area need to be streamlined and improved, and that cooperation with customs is important. Priority should be given to prevention, especially to young people in settings where ecstasy and other ‘designer drugs’ are traded and used. Cooperation at international level shall be strengthened and further developed. Norwegian police, central and local, have gained substantially the necessary skills. There is hardly any danger that this competence may be weakened by the fact that the Police College cancels a planned course. In the last six years, 380 officials have received refresher training in drug research at the Police College. In 1998, all students in the last year of elementary education reviewed two thematic days on the subject of «Character and symptoms». The aim of this training is to improve students’ prerequisites for interpreting clinical indications of drug use. This is a new offer in basic education. The framework for basic and continuing training is defined by the Board of Police College and it is up to the management of the school to give priority to these. The number of hours of basic training is maintained and, as a result, basic drug education for the students is not reduced. In addition, as mentioned above, two thematic days of basic training have been completed. The school’s plan was to conduct two refresher training courses in drug research in 1999 — Stage II and Stage III. The course for stage II was completed in January according to the planned timetable. I have full confidence that the Police College's management and administration will implement the necessary measures to ensure the police's adequate competence in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1181	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I noticed that he would not take any initiative in terms of the political leadership and administration when it came to launching more training for the police in this area. It's sad because we're all concerned that one has to rush down on drug crime. It is also a fact that this crime is spreading across the country, and that far more within the police should have education and competence to see things and to be able to deal with this problem at an early stage. So I wonder if the Council of State should take a closer look at what we can do here, because what is available today is a voluntary course through the Norwegian Narcotics Association, which does not receive any government support either. In such an important area as this, I believe that the state should take responsibility for maintaining the training of the police.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1188	I have expressed the main view that the police high school board is responsible for the operation of the school, and in my opinion they do this in a proper manner within the framework they have at their disposal. I am at all concerned, within the field I am responsible for as a Council of State, to ensure that the responsibility of others is followed up by others. And I see it as an overall task in the Department of Justice to start a work to delegate authority. It is not particularly related to the Police College, but generally to the police's activities. I think it will be difficult for the entire justice sector whose state councils are always going to deal with some issues, even if they are combustible, but I would like to stress that the drug area is important. There is a good overall education, there is a good basic education, and although some courses are cancelled, it is my opinion that it does not threaten the quality of the police's work, but of course I share the representative's concern about the scale of drug abuse in Norway. It's a field that everyone is concerned about combating all of the instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1195	I did not intend to take any follow-up questions, but I would like to thank the Council of State for putting responsibility on those who should be responsible. That's exactly what I thought was right. People understand how to do the job they're supposed to do. It is an overarching wish of the Storting that we give priority to training and work to reduce the drug supply to Norway and the resulting crime. Therefore, it is also important that those responsible are well instructed in line with the expectations of the authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1205	I would like to ask the following questions to the Council of State Dørum: ‘Four judges must be removed from the Heggen and Frøland jurisdiction because ex-criminals have been placed as felons. According to a survey conducted by the TV 2 document editor, it is only 24 pst. by the municipalities which carry out checks on members of the jury and on feminists. 76 pst. by Norwegian municipalities do not check whether ex-criminals sit as co-judges and judge others. What will the Council of State do to improve control so that municipalities follow the intentions of the Court of Justice?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1214	First of all, I would like to make it clear that it is not that a judge is automatically abrogated because former convictions have served as co-judges. The judgments do not become nullities for that reason. Any revocation will only take place if the judgments are appealed against. Furthermore, Section 76 of the Law of the Court of Justice states: ‘Law-members and fellow judges should only be elected to people who, by virtue of their integrity, skill and independence, are considered to be particularly fit for their duties...’ So those who are elected must be ordinary, honorable members of society. In my opinion, it is important, in the interests of the reputation of the courts and the trust of society in the judiciary, to demand the conduct of the courts. In particular, it would be difficult for a party who loses a dispute or for an accused person who is guilty to ascertain the outcome if the honesty of the denunciations could be called into question. It is therefore, in my view, obvious that people like this. have recently been held in prison, should not be used as a layman. In line with this, the Law of the Court of Justice provides that people sentenced to conditional imprisonment in the last five years prior to the beginning of their term of office, or sentenced to unconditional imprisonment and not released within 10 years prior to the beginning of their term of office, cannot be chosen as a rectifier. These are the minimum requirements of the law. The rule in Section 76 on justice and special fitness implies that the municipality may also, in the circumstances of the case, extend the period of imprisonment, or the penalty for fines, in order to determine whether a person should be chosen. The ban on the choice of people who have been sentenced to imprisonment means that, if they do not know in advance the past of the candidates concerned, the municipalities are obliged to carry out a background check. The study conducted by TV 2 shows that there is some sin in the municipalities in this area. Prior to each municipal and county elections, and thus prior to each new parliamentary term for legislates, the Ministry of Justice sends out a circular to the courts and municipalities where we provide information on the rules and guidelines for the choice of legislates. The circular provides a detailed explanation of the procedure for the background control of denarii. In the circular to be sent out in connection with the year's elections, we will ensure that the municipalities' obligation to carry out such a check is strengthened. The size was taken as late as two weeks ago as a decision asking the Government to review today's practice in the selection of feminists. It will also be natural in this context to look at the rules and procedures for checking the behaviour of the denunciations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1236	It was nice to hear the Council's response. I thank you for your answer. In fact, state councils attend a lot of what I'm looking for. I would just like to clarify one thing, namely that under Section 343 of the Criminal Procedures Act, a court whose jurisdiction is unlawfully constituted must be removed. There's some of the heart of the matter here. I am pleased that the Council of State says that the municipalities are obliged to check the list of jurors and jurors against the criminal record. It doesn't seem like they're taking that job, at least per. Today, so serious, and there's a tightening up here I'm looking for. What I want to ask the Council of State is, when the municipalities have appointed these members of the jury or the courts, who is responsible for controlling them during the period for which they are elected?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1245	I have to make reservations about the answer, but I perceive it so that the check will be done at the selection. That's why it's so important that it's focused on selection, and that's why I want to take the two initiatives, first by inculcating what's going to happen, in the circular that's going out by default, but also in a review of procedures and rules, and in general control. In that context, I would also like to take the representative Stang's question with me, to see if there is anything further we can do than what we are doing today. That's what was in the general part of my answer, that we have to look at the rules to make sure that this control of conduct, with respect for justice and all the good virtues that we must and can rely on here in society, is preserved. So I'm going to go into this with an open mind. I don't have all the answers now on how it can be done best, but I'm going to work based on the fact that we need security for what's up to the representative Stang in his question to me, namely that you should be judged by people who feel it's legitimate to be judged by.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1252	I thank the Council of State for the answer. With regard to the clarification I was looking for, I probably do not disagree that the municipalities are responsible for the appointment. But as the four years go by, it's like you also have to follow up with a back-up check. And, in order to clarify it, is it the jurisdiction itself that will stand for it, or does the Council of State believe that it is the municipalities that have the obligation to back-check even during the four-year period?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1259	I have no concrete opinion on how to tighten up the rules, I said that in my first answer. I've just said that I'm going into it to see how we can do it, based on the Storting's decision in dealing with an interpellation from the representative of Hove, about the laymen. I then said that I would look at different aspects of how this can be done, and I would of course go into it with an open mind. My basic attitude has been clearly expressed. It's the one behind my work, and then we'll see how we can do it the best we can.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1267	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘The Norwegian Conciliation Council system is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, claims Line Ravlo. What is the Council of State’s assessment?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1276	In my opinion, there is no reason to believe that the settlement mechanism is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. I'll explain this in more detail. The European Convention on Human Rights Article 6 confers any right to have their civil rights and obligations settled by an independent and impartial body established by law, in the original text of the Convention, referred to as ‘the Tribunal’. The European Court of Human Rights has clarified that the word tribunal does not necessarily refer to a court of classical origin. The Convention requires the General Court to take its decisions in accordance with a prescribed procedure in the light of the rules of law. The Court of Human Rights has not called for any of the members of the Tribunal to have jurisdiction as a professional judge. How does the settlement mechanism respond to those requirements? Unless otherwise expressly provided, the general rules of procedure of the Arbitration Act shall apply when a case is dealt with in the Conciliation Council. The specific rules applicable to the Conciliation Boards are governed by the Law of the Court of Justice and the Code of Disputes. The human rights court has called for a tribunal to take its decisions in accordance with a prescribed procedure. The fact that the Conciliation Boards are to be based on legal rules when they refer to the judgment is not explicitly stated in the law. This, however, is not doubtful. The main criticism of the conciliation councils is that the members of the councils do not have legal education. This has been taken into account in Section 294 of the Law on Disputes. 4, by saying that the Conciliation Board may not issue a judgment in the matter when the matter is so difficult or uninformed that it is therefore not suitable for conviction in the Conciliation Board. In addition, it must be borne in mind that the individual has the right to bring the decisions of the Conciliation Board before the Court of Justice. In such cases, the case is treated as a normal first instance case for the notification. The reason why we have the Conciliation Councils in Norway is that we consider it beneficial to have curative demands decided in a simple and reasonable way for both the parties and society. In addition, the doctor’s aspect makes settlement councils a special democratic institution. Generally speaking, it is worth noting that the European Court of Human Rights takes into account the different ways in which European countries organise their legal systems. What the Court focuses on is whether the legal system of the countries is organised in such a way as to give individuals the right to a fair trial for an independent and impartial tribunal. Within these frameworks, the European Convention on Human Rights provides Article 6 with the space to choose the form that each country considers appropriate on its own merits, and on the basis of such a peculiarity, we have found in Norway the settlement mechanism as appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1299	I am very pleased with the assessment that the Council of State has made. As Leakwine, I have actually come to the same result. For this reason, I think it's good that we can continue with the Norwegian settlement board, which is a democratic and good arrangement, where a well-informed people who can have closeness to the problems and who people have confidence in. When we look at what the conciliation board deals with in a year, from 100,000 to up to 300,000 cases, we realize that this is a good way to relieve the other courts, and I thank again the Council of State for the assessment that has been made. This way we can see ourselves done with this question right here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1314	This question, from the representative Annelise Höegh to the Minister of Justice, will be raised by the representative Anders C. Sjaastad.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1317	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘On 14 February 1997, the Norwegian Association for the Low Sints was deprived of its approval and of the right to conduct lottery operations with ATMs because of an alleged breach of the provisions of the Lottery Act. Requests to the Ministry of Justice regarding the time perspective associated with the expectation of being without authorisation have not provided any clarification. Does the Council of State consider this to be a satisfactory way of dealing with the organisations of disabled people?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1326	Initially, I would like to remind you that former Councillor Gerd-Liv Valla referred to questions about the department's withdrawal of the Norwegian Federation's approval for Seversynte in Stortinget's Question Time on 28 May 1997. For information purposes, Tønsberg’s judgment of 8 October 1998 is now punishable for false explanation and for offences against the Lottery Act § 17 and imposed an unconditional fine of NOK 20 000. The judgment is justifiable. The association has, as it is known, brought the decision to revoke the approval before the courts. By its judgment of 6 March 1998, Oslo Byrett held that the decision to withdraw the authorisation was valid. The association has appealed against the judgment of the Borgarting Lawyers, and the main debate is scheduled in May. It is true that the ministry has received requests from connected parties and its lawyer to regain their game permits. The Ministry has assessed the related requests as an application for a redeployment of the Department’s decision to revoke the approval. By letter of 27 March 1998, the Ministry informed the Norwegian Confederation of Sweden that the Ministry had no reason to review the case. As long as the issue of the revocation of the Ministry of Justice was valid, it is the subject of appeal proceedings, I find it natural and not contrary to good administration to wait with the substance of a new application. If the Ministry receives a formal application for authorisation under the Lottery Act § 10 from the Norwegian Association for Swaksynte, the application will be dealt with in substance after the Borgarting Lawyers have given judgment in the case. I am aware that the proposal for new lotteries is delayed in relation to the original progress plan. I aim to promote the proposition for Stortinget in the spring session. In the proposition, I want, among other things, carry out a review of both the issue of acceptance under the Lottery Act and the possibility for authorities to sanction breaches of the Code.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1341	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I see as positive in several ways. I myself participated in the proceedings of the Lottery Act at an earlier stage of the Justice Committee, and must be allowed to say that there were many things about this law that were unclear. I also think that the practice of it is a little bit to be desired. Therefore, it is positive for the Council of State to both go in and look at the new proposal for lottery law and also to be open to an application that would have to follow the current rules. I just want to remind you that for the organisation that's inside the picture, income from this kind of activity means a lot. And even if – to put it a little humorously – you have not been able to read everything that is written with little text for the feeble mind, it also means a lot that you are willing to treat the organization.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1350	My answer showed that the organisation has a case in front of the courts, and I repeat that when the civil society court has completed the case, an ordinary application will be dealt with in the department. I would also like to say on a general basis, completely independent of this question, that I am looking at the Lottery Act to find the balance between the respect for the voluntary organization we are going to have, and the need for – how should I express it – to take the great sinners. To use an image from an enterprise other than the one you are asked for here, for example: bingo, there's a lot of small people running, and then we have big entrepreneurs. One must be able to draw a limit where one does not eagerly catch the big ones, for security reasons will also take the many small ones. I hope that I will find such a balance in the work of the law, and will then forward the result to the Storting, so that the Storing can of course look at it. It is generally – and I repeat, regardless of this matter – a need to reflect respect for the diversity of civil society and, at the same time, to ensure respect for the law, and I perceive that that was the intention of the representative's additional comment to me.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1359	I am becoming more and more satisfied with the more questions I ask the Minister of Justice, and the more answers I get. I think he has just come up with what was the problem that some of us were concerned about a few years ago, and that I don't seem to be reflected well enough neither in the existing lottery law nor in part of the practice around it. So, as I said, I want to keep asking the Minister of Justice when there are so wise answers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1368	Does the Minister of Justice want to respond? - No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1374	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘For a period of 1 1⁄2 years, a 14-year-old girl with a cerebral couple has been referred to a secondary school in the municipality of Gildeskal, where teaching is now taking place on the second floor and is therefore difficult to obtain. The parents have sought to transfer her to an organized secondary school in the neighbouring municipality, which the municipality has refused. The parents have therefore taken out the separation and the mother has moved to the neighbouring municipality with the daughters. Does the Council of State consider this to be acceptable also in the light of the decision of the Storting in the Training Act § 8-1?»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1383	The Ministry is familiar with the matter referred to by the representative. It is not a simple matter, although the rules about this are clear. § 8-1, which by the way does not come into force until 1 August of this year, gives the student the right to go to the school that is closest to the municipality where they live, or to go to the school in the community to which they belong. There is no training law anyone allowed to go to school in a municipality other than that of a cage. The same liabilities after the landslide, which are valid until 1 August. Section 10 of the Landeskulelova provides that the municipalities are to make provision for suitable schools. This staff member has been continued in the Training Act § 9-5. In this case the municipality believes that they have sewn for decent schooling. In the event of an appeal against individual decisions following a basic ruling, the State Training Office is the Board of Appeal. The cases referred to here have been dealt with as a complaint at the State Education Office in Northern Ireland. Following a request from Barneombodet, the training office has re-examined the case after the appeal procedure. The training office has been looking at the two schools, and found that the ideas can be adapted to both. The State Educational Office has not supported the complainant. Saka is treated in line with promise, but has had dramatic consequences for the family. I would therefore like to contact both the municipality and the family to try to find a decent solution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1396	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it is positive that the Council of State itself will go into this matter by contacting both the municipality and the family to try to find an amicable solution. It has been important for Stortinget that disabled children should be able to attend their secondary school. That is why we have also amended the Primary Education Act and adopted the Training Act that they should have a statutory right to do so. It also implies that the municipality must ensure that the secondary school is organised for disabled children. In this particular case, the school is not. The teaching takes place on the second and third floors, and there is no lift installed there, but it is possible to make the school available. Until that happens, the student has to get the offer that his parents are asking for, namely education in the neighbouring municipality, where conditions are arranged. What does the Council of State think of that?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1409	I agree entirely with the representative Dørum that the Storting and the Government have a common intention that there should be a possibility for disabled people to use their close-knob. Then it turns out that it's not always easy to practice promises, and that one doesn't always do it when they've seen one. In this case, the family has actually found to have to go to separation, and it's clear that it's completely across it both the Storting and the Council of State wanting. I don't think I want to go into the solutions more specifically, not to bind anything in advance. I want to find a solution that the girl and parents thought could take care of her sundry right to elementary school.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1416	I thank the Council of State for a positive attitude on this matter. In his first answer, he said that ‘in this case, the municipality had to believe that they had been sick of decent schooling’. This cannot have been done by the municipality, because the students were moved from teaching rooms on the first floor to premises on the second floor of the school. The parents then took the children out of school. The father writes in a letter to the municipality that after the lift is installed, she will come back, but it remains to be seen whether she dares to use it, because it is uncertain. When moving a disabled student from the first floor to the second floor, the municipality has not provided decent premises. That should be quite clear. I now hope that this matter can be resolved, and that all the achievement will fall away, so that the student will have a well-adapted teaching plan.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1425	What I said in my first answer was that the education office had been looking at the two schools and found that the idea can be adapted to both – that is, not that it does. the date was like this – and with that as a background I will go into the matter. I don't want to go into any more detail about work today, not to bind anything in the further processing. But the representative Dørum and I have a common understanding that it is important to come up with a solution that allows both the family to have a normal life situation, and the girl to get the education she needs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1435	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: «According to the look-up in the Gudbrandsdølen Dagningen, the state of the operating buildings on Skåk is prestigious in a wretched constitution. Agricultural authorities in the municipality believe that this means that environmental requirements for dairy farming in general cannot be met. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the management of the property of that State complies with public authorities’ requirements?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1444	After the Stortinget decided in 1986 that the property of the Information Society Fund could be sold, it is sold for approx. Ninety eggs. In 1996, a high level of prestige was established for the hall. The silver salsa process is time-consuming with, among others. an extensive public hearing, meeting activity with the municipality and clarification of the public's need for land. There are now about 50 possessions that are for such an assessment. Salssaka has come so far that as soon as we can, we will decide whether Skåk Presegegard can be sold or not. We have registered that some buildings at Skåk presegegard have a low standard, but as far as I know, there are no public orders to repair them yet. We want to review the situation on the basis of the reports that lead us, so that we are sure that the property complies with public requirements. I would also like to add that if the property is to be retained in the Information Society Fund, we will of course give priority to the necessary measures for the operation of the property in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1453	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I thought it was nice that he would reconsider the situation regarding Skåk prestige. I assume that the Council of State and I fully agree on the significant cultural value that the Presbyterian Guards represent in Building Norway, both structurally and culturally. Banknotes such as: that the State leaves the vicarious gardens to fall due and that the State admits malpractice is not leveling at all to the authorities and is not in line with the good delivery gel that one must deliver over the garden in at least the same good condition as one has taken over it. In the newspaper interview in Gudbrandsdølen Dagningen, the representative from the department confirms that the lack of money for maintenance leads to the expiration of several preselection facilities. This year only NOK 6000 has been given for the maintenance of this garden. But lack of money is not the only reason for lack of maintenance. It is said in this interview that they hesitate to invest in gardening facilities to be sold in a short time. Is this a position to which the Council of State subscribes? And does he think it's in line with good management of community property?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1466	Of course, I agree with the representative of Tingelstad that, in this case, the fund of the Information Society should be managed in accordance with the principle in which the agricultural industry is honoured to manage, to hand over ownership to the next generation in the same condition as one would expect to find it. It's a shame one should have such newspaper headlines. What we're about to do is we're going to have a bigger review to sort of get a proper look at what's going to be kept in the Information Society's fund, and what's going to go on. So it's like there's budgetary frameworks here, too, and unfortunately it's sometimes so that they don't stretch. But you might also be talking about how to manage your health. As far as possible, an attempt must be made to avoid what has happened here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1475	I thank you again for the answer. I noticed that the Council of State in the previous answer said that he did not know that there were any public orders so far. [[Tingles]] I have contacted the agricultural authorities in the countryside, and there is a report that has been sent, that the pig-fowl is in very poor condition, and that the heavens are falling down. However, it says that the bovine compartment is usable but does not comply with new regulations, which are to be complied with by 2005. The worst thing is that the manure cellar is too small, despite the fact that the number of animals is less than the area and the roughage base should be indicated. Then it is clear that the packagers are frustrated. It is also part of the story that they have just received an offer for a new lease, so they will not be talking about sales this year. But in this lease agreement, I was informed yesterday, there is a lease fee of 35 p.m., and it is going to be pretty tough when no repairs have been made. I would like to hear the state council's comment on this, and whether he will go through the entire prestige management and the process in terms of sales, again, as he suggested in the second answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1488	As the representative Tingelstad referred to the report that had been sent, I believe that it was in line with what I said, that there is clear advice here on what needs to be done to meet the obligations until 2005, but that there is no requirement. At the same time, it is clear that when there is a house to fall down on a symbolism as strong as a prestige, it is negative. When it comes to the specific offer that has come, it's probably a general proposition that has been made, given that these leases have been very low and little regulated. But I'm saying that as long as there's a lot that hasn't been done, it might seem high. So I'm once again confirming that we're going to go into this case and try to get to a multiple-story finalization, so that we can kind of put this into a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1498	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «Buskerud County Municipality, Upper Eiker Municipality and Kongsberg Municipality as well as the business community at Kongsberg have merged on the shooting of E134 to Kongsberg. So far, the municipalities involved have received positive feedback from the Ministry for their local initiative. Despite this, the Ministry of Transport will now, according to the media, postpone the matter to the next year's budget. Can the Council of State cancel media claims and confirm that the matter will be presented in the revised budget?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1507	The press releases that the Ministry of Transport will postpone the case are not adequate for the facts. The development of E134 from Hegstad to Damåsen is an important task. On the assumption of satisfactory funding, work may start in 2000. The Ministry has no desire to postpone this. If such progress is to be possible, the Storting will have to adopt funding during 1999. In time, there are now two main options for treatment in Stortinget. One will be to present the matter now in ours, the other to present the matter in the budget for the autumn. Both options are satisfactory with regard to the start-up of the project in 2000. The county forwarded the necessary decisions by letter of 18 February 1999. In a letter dated 26 February 1999, the Ministry briefed that the matter had to be dealt with by the Directorate of Roads. In all cases, it is necessary that pre-workers maintain high quality. Often, work is time-consuming and, in addition, priorities need to be given to other important tasks. For reasons I have explained, the Directorate of Roads has not seen it as time-critical and necessary for the physical progress of the project that it is being dealt with in the Stortinge in ours. However, in view of the strong local demands for treatment in our company, I have asked the directorate to speed up treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1520	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that the Council of State has realized that there is a strong local desire to clarify this matter in ours. It shouldn't come as a surprise. The business community at Kongsberg and the relevant municipalities have worked very efficiently and well with this matter to get it there as soon as possible. All local policy decisions are taken, and everyone is now waiting for a decision. The reason we want to deal with the matter in ours is that we want to know. The business community at Kongsberg wants to know that there is really going to be some of this agreement that has now been concluded, which I must say is a good agreement, in which the business community has also made a strong commitment and will go in with the means to get this road project going. So I ask the Council of State: what obstacles does the Council of State now see so that the matter can really be presented in ours, as we want?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1527	The practical obstacles lie in the project itself in terms of the content of the project and the technical progress of the project. I am in favour of the local solutions proposed in this context and in a number of other contexts, in order to get the project ahead in time, but we should remember, of course, that an advance means that it will be refunded in the next round. A recovery plan must therefore also be in place when presented to the Stortinget. However, what is a problem, both here, in the Oslo package, in the Eastfold package and in a number of other contexts, is that one forgets the role of the Road Directorate and that it takes time to deal with these matters there. With regard to the revised national budget, I cannot clarify here and now what it says, but I stick to an old word that says that the one looking, he finds. And maybe you'll find something interesting also in the revised version.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1536	The Council of State is concerned that what is being foreshadowed is also to be paid back, and that is quite correct. There is also one reason why the parties involved would like to see a clarification as soon as possible, so that they know what they have to do with. It goes without saying that when the business community, countless companies, goes into Kongsberg and wants to finance something that should be a public task, namely to build a European road – the main road between Drammen and Haugesund – they would like to have a quick feedback that says that ok, we go for this agreement, and the refund will take place from that point in time. The majority of the Committee has also requested that this matter be dealt with promptly and that the agreement be submitted for final approval. I therefore hope that the Council of State can now go as far as to say that this agreement will be presented to us in our Parliament, and that it will be dealt with before the summer holidays.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1543	If the Council of State went so far that he said what was to be found in the revised national budget, it is not certain that he was the Council of State so long after that. I rather think we have to say it so that everything that is possible to get this out from the Ministry of Transport will be done, so that it can be processed in ours, but I have to take a little reservation regarding the technical implementation, to which the Storting must come back when the matter is being dealt with. This applies to propulsion and some details. The matter itself is in the best hands, but the details we have to get back to during the treatment here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1550	Question 15 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1556	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The request for permission to use combinations of vehicles with a total length of 25,25 metres is under assessment. Vehicle train according to the modular principle as well. Norwegian road trains which consist of a tractor, semi-trailer and bogie core operating abroad have problems when they reach the Norwegian border. Will the Council of State consider whether such combinations of vehicles may be permitted or may be exempted from driving in specific corridors in Norway, such as on E6 where the road standard is satisfactory?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1565	With effect from 17 September 1997, Norway has incorporated the EU legislation on weights and dimensions into Norwegian law. The maximum permissible length for towing vehicles and towing vehicles is 18,75 m in the whole EU/EEA territory under this Directive. Vehicle put into service before 17 September 1997 may be used with different dimensions until 1 January 2007. In the Directive, there is an exceptional rule which allows, under certain conditions, to drive with a vehicle towing of a total length of up to 25,25 m. This is usually referred to as the modular system. Sweden and Finland have applied this rule of exception. The Directorate of Roads has identified the consequences of introducing such a modular system in Norway. The issue raises a number of questions related to, inter alia: to industrial policy, competitive conditions, road safety, the environment and consequences for road maintenance. The Directorate of Roads has assessed that they will shortly submit their recommendation to the Ministry. The case, including the further process, will be assessed in the Ministry of Transport when the directorate’s recommendation is available.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1576	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am aware that there are many reasons to take care of these large wagons. This applies, as the Council of State was also concerned, both to the environment, road safety and to road standards. But we must, as he was in the past, take into account our business life. Once upon a time, the cost of logistics in Norway is very high, and then the question is whether it is not possible to allow this on some routes. I understand that is under assessment and will soon come to the Ministry of Transport for a decision. However, the question is whether it is already possible to consider applications for a derogation. Or is it that you have to have the whole question settled before you possibly go into this scheme at all?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1583	Only with regard to the question of the possibilities for exemptions: the Directorate of Road has been given authority to grant exemptions for special transport in specific cases, cf. Regulation on the use of the vehicle of 25 January 1990 No 92 §5-2 and 5-6, and Annex 2 on the detailed conditions for exemption and on the permissible length and width without exemption. This applies then to the maximum vehicle length. As regards the questions to be considered before giving a clear signal, I would like to remind you that the length of vehicle combinations should be increased, and the total weight of these should also be increased. Norway currently has a total weight of 50 tonnes. Introduce the modular system, it should be estimated to increase to 60 tonnes, as done in Finland and Sweden. This Directive provides for this possibility and does not restrict national regulation of the total weight. So it's not just the length that will be the basis for assessment, but also the weight, so that these things have to look in a total context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1595	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that the Directorate of Roads has been given the full and complete authority for the dispensation in relation to the present. What has been said on application, however, is that this modular principle is under assessment, and that one does not want to dispensate until one has evaluated the whole case. I would like to ask if the Department has ordered the Directorate of Road to postpone all processing of waiver applications until this is decided in principle. What is important in this case is that those who drive in both Finland and Sweden can now drive with this length. That is important, because they are put under pressure to run as efficiently as possible and at the lowest possible cost. It is clear that between Finland and Norway and between Sweden and Norway there are corridors where there are opportunities to allow these car combinations to run.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1604	In order to introduce the modular system in Norway, a formal amendment of Annex 1 to the Regulation for the use of the vehicle on 25 January 1990 No is required. 92, where the Authority is attached to the Directorate of Roads. I believe that the Road Directorate has also taken into account, during its proceedings, the political signals given by this Chamber and the leadership given. They are recommended to the Department, but it may be that political signals given from this Chamber may have an impact on the principle of dispensation itself. Then I think of the leaders who were put into a matter we dealt with in the Storting just a week ago, when it was NSB BA and the message about it, where a majority had put some leads at this particular point. There is no decision in this room that binds on this issue, so that the Road Directorate has the necessary armpits in its overall assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1614	I will ask another question to the Minister for Transport: ‘The development of E6 to four-field road and new E18 through Eastfold is of vital importance for industrial traffic not only for Eastfold but for the whole country. In particular, the development is also of great importance for road safety. Eastfold county councils have decided by a large majority that such development should be partly financed by tolls. Will the Council of State make a deposit proposal on the Eastfold package now in spring?»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1623	The work on the Eastfold package includes a plan for infrastructure development in Eastfold and how this can be financed in the foreseeable future. The plan includes what I understand, among other things. development of both roads and railways, urban projects and port connections. The Eastfold package is a big and important thing. It requires proper treatment at all stages and in an ordinary manner. The Ministry has received a copy of the Østfold County Council Decision of 25 March 1999 on the Eastfold Package. The case is now in an ordinary way for treatment in the Road Directorate, which must also involve the Railway Agency. It is too early to say when it will be possible to forward the matter to the Ministry, and therefore it is also difficult to indicate when it could be promoted by the Stortinget. Although this case is highly prioritised, it seems clear that it cannot be presented to the Stortinget now in ours, cf. also that it has been relatively recently prepared locally. In my meeting with stakeholders in Eastfold on 30 April, this issue will also be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1632	I agree with the Council of State that this is a major and important matter, especially for Eastfold, but also for the whole country. It is also important for reasons of transport, and it is clearly important to ensure that it is properly treated. Local authorities have had close and close cooperation on the Eastfold package with former Minister for Transport Dørum, and it is important for the case and for the way it has been dealt with locally – they have worked both efficiently and hard to get this package out – that the same emphasis is placed on this both in the Department and in the Road Directorate. And I am of the belief that if the Council of State prioritizes this package as high as the former Council of State did, he will give political signals that this has the highest priority. And then I ask the Council of State, will he do it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1637	It is not a matter of priority for the Council of State. On the contrary, I have just said that I prioritise the matter. But we cannot ignore the evaluation and conclusion of the professional bodies, and the professional bodies in this context are the Road Directorate and the Railway Agency. They got it a few days ago, shortly after Easter. Then they started their treatment, which will end up in a recommendation to the ministry. It means, in other words, that either the Council of State is called Dørum or Fjærvoll, one must always deal with a similar procedure for dealing with this important issue. After all, you're going to spend 10-11 billion dollars, and the first part is going to cost between 4 and 5 billion dollars. It must then be presented to the Stortinget with just the technical assessments and recommendations of the Road Directorate and the Railway Agency. I will discuss this in Eastfold at the end of this month, and I think we will agree on a progress.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1642	When former Minister of Transport Dørum was confronted with this question both during the last financial debate and during the treatment of the transport budget, he still pointed out that it would not be at the Ministry of Transport when it came to obtaining this package. And he has said that he sees for himself that this package, especially in the case of E6, will be completed by 2007. And I hope that the Council of State has put this on its mind and will follow up on this part. It is clear that procedures must be followed. But I also know that the state politicians met yesterday with the Road Directorate, where the Road Directorate then answered a question, that they have to wait for the Council of State's response in the Stortinge today. There is a clear signal that here the Council of State also has the opportunity to give back signals about the priority of this package, so that this is brought forward as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1647	As regards the priority of the package, there is no doubt that it is high. However, the government's problem is that the Storting split up already the third week in June, otherwise there would have been no problem defining the spring as the time when the proceedings were completed and the matter could be presented to the Stortinget. But I would like to remind you again that we have only received it after Easter, until the department has received a copy of the decision. The matter was sent from the road manager to the Road Directorate after Easter. They have started their treatment, and I would find it irresponsible on the part of the Council of State to say that a billion-dollar project like this is not going to undergo the usual procedure. But I'm adding: there's to be a high priority both at the Road Directorate and at the Railway Agency, because both are involved here, and there has to be a interconnection here. When the matter is ready to be submitted to Stortinget, it will be submitted. But let me remind you that at local level this matter has been on the way for a considerable amount of time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1655	This question, from the representative May Britt Vihovde to the Minister for Transport, is raised by the representative Harald Hove.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1658	I would like to put the following questions to the Minister for Transport on behalf of May Britt Vihovde: «The Welfare Foundation of the University of Bergen and the University of Bergen would like to start a bus service between student buildings and study places in the city. Which means that the students can get cheaper communication. They have now applied for a two-week trial project. During the probationary period, students will run free of charge, later a fee will be paid. How does the Council of State view this bus operation, and what conditions must be fulfilled in order for such a route to be permitted?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1667	Section 3 of the Transport Act requires permission to operate a regular passenger service with a motor vehicle. Good conduct, financial guarantee and professional competence are required in order to be granted permission. The conditions are set out in the Regulation on access to the profession of coach or ship passenger transport operator of 4 December 1992. It is a municipal responsibility to organise the local public transport, including the allocation of routes when the county feels it is necessary. Student organisations will be able to apply for route permissions on the same line with others. With regard to this specific case, the Ministry of Transport, in a letter of 14 April 1999 to Norsk Studentunion Bergen, gave an explanation of the conditions which must be met in order for the route to be operated without authorisation. There can be no separate payment of the passengers on the bus and the financing of the operation of the bus must go beyond the general budget of the student bodies, and not e.g. through specific ear-marked units/quotas from those using the bus. However, as I have seen the background to the case via the contacts of the county and student organisations with the department, it is not the collective offer itself, but the ticket prices the students respond to. Each county has the freedom to determine the pricing policy on the basis of local assessments. Very well known is not the student discount particularly common in the local regular service. With the exception of social discount schemes, no lead has been given from the Ministry of Transport. Nor are there plans to change the basis of these leaderships, which directly interfere with the economy of the county.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1676	First, I will be allowed to thank the Council of State for the answer. I would like to say that it is important to increase collective use. It is still the case that many students are young people, and it can therefore also be a matter of giving good habits at a young age. In addition, students have limited finances, and transport costs are likely to be relatively high in their costs. It also affects the cost of furniture and urban housing patterns that transport costs have to be included in the cost of living. On this basis, it is easy to understand the initiative taken by the welfare organisations and students in Bergen. I will therefore allow myself to ask the Council of State whether he will look at the regulation and assess either change or interpretation practices, so that one can reward creativity that aims to ensure cheaper collective offers and greater use of collective travel offers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1685	Governments agree that it is important to increase collective use. Governments also agree that getting good habits in young people is very important. Therefore, the Council of State supports those who want to get young students into collective use, and over to the bus in this case. When it comes to the specific question of whether I want to look at the regulations, I take that call with me. I can't answer what the result is today, and I will review the regulations in the usual way to see if there will be a basis for change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1692	I thanked the Council of State for the answer without giving any qualification, and will be allowed to comment that on the content side there was a greater reason to thank for the answer to the supplementary question – and I would therefore like to express pleasure over it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1700	This question, from the representative of Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of Arvid Falch.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1703	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: The entry must be preceded by a record word at all times. Following the reorganisation of Post Norge BA, it has repeatedly been assured by the Council of State that the quality of the service should not be impaired. On 15 April 1999, the future of the Nordic countries writes that residents of Krökmo in Hamarøy will now only receive mail delivery every other day, against every day before. It seems to the Council of State that getting 50 pst is of good quality. reduction in supply?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1712	The concession to the Post provides that, as far as possible in relation to the residence structure, all persons living by road who are dangerous by car or other means of transport suitable for postal distribution shall receive mail, including newspapers and leaflets, as well as notices for registered consignments, letters and packages, delivered in the mailbox at or near the place of residence. Transmission of priority postal items shall be carried out every working day, Monday to Saturday. Therefore, in principle all postal recipients should be delivered mail each day at or near their place of residence. The post has stated that in the Harstad postal area, where there is a lot of scattered settlement, one retains daily service in all areas that have at least two households per. Kilometres. Furthermore, the Post has informed that at Kråkmo there is about one house per person. kilometres, and the postal breakdown in this area is every two days, in accordance with internal guidelines. I would like to point out in particular that the Post cooperates with local authorities to create satisfactory arrangements for the postal services in individual areas. The post is faced with difficult balances between the best possible level of service on the one hand and economic realities on the other. I am, as Minister of Transport, prepared to enter into a dialogue with the Post on these considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1723	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased that he will look into the situation, so that they may want to improve. What surprises me is that they say the Post follows the code we have. But what's really weird about this case is that the post office car passes these mailboxes every single day, and there must be a certain opportunity to stop and put the post office in these boxes. They cannot have such a tight postal route that it should not be possible, and especially when it is so few. It is not satisfactory for us in the district to receive such treatment as is the case here. It makes no sense to get newspapers that are two days old.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1732	First, I would like to say in general that the Post and Telecommunications Authority, which was established on 1 June 1997, is responsible for overseeing the Post as complying with the concession terms. It is therefore possible to promote complaints to postal and telecommunications regulators regarding the level of service of postal services. That was the general one. When it comes to the local matter that has been raised, I have not addressed in my answer a specific treatment of it here and now, until I know it too badly. It is up to the Post as a company, as a body, to deal with it. What the Minister of Transport can do is give some signals. What the Storting can do is, of course, to increase the purchase of services at Post in those areas where it was supposed to show that this is out of proportion to costs and to what the Post can deliver. We're going to have to go back to this in budgetary terms. I have registered what the representative Falch has said about the specific situation and the fact that the mail car passes, and take note of this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1744	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Knowledge and experience over a long period of time has made the State Road Service a specialist in operation and maintenance. Private operators are determined to be able to compete with the Vegvesen’s own business on operational responsibilities, and private individuals are already widely used where the Vegvesen finds self-employment profitable and where cost-effectiveness is already high. How should the State Road Administration be guaranteed opportunities to compete on a level playing field with the private sector?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1753	The state’s self-production and private activities have different frameworks. The greatest advantage for private contractors is the freedom to compete for assignments throughout the construction market. They thus have the opportunity to obtain profits from activities other than road work. Its own manufacturing activities have the advantage of allowing it to plan in the long term, but on the other hand, the production activity is linked to the area of activity of the Road Administration. There are also other differences in the framework conditions for private and State activities, such as the health pay scheme and the rules on value added tax and investment taxes. The tax differentials are now being monitored by the Directorate of Roads. The State sickness pay scheme is also up for assessment. The Ministry of Transport will work to harmonise the framework conditions for the Road Administration's own production and similar private activities. In the first place, however, the results of the ongoing investigations on the differences in taxes and the sickness pay scheme must be awaited. I can also inform you that State Consultant is currently reviewing the competitive situation in the state road system. In particular, State Consultant will document and clarify the proportion of resource use in traffic and production departments subject to satisfactory competition in the context of this investigation. Furthermore, Statskonsult has been commissioned to outline possible measures where an unsatisfactory competitive situation may be identified. The Ministry of Transport will inform Stortinget at a later stage about the outcome of the State Consulting investigation. I will also come back to the question of the competition between the State Road Administration and the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1764	I am pleased with the main response of the Council of States to the fact that one will now have a review of the rules of the charging system and also assess the harmonisation of the differences in charges, which do not appear to be there. Otherwise, I also think it is right that the investigation referred to by the Council of State is correct. I have noticed – as far as it is possible to get an overview of it – that around Norway, attempts are being made on a perhaps larger scale than I thought were the Stortinge assumptions. So what I'm really wondering about and want to ask the Council of State, is that there's extensive testing, that means that it's put up for an increased privatisation of maintenance and operation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1771	On this issue, the Ministry tries to follow the leadership of the Storting, last from December 1998, when it was decided that the Ministry of Transport should investigate and present an assessment of possible pilot projects for private financing, construction and operation of road projects. An investigation on this subject is scheduled to start in May this year. In this way, what has happened before is now expanded after Stortingen's leadership. With regard to other competitive conditions between private activities and the State Road Administration, the Council of State cannot point out that it has a different scale than it has previously had. We've been involved in a development in this area. And as I mentioned in my first answer, we'll come up with a clarification when the Consultant's recommendation and review are available.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1778	I would like to thank the Council of State for both this and the previous answer. I have registered that Vegvesen has problems in obtaining investment funds. This means that the engine park seems to be something aging, and far older than what is generally seen in the private contractor business. I fear that this could tear the foundation away from an effective operation under the direction of the Road Administration. How, then, does the Council of State view the possibility of ensuring that the Road Administration's machinery park is such that, to the extent that it is put up for real competition, the Road Authority is able to compete on an equal footing? The background to the question is then relevant and timely equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1787	This is a big and comprehensive matter. It's in principle, and it's been discussed quite many times in this room. I fully agree that if the State Road Service is to be able to compete in the same way as the private sector, they must have a machine park that is able to meet the challenges and tasks facing them, and not end up with material. It again requires investment, maintenance and follow-up. I feel today that the natural time to come back with further investigation on this will be in connection with the state budget for 2000, and I will then signal that I will come back to the questions raised by Kristoffersen in this connection.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1797	This question, from the representative Jan Johnsen to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1800	I have the following questions for the Minister of Social Affairs: ‘In the context of alcohol legislation, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has now adopted a regulation laying down guidelines for the conduct of a knowledge test, inter alia, in order to obtain a grant. Will the Council of State ensure that persons with diplomas such as cook/servite or persons with degrees from Norwegian high school hotels, the study in the Hotelladministeriet, are exempted from this test?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1809	The new regulation specifies that in an establishment authorised for the sale or donation of alcoholic beverages, directors and alternates must take knowledge tests. A passing test meets the requirements of the alcohol law that the administrator and alternate must have documented knowledge of the law and regulations given in accordance with it. During the consultation round on the documentation requirement, the hearing bodies expressed their opinion, inter alia: action should be taken to increase the level of knowledge. It was pointed out that such a requirement is in line with a social development which is aimed at making professional requirements for the exercise of a wide range of professions and that the exercise of authorisation under the alcohol law should not be an exception. Some also considered the proposal appropriate in view of the aim of contributing to the most serious industry. Some municipalities stated that they need to spend a lot of time clarifying with the grant holder because of the alleged lack of knowledge of the legislation. The purpose of this provision is to prevent infringements of the alcohol law, and it is very important that the documentation requirement is addressed to the administrator and deputy responsible for the effective, day-to-day exercise of the authorisation. In addition, the knowledge testing regulation has been designed to give the granting authority the freedom to organise the scheme appropriately according to local circumstances, while emphasising that the knowledge requirements become the same formally and effectively throughout the country. I am aware that there are several types of education in which the alcohol law is included as part of the syllabus, for example by: letter as a cook/servitary, degree from Norwegian high school hotel, study in Hotelladministeriet. The syllabus requirements related to different curricula were therefore assessed in the context of the establishment of a knowledge-testing system. The review showed that the requirements were very diverse in substance. The Ministry is difficult to control the different pension requirements, and it is therefore very difficult to distinguish types of education that may grant exemption. It is also known that different courses are being set up as a result of the new requirement in the law. An exemption from the regulation would raise difficult demarcation questions about the relationship between different training provision. The Ministry believes that the knowledge test now being established ensures certain common minimum knowledge of the alcohol law and that passing a good test will ensure that all concerned have the same basic knowledge. Many of the candidates may have a background of different education where the alcohol law has been introduced as part of it, but they may need to renew their knowledge. In this respect, I show that the law was revised with effect from 1 January this year. Others will have more recent knowledge of relevant legislation. Such knowledge may have acquired, or may be acquired, differently. In these cases, I would assume that the taking of the knowledge test will not be perceived as particularly resource-intensive or burdensome. On this basis, the Ministry will not propose any concrete exemption from the obligation to make an examination.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1822	I thank you for the answer, which I, of course, do not agree with. I find the answer pointless, to say it very simple. Does the State Council consider that a separate knowledge test in the alcohol law — which is initially intended for those who have never had training in the industry — must also be carried out by professionals after four years of school and business training — and, where appropriate, higher education — in this field? Does this reflect respect for the knowledge and competence of these professionals? The councils said there was different training. We have one law-enforcement training in getting a letter in this country, and so do we at Norwegian hotel high school. It is pointless – I'm sorry, President – that these people have to go to a test. Does the Council of State not see the ‘insensible’ with this scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1831	The representative Johnsen uses very strong words about the assessment that the ministry has made. I think there's a perfectly legitimate question that's being asked. What I was trying to say in my answer was that the ministry has actually made the assessment requested by the representative Johnsen in his question, and found that for reasons of the limitations and the questions that might arise in the wake of such an exemption, this test should apply to all. Nor is it unusual for one to confirm one’s knowledge in some areas even if one has had it for a while. It is also the case that legislation and legislation are changing, and for that reason it would also make sense for everyone to take a test. But it will be a little burdensome for those who already have the knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1840	I thank you again for the answer – but it is therefore pointless in my opinion. And it becomes extra meaningless when it's the department itself that develops the profession at school level. If the Ministry considers that there is not a sufficient profession in this field, they should contribute to the four-year training. I still believe that it is pointless for those who take training in the profession to have to go to an extra exam after they have taken a professional test, possibly a university examination. I want to ask the State Council to frame other disciplines that have the same requirement in order to get out and practice the subject in which they are specialists after going out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1847	I note that we agree that this is a relevant issue, but that we disagree with the assessment that has been made. What I want to say is that I want to bring the representative Johnsen's views to the social minister's knowledge. What has been the Ministry's assessment is that it is in itself a point to establish a common standard, a common test, for all those who are to practice this important authority as it is to be a donor. And I think that for the follow-up to the gift rules in the alcohol law, and for the practice of this in the municipalities, it would be very helpful that you can actually build on the fact that absolutely everyone who has this responsibility has the same competence, so that you don't have to evaluate it in relation to the development of the curriculum in different disciplines.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1857	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘A loss of revenue of approx. One hundred million. This means that hospitals will not be able to carry out their planned patient treatment for the rest of 1999, leading to fewer treated patients. How will the Council of State cover that loss of income of approx. One hundred million. in respect of which the department has reduced the outpatient rates from 1 April 1999 the amount of the costs borne by the hospitals.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1866	Reimbursements by the State for outpatient activities are intended to cover around 50 pst. expenditure by hospitals on this activity. The other expenditure is covered by the framework financing. In line with medical and technological developments, tariffs will need to be adjusted over time, in addition to the need to introduce new tariffs. In outpatient settings, there has been a raging development, not least by the fact that a number of disorders can be treated today without the patient being admitted. The scheme is budget-driven. Larger bets are presented to the Stortinget in the budget proposal. In 1999, funds have been allocated to outpatient clinics in the form of a multi-disciplinary back-treatment initiative, and funds have been transferred from the cancer plan to a separate rate for outpatient cancer treatment. The size of each tariff is determined by the Ministry. The Ministry is associated with a reference group of professionals in which all medical specialities are represented. The group advises the Ministry on tariff issues. Adjustments to tariffs and minor changes within existing budgetary frameworks shall be made by the Ministry. There have been some significant changes in outpatient rates in the past. In 1989 there was a substantial increase in outpatient rates as part of a major conversion. Outlays on public outpatient clinics increased considerably, and in subsequent years tariffs had to be reduced. In 1997, there was a significant increase in the reimbursement of outpatient clinics. This resulted in a sharp upsurge in most tariffs as well as the introduction of a number of new ones. From 1997 payments increased by 27 p.m., or at the lower end of 600 million. kr, compared to the previous year. The proportion of patients in medical care increased by 7 pst. 1999 onwards. In the case of outpatient clinics, this is approximately 35 million. kr in increased income. It has not been assumed that these revenues are due to hospitals, and it is therefore also necessary for this reason to reduce the tariffs. In St. prp. No 1 for 1998-99 states: ‘There is considerable uncertainty about the total expenditure under this’ — reimbursement of outpatient hospital activities — ‘the item. The Ministry will consider any tariff adjustment when the numerical basis provides a basis for this.’ In 1998, the growth in outpatient activity was higher than expected, resulting in an increase of 81 million. kr in relation to the budget. The Ministry expects this high activity to continue in 1999. Therefore, in the interests of budgetary management, it is necessary to adjust tariffs slightly more than the amount corresponding to the increased medical excess. For hospitals, the rate applied from 1 April implies a reduced income of more than 30 million. kr in relation to the revenue they would have had at the same rates as in 1998. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is working to improve the prediction of outpatient activities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1886	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. The main problem in Norwegian healthcare today is a lack of capacity. It is, for me, a paradox when the outpatient activity in 1998 has been greater than expected, but still wanted to be punished by the Stortinge, now in 1999, precisely because the capacity increased in 1998. This problem would not have arisen if the Progress Party had been made aware of the fact that all budget allocations to health services should be estimates. The Health Minister is now trying to create a budget balance in 1999 by reducing hospital revenues on the basis of exceedances in 1998. This finds the Progress Party completely unacceptable. Will the Minister of Health, when presenting the revised national budget, propose the collection of these millions of kroner for outpatient treatment at the public hospital outpatient clinics, so that outpatient clinics can maintain their capacity for the whole of 1999?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1895	The adjustment of tariffs has not been made to create a budgetary balance, but to comply with the budget decisions of the Grand Duchy in respect of out-of-patient rates. I would like to criticise the exercise of political discretion, but formally I have done what was right in this case, namely to adjust the map to the terrain, so that what is a budgetary system can actually be observed in 1999. So, of course, it's up to the Storting to consider whether it should be done differently. In the context of the revised national budget, the Stortinget will be given an account of developments in hospital financing, where there is a possibility to see these issues in context. That is all I can say about the revised national budget at this time. But let me stress that this is an adjustment that I have announced in the budget proposal could be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1902	I thank you again for your answer, but the Council of State and the Department should be aware of the exceedances that existed in 1998 when the 1999 budget was presented. Today, there is a broad consensus in the Storting that hospitals need to receive predictable funding so that they can plan and target the activity for the entire operating term at once. In addition to these millions now reduced in outpatient income, a significant reduction in DRG income has now been suggested by several counties. This, together with too many hospitals, will make it difficult to operate, with reduced treatment capacity as a result. Is this in line with the current government's programme conference that this government should invest in health care?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1907	Let me first say that in the budget proposal we announced that it could be relevant to adjust the tariffs, and that there was a great deal of uncertainty about the allocation. It was also repeated in a regrouping proposition, St.prp. No 18 for 1998-99, where this was pointed out. I fully agree with Mr Alvheim that the governance tool in this area should be improved, and we are working on that, so that we can predict developments in the past. I also agree that if this had been an estimate, we would not have had this problem. Then the representative Alvheim raises a completely different question about the practice of input-driven financing. There is a professional dialogue with individual counties in relation to what is a real increase in activity in what has been carried out by the counties in 1998. It's part of the system that you have a bill in 1998 around these leaders, and it's a dialogue with the county councils about it. I would also like to inform the Stortinget in the revised national budget about this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1935	These questions are put to the vote. Questions 25 and 26 have already been answered. We're going back to question 15.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1945	This question, from the representative Signe Øye to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1948	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The Post Office in the municipality of Aremark is closed and they now have only one post office. The municipality has been informed by Posten Norge BA that it has been decided that the post offices should not participate in the prior voting at the municipal elections. Does the Council of State consider that the inhabitants of Aremark have the same right to vote in advance in the autumn elections as the other inhabitants of the county?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1957	The question of opening voice reception at post-branches was considered in the context of the introduction of the postal voice reform in 1997. At that time the Ministry did not find it appropriate to introduce such prior consultation. All the hearing bodies joined the Ministry's proposal. So did Storting's Control Committee in the Inner East. O. No 32 for 1996-97. Thus, the legislation in force provides that there is no access to pre-selection voting at post-departments. This is not something the Post has decided on its own. In this session, the Ministry has promoted a motion for a resolution on changes in the electoral law. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee asked in its position for this – Innst. O. No 61 for 1998-99 — The Ministry initiates an inquiry by the Electoral Commission into the question of prior voting at post offices, including an assessment of the consequences of allowing such prior voting. The background for this was precisely the situation in the municipality of Aremark. I agree with the Committee that this issue needs to be further assessed by the Committee on Election Law. The Ministry will contact the sample and recommend that it investigate the question of pre-senting at post offices. In addition, the Ministry has already been in contact with the Post Office to discuss what measures can be put in place under existing legislation to provide citizens with, inter alia, information. Aremark better opportunities to vote in the year's elections. One option is to extend the timing of institutional voting, so that non-institutional residents also have a real opportunity to vote in advance. Another option is to extend the country postal route one day or two in the evening, so that voters who are not normally associated with a country postal route also receive such an offer. I would also like to stress that although the restructuring of the Posten branch network has resulted in Aremark municipality no longer having a post office in the municipality where they can vote in advance, they still have the opportunity to vote in advance as they can vote at any other post office in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1972	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is clear that I know that the Election Law Committee is now going to deal with this matter and will probably also come up with a proposal to solve the problem. The Council of State must agree that this is not good enough now. We're both concerned that we should have a local democracy, that we should make it easy for the citizens to participate and give their vote this time in the county and municipal elections. Then it cannot be as the Council of State says, that the inhabitants of Aremark can only travel to another post office in the country and vote with blank lists – because that is what happens then. They won't be able to use their ability to cumulate and delete, which is very common in a municipal election, where we know that personal choice is important. The government can't believe it's a good enough offer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1981	No, that's not a good enough offer, of course. I just wanted to take this opportunity to draw attention to the fact that there was also that possibility. However, in order to ensure optimum access to voting, the Ministry has therefore been in contact with the Post Office to discuss the various measures that can be taken, among other things. in the municipality of Aremark. There are a few municipalities that are in the same situation, so we intend to try to solve this within the current legislation at the time of the year's election.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1986	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I hope that the Council of State will also take the initiative in relation to the municipality of Aremark and the other two municipalities concerned, because it should not be a very big problem in principle, as it concerns some small municipalities. It is clear that both extending the country postal routes and keeping open at the institutions for perhaps a little longer — one night or one day a week — will enable this to be resolved. What I'm afraid is that the people who have dropped their post office are hurt, and we can't do it so that they feel like they're going to be some sort of second-rate voters at the municipal and county elections. Therefore, I encourage the Council of State to contact these three municipalities and find a solution that is acceptable to all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e1993	This issue applies to three municipalities known to the department so far: Aremark, Bokn and Ramnes. In addition, one or two other municipalities may be affected by the same. The Ministry is, as I said in my first answer, now in contact with the Post Office to get solutions. To get this done with the Post is the first thing we have to do. Which would be most appropriate, if the Department or Posten informs the municipalities concerned, we will get back to them. But at least we have to make sure that the municipalities are informed about what kind of opportunities exist, so that you can find good solutions to this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e2003	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘From the previous Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, the undersigned has been informed in writing that the Ministry will draw up a separate information brochure on the winding-up rules in the Housing Lease Regulations Act and the possibility of housing aid and other support schemes. Such information is urgent for each tenant as there is considerable uncertainty about future rentals, particularly among the elderly. Can the Council of State promise such information to each individual and to what time?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e2012	The Ministry has begun to plan the preparation of information material prior to the entry into force of the new House Rental Act from 1 January 2000. Newspaper advertisements, information brochures and information booklets will be developed. The information material will specify: 1. the main points of the new House Rental Act and what will be the main changes to the current law2. the winding-up of the house lease regulation law, more specifically on the annual adjustment of the lease during the transitional period of 10 years and the consequences of the suspension3. the right of individual tenants to receive housing support, where appropriate, other support, where the rental becomes high; The purpose of the information work will be to reach as many as possible, both landlords, tenants and others affected by the regulatory changes. Newspaper ads will reach most, but here the amount of information will be limited. The amount of information will be greater in brochures and, in particular, in an information booklet — which will also reach many. Unfortunately, it is not possible to reach everyone with a separate information brochure, as there is no record of who is renting a living room. At this stage, it is not possible to determine when the information material will come out. But I can promise the representative Gaundal that this work will be highly prioritised in the department, and that the material will come out in good time before the new law will apply.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e2033	I thank the Council of State for the answer. When we from the Workers' Party have stressed this information, it is with a background in two aspects of the case. Some older people are alarmed and need to know what the transition itself will mean in the context of the abolition of regulation for each individual. Another thing is that, in our opinion, the owners of the house have not acted well enough. When we dealt with the law, we were made aware that a year ago written material had been sent to some tenants from the farms. They were then told that there would be no transitional arrangements, and also that the rent would be very high. It's to get rid of disinformation and get concrete information we're a little bit concerned with this question. When the Council of State says that it is difficult to reach out to each one, I would like to ask, how does a partner plan to cooperate with Oslo and Trondheim? They're the ones that are mostly affected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e2042	I must admit, unfortunately, that I am not prepared to go into detail on how to cope with the situation in Oslo and Trondheim. But I see it in the same way as the representative, Mr Gaundal, that there we are facing particularly major challenges. I understand the concerns of some tenants about the conversion that comes here. And of course, the fact that the ministry is now giving work to get the information material out as quickly as possible, high priority, is an expression of taking this seriously. In the combination of measures with both newspaper and brochures and information material, we aim to achieve as many as possible. But it will of course never be guaranteed to reach out to all the tenants.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e2054	Once again, I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I don't think there's any disagreement between us that there's a need for information. But when you want to inform a group of people who are starting to get a little bit up in the years, and who are also afraid and perhaps misinformed, the information should be simple and easy to understand. In particular, they need to be given specific information on where to turn if the rent is too high and thus have rights, for example. in relation to housing aid. In the certainty that the Council of State will do what he has said, I think this will be all right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e2063	In short, I would like to take with me the views that the representative Gaundal is now expressing. Of course, it is also a goal for the ministry to produce this material as easily as possible. At the same time, there is a law to be described, and to some extent, this will appear to many to be complicated. But of course it's a goal to make it as simple as it can be done at all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e2068	That leaves the question mark.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-28.ana.ud738e2077	There is no Unit.
