ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e26	The size is currently addressing one of the most important issues of the spring session and, at least, until today, whether or not the Upper Otta watercourse is to be expanded. The Ministry of Oil and Energy presents in the Communication the Government’s refusal to apply for the extension of the Upper Otta Watercourse in the Municipality of Skåk in Oppland. The application was rejected and the applicants have requested the rejection of the decision before the Storting for examination and final decision. Upper Otta was associated with the treatment of St.meld. No 60 for 1991-92 on the Total Plan located in category I, as inter alia: means the possibility of seeking out the watercourse, albeit without automatic consent as a result. On this basis, the Uplandskraft, Tafjord Kraft AS and Glommens and Laagen Brukseier Association sought in January 1996 on the concession for the construction and operation of the Glitra and Øyberget power plants and to transfer several watercourses in the Upper Otta to the existing regulation magazines in the Breitalsvatnet and the Rauddalsvatnet. The Upland force team manages the planning and possible expansion and operation of the facilities. In addition to the installations themselves, built transmission lines are assumed between Glitra, Øyberget and Vågåmo respectively, and the second line between Øyberget and Skåk I power plants. The proposed plan will provide a power production of approx. 1 TWh per years, have a cost framework of around SEK 2 billion and a construction time estimated at between three and four years. Watercourse expansions have traditionally created a high level of commitment, both among trailers and opponents. Upper Otta is in this way no exception. Not least, the community of Skåk has split into two camps, rejecting the claim that the conflict is primarily a city-land conflict. However, the local government has recommended extension, while the neighbouring municipalities of Lom and Wagå have turned the thumb down. However, the exposure is further anchored than one local issue. Across the whole country, individuals and organisations have stood up, primarily for the benefit of the protection interests. This underpins the perception of our rivers and our falls as a national inheritance with national administrative responsibility. Watercourse development has also always brought opportunities and challenges, but also disadvantages for communities and districts. Increased employment, hope of population growth, the headshot of new industrial activities and, above all, the economic benefit of many districts, can all be positive effects in the wake of an expansion. So it's not hard to understand that many, but not all, want the project in Upper Otta realized. Nevertheless, we must not forget the responsibility of managing our natural resources in a long-term perspective, where the needs of future generations and the right to choose themselves must be met, and that the value of experience that lies in our nature, which is unique, must be taken care of for future generations. At the opposite end of the positive elements of a watercourse expansion, we find the many and significant negative elements. Not immaterial interventions in nature, partly or completely dried rivers and waterfalls, shattering installations in the landscape, degradation of hunting, fishing and recreation opportunities are all examples of regrettable impacts of this type of development. Despite the possibilities in Skåk for the possible expansion of Upper Otta, it is necessary to underline the fact that the main motive for watercourse development has always been and still needs to be considered and the need for electricity. An extension of a river or a waterfall must be assessed by the amount of force generated, measured against e.g. needs, scale of natural interference and economic profitability. It is difficult to see that the expansion of Upper Otta provides sufficient strength to defend itself in relation to the natural consequences that follow, while at the same time providing a highly uncertain financial profitability in the project. Any reduced deployment is likely to reinforce this uncertainty. However, this is up to the builders to assess themselves, and is therefore beyond what the Stortinget is invited to clarify today. Norway consumes more electricity per year. Inhabitants than most other countries. We are also exceptionally well located on a price basis. In parallel with increasing prosperity, technological development and personal purchasing power, the use of electricity has increased. The context is hardly questionable, the growth and consumption of electricity are closely linked. Based on available forecasts, electricity consumption in Norway is also expected to increase considerably over the next 15-20 years. In my opinion, any expansion of the Upper Otta watercourse generates too little force for it to make a significant contribution to meeting future power needs. Estimates show that the potential will represent only a few months of growth in consumption, a potential which, of course, will be further weakened by any reduction in development. It is therefore difficult to understand how logically one can defend an extension with such a small gain as in this case. Norway has been and is well used to access enough clean energy. Our rich watercourse resources have always put us in a favored situation, which most people envy us. However, the time has passed when water was regarded as an unlimited resource for unimpeded exploitation. The growth society has led us into a situation where consumption is greater than our productive capacity, a gap that will grow more and more in time to come. It will be that the growth in electricity consumption cannot continue as we have seen it to this day. And although we recognize that in the coming years we will have to import force, it must be actively working to slow down growth and in the long term stabilise consumption at a lower level than today. Building out Upper Otta is not an answer to today's and tomorrow's challenges, which require the will and ability to create the predictions and not slavely comply with them. Recognising this requires an energy policy change that takes more account of environmental challenges and associated obligations and at the same time sees alternatives to today's energy carriers. The government takes these challenges seriously. Through the energy message that was presented in the spring, the government is showing the will to think new and forward in energy context. In the strong focus on the further development and use of alternative energy carriers, energy saving measures, measures for increased use of waterborne heat, etc. invites the Government of Stortinget to carry out a necessary reverse operation to ensure, in the long term, a sound consumption and a sound extraction of available resources. A new time requires new answers. The deficit in electricity in recent years shows the vulnerability of our hydropower supply system. It also shows how necessary it is that we seek to bring the growth under control and preferably reduce the actual consumption. Everyone agrees that imports of power produced in less environmentally friendly ways than the Norwegian hydropower are not a lucky situation. However, expanding Upper Otta will not make us significantly less dependent on imports. It doesn't solve any problems and doesn't provide the answers that we need to meet today's and tomorrow's challenges. The Upper Otta Watercourse represents a unique river and trunk landscape. It's at the same time one of our last high mountain streams, which implies that it's important that the area is not further degraded. Future generations must not be deprived of the possibility of valuable experience and recreation through interventions that can never be altered or returned to the original. Any extension decision today is difficult to see other than a response to a short period of time without self-sufficiency, which requires long-term strategies for the establishment of a future-oriented and environmentally-adapted energy policy. To date, there has been a great deal of tension in the outcome of today's debate. However, it seems that this tension has now been triggered after a clarification that has taken place in the Right. What is certain, however, is that concession applicants will not have the consent of Stortingen to expand in line with the application. If the Stortinget were to make an extension decision, we are talking about a significantly reduced project. The decision of the Workers' Party means half of the original proposal. Signals given by the builders were initially highly reprehensible, but have in retrospect nevertheless opened up to a reduced, but altered, expansion. Of course, the concession applicants themselves consider the appropriateness of such a project in the event of the Storting granting the necessary powers today, based on economic considerations. Finally, the Centre Parties will follow up the Government’s recommendation not to extend the Upper Otta.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e72	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e75	A little comment on the Christian People's Party's growing effort, which in the past seemed fantastic, and so it also sounded in the last article in relation to what has been said about the Workers' Party. The fact is that the Government Parties, together with the Right and the Advance Party, reduced the increase rate by 22 million. kr for the 1999 budget. The working party here proposed to allocate 4 million. kr more than the civil parties. Now, in the revised national budget, the Government is proposing a further cut in an increase of 70 million. kr. So I recommend the Christian People's Party to take responsibility for their own actions before they attack the Workers' Party. So for power development. As we have now heard, the government wants no expansion of the Upper Otta watercourse. The government parties say no to the Workers' Party's proposal for a reduced extension of approx. 540 GWh, which implies minimal interference in nature. In the Energy Communication submitted for 1998-99, the Council of State writes that it will go in to make all future hydroelectric expansions as gentle as possible. Does the Government’s no-half expansion in Upper Otta really mean that the government parties have rejected any future expansion of hydropower? And how will the Christian People's Party, as a government party, explain the statement of future gentle force development when one in the Government already says no to the most gentle, natural expansion of history, namely the expansion proposal that the Workers' Party has now presented?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e82	It is interesting to record how the Workers' Party of the Grades characterises Upper Otta as a positive contribution to environmental policy. Our assessment is that when we say no to Upper Otta, it's primarily based on the reason that it generates too little force compared to the interventions that must be done in nature up there. I want to turn the problem around a little bit. When the Workers' Party wants to build gas power plants as a solution to the problems, and even wants to lower the threshold for environmental requirements for them, my question is: why in the world is it a point to bring a small tail of half a TWh into that process? Why is it not then a clear strategy on the part of the Workers' Party to allow gas power stations to solve the whole problem? But you have to bring this with you. I see the consequence of the Labour Party's decision today in such a way that it must necessarily trigger new hydroelectric developments, new small developments. And it's going to be very exciting to see which watercourse in Norway is going to be the next Workers' Party that wants to expand with marginal effects in response to a much greater need, as the forecasts point out. Finally, I would also like to point out, when the Workers' Party concentrates on the growth measures for the Government, that it has actually invested 5 billion kroner over a decade, which is to ensure that we get more into alternative energy carriers than we have access to today. I challenge the Workers' Party to be part of this big effort that we have never had.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e91	The representative of the Christian People's Party pointed out that this was one of the most important things in the spring. Yes, it's perhaps one of the most important things in ours for this hall, but for the district from which I come, this is the most important thing for many, many years to come. The decision today is actually the future of a large district in Gudbrandsdalen. There are jobs and money in the municipal fund, so that the municipality can have an old-age home and expand schools. Then the representative from the Christian People's Party says that the gain is too small. That is when I want to ask the representative whether it is this room that will decide whether it is too small, or whether it is the local population – the local environment – that will decide whether this is enough, or whether it is too small. And when did the Christian People's Party and the Centre parties begin to override local democracy? The representative of the Christian People's Party also says that the people of the future will have this area in peace without any expansion. Yeah, that sounds good. But what has he thought that those who live there should have to live off? How are they to secure their future? Will the Christian People's Party have this as a natural pearl in the future without it going to live there, without it being a living building, without it being human beings to see there? Is that the future of the Christian People's Party for Uppland?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e100	The representative Nistad expresses incredibly little faith in what his local population is capable of exploiting, when he bases the whole development of society in the region on whether they get an extension based on 0.5 TWh. If that's the future of Skåk, yes, then we have a big challenge to tackle, but with other means than expanding. Nistad points to local democracy. That's what many people have done. And I have to ask the question: is it really the way to understand that Nistad wants to take watercourse expansions out of the hands of the Storting, the Government and the Department and make it a municipal government matter? Do you have the relationship with Norwegian rivers and streams that it is only a municipal matter? That must be what that means. In our opinion, the major rivers and watercourses represent national values with national administrative responsibilities. And then it's actually not that the signals coming from the area where Nistad has its background are unique, either in Skåk. The community is divided. Most of them are correct, but in the neighbouring municipalities of Lom and Wågå they definitely turn the thumb down. So I don't know what is defined as local democracy in Nistad vocabulary. In fact, we believe that in relation to the challenges we face in the power sector over a new millennium, 0.5 TWh is a relatively modest contribution to the significant natural interventions that will also result in limited development.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e109	The representative, Brother Ynge Rahm, among others: mentioned the need to invest in alternative energy sources. And we'll do that. There is a broad consensus on this in the Committee. In the case of heat pumps, we have approx. 22000, and these heat pumps generate 4,5 TWh annually from a heating demand of 52 TWh. In the case of windmills, the direct injection from the Norwegian State will take place at approx. 2 pst. be of approx. DKK 2.5 billion. In Denmark they made the animal-purchased experience that, first of all, the companies were bankrupt, second, they were wasted with public funds and, thirdly, destroyed the large environment. So they've learned a lot in Denmark about what they shouldn't do. And that's why they're starting to get these windmills out on the sea. The NVE also states that, in terms of volume, alternative energy sources will still make a relatively modest contribution. And I can only mention that in the case of bioenergy, which is probably 4-5 TWh, is approximately. half covered by refuelling. But what I reacted to during Ramm's posts was that there was too little of this power plant that was applied for up in Upper Otta – too little! So my question is: how much does Brother Ynge Rahm and the Christian People's Party want the power plants to be through hydropower expansion in order for the Christian People's Party to be involved in this power demand? How much do they want to build? Now we're looking for 1 TWh, it's probably going to be 0.5 TWh. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e120	If there's something I always enjoy in a debate, it's that Jan Johnsen's posts should come, because it creates a little temperature in any debate that may initially seem relatively dry and boring. I've said, and the government has said that, and we have that in mind, it generates too little power compared to the costs that the natural interventions represent. We said the same thing in relation to the application that was made by the concessionaire for full development. It is not in a reasonable relationship with each other, nor is it in relation to the enormous needs we have in the power sector in the future. To the representative Jan Johnsen's information, in fact, the predictions we have to deal with in the future are facing quite different challenges than the question of building out half a TWh in Upper Otta. So it's not about building us out of consumption, but it's a matter of reducing the growth in consumption. In my opinion, there is the main challenge for Kraft-Norway in the future. And it's not being cared for as the majority now wants us to do, namely, by adopting an extension of the Upper Eight. It is true that 22,000 heat pumps in Norway generate 4-5 TWh. In Sweden, there are 300,000 heat pumps and have had good experience with them, because they have had a political will to invest in them. The government invites Stortinget to do the reverse operation that can lead us to a completely different path in energy policy Norway than we have had up to today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e132	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e135	At the beginning of the 1990s, it was an accepted view that Norway had a surplus of power in the Norwegian hydropower system, and that in a normal year at least we should be self-sufficient in power. The development of energy consumption in recent years has led to an increasing energy deficit which must be covered by imports, largely with polluting Danish coal power. Instead of exploiting Norway’s high potential for renewable, clean hydropower production and relatively environmentally friendly gas power, we choose to import Danish coal power. The government is the main spokesman for this strategy. In the Energy Communication, it even recommends that we increase this import. The government simply does not want to use Norway’s large and undissolved watercourse and gas resources for power generation. The same government has had a high level of cigaretteing on climate issues and underlined our own national responsibility for reducing climate emissions. This is double morality. If Norway and the world are to solve their energy and environmental problems, we cannot exclude our most environmentally friendly energy sources. Norway is currently a net importer of electricity and the import demand is increasing. Even with energy savings, we have to expect demand to rise in the coming years. Hydropower is a clean, renewable energy source. I remember that the Stortinget in the treatment of the overall plan and Verneplan IV in 1993 said a loud yes to the continued gentle development of hydropower. At the same time, the most valuable environmental watercourses were protected. The review of the overall plan led to the release of the lower part of the Upper Otta watercourse for concession treatment in line with the current application for the Glitra-Øyberget project. At the same time, Stortinget decided to protect two thirds of Upper Otta. Two thirds are already protected. Nevertheless, it seems that a majority will protect even more. That's the last remainder of the watercourse we're discussing today. Me and the majority of the Right Magnifying Group place great emphasis on the fact that the Upper Eight Project is a further development of a hydropower system over 50 years old. The project does not require the extension of existing magazine. The project does not require the suppression of new sites. The largest natural interventions were carried out 50 years ago. This is the best possible use of existing investments. With minimal natural interventions, we can get a billion, or a thousand million, kWh. We're talking about a significant amount of power. This is about a large and environmentally friendly resource to which the Norwegian and international community should not be able to afford to say no. But it is only when the so-called superfluous society is confronted with harsh energy and environmental policy realities that this becomes obvious to most people. The Nord-Gudbrandsdalen is a nutrient-poor region. Over many years, the region has been subject to significant loads due to extensive protective plans. The resolution of Hjerkinn shooting grounds, with the consequences it has for the defence activities in the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen, further contributes to the weakening of the regional nutrient base. The development of Upper Otta will bring significant benefits to the community and regional business. In addition to the tax receipts and jobs related to the project itself, the development of power can create major ring-fences for regional industrial development in the Upper Gudbrandsdalen. We know that there is massive local support for expansion. Once an area has been cleared for concessional treatment, I think we should listen to local advice. There are both advantages and disadvantages related to the project under consideration. In my opinion, an overall assessment, which balances increased power generation and local interests against the natural interventions, speaks clearly for development. I point out that after an overall assessment, a large majority in the Höres Storingsgruppe supports the development of Glitra-Øyberget at about 700 GWh. This means that the north transmission is omitted, so that the rivers Tora, Føysa and Vulu are removed from the project. Otherwise, the project will be carried out in line with the NVE recommendation. I'm addressing my suggestion, which is referenced in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e164	Jan Johnsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e169	So far in the debate, the key point has been that electricity consumption growth is much higher than the growth of power generation. As far as this is concerned, the representative concerns the concept of energy savings in his comments. I presume that, too, Mr. Johnsen is concerned with the need to reduce electricity consumption while increasing power generation. Since the growth of consumption mainly occurs in private consumption, there is a need for action here. But such investments are expensive. For example, domestic heat pump technology is so expensive that only a few can afford it. Again, if the right is concerned with reducing electricity consumption, what measures on the one hand the representative Johnsen sees that the right will propose, e.g. in relation to the treatment of next year's government budget?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e178	The right has already made proposals for energy savings, including: in the case of heat pumps. We have great faith in heat pumps. It is not quite right, as the representative Folkvord said, that it does not pay for private households to start using heat pumps. It pays off very well, if only the installation comes at the time the house is built. The right has taken an offensive position in the committee and it can be confirmed by the members of the committee. So the question of whether the Right is not concerned with energy savings is therefore wrong. We have already made proposals for action in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e185	Jan Johnsen made one of today's most uncritical posts for expansion, almost some kind of hallelujah contribution for the blessing of power development. I wonder that this may be in line with what should be the Right Idea. Jan Petersen has said several times that he wants to create a future impression that the Right is also an environmental party, a party that takes serious care of nature. When are we going to start seeing this new right? When do we see a Right where taking care of pristine nature, actually is a fundamental value? If we're going to have some idea-historical debate: isn't taking care of pristine nature actually the most conservative of all ideas? What in the world is conservatism and value conservatism if it's not taking care of the environment and being careful about dramatic natural interventions? Now it's not in my mind to define what conservatism is. That'll get others to take care of. But do the Right have any values besides making money? Isn't taking care of one of the most beautiful things in Norwegian nature something that should be a very central and fundamental conservative value? Does it seem to the Right in a way to raise a chin up and show some principles, some basic attitudes, not just when it comes to what always gives heads in the cash register?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e192	When the representative Johnsen is not in Stortinget, he actually lives by nature through the industry he is connected to, as opposed to the representative Solheim. I must say that Johnsen is concerned that it is produced instead of that it is protested! That's a little bit of the difference between Solheim and me. It was perhaps an idea that Solheim's representative in the future was more involved in production. I think seriously that a community that wants to use its resources should be allowed to do so, including from SV. But I record – once again – the exasperation that SV has against anyone earning a crown and living in their community. They must not do that for God’s sake – they must move to the city, for it is where everyone should live. And then we should drive out of town on Sunday and look at the foxes with Solheim!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e197	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e200	There's a big fight about Upper Otta, and it has to be when the different interests – in isolation – have good arguments to lead in the field. It is the debt of the Municipality of Skåk, which can demonstrate that an expansion will bring revenue to the community. And it applies to the extent that Upland power, which is right in this case, can trigger a lot of force, but compared to many previous projects where there has been very great interference. At the same time, the extent and consequences of natural interventions are well documented, and they are largely uncontradicted. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has such a strong position, and it is well known that the Ministry of Nature and the Environment must be given greater weight. The damage and disadvantages to the public interest will be greater than the benefits of regulation and expansion. The position has been strongly supported by the Committee, not only by the representatives of the Government Party and the SV, but also by members of the Right Group, and the public debate has shown that a refusal to expand Upper Otta also has many members of the Labour Party. The position should win out in Stortinget. The government does not randomly travel to mark its environmental profile, to attract the nature and environmental protection organisations. It may be easy to think so, because much of our policies are conducted on the basis of symbolic matters, more with a view to creating a certain impression than to giving real arguments an impact. It's not like that in this case, fortunately. The Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left plus the representative Sanner builds his comments on the superior principle The Stortinget basically laid down everything in the early 1990s, as they are expressed in messages about regional planning and land policy. It seemed obvious that the expansion of Upper Otta broke with national objectives of conservation of untouched areas. At least, the Storting should have a debate on what should lead to policy being reformed before giving a clear signal, if any, for a contentious development. In this context, I refer to the statements made by the State of Oppland. It is said that the request for a concession raises important issues, both in relation to future protection interests and energy needs. Therefore, my county states that there should be a clarification in Stortinget before the concession is granted. Sure, this is an important point, and it reminds us that the Storting should know the responsibility for its previous target decisions. They're there to be grounded, especially in kinky situations. If necessary, objectives of this type should be changed. But it hasn't happened. In Upper Eighty-Saka, the Government follows up the vision of the Stortinget over the 1990s. Until now, discussions have shown that there is a dissatisfaction between the parties, and also within some parties, about the future energy policy. The case in question illustrates this, and we've been given a warning about what's coming. In general, the interests are concentrated in two camps – one focusing on emerging power and supply crises, the other on consumption habits and lifestyles. While people on the one hand want to produce themselves out of what they define as a power crisis, on the other hand, people on the other hand will remember, as we see in the opinion of the Committee, that the expansion of Upper Eight will, for example, only cover the increase in consumption that occurs over three to four months, as the situation is today. In other words, the focus must be much stronger on better management of our energy resources. For the Central Party, it is easy to select the page here, and so has the Government. The new energy policy message makes it clear, and it is also a new wording that is worth noting: ‘The government’s energy policy is based on the fact that environmental objectives will determine production potential and that it is necessary to pursue an active policy to limit energy consumption.’ This is the choice of the main perspective that plays in St.meld. No 50 will take its position on the construction of Upper Otta. We have flowed with energy, it leads to low prices and high consumption. Or to put it this way: we don't have a shortage of energy, we have an excess of energy. Historically, we are like this in a luxury situation. Transfer cables to the rest of the world make it increasingly possible to compensate for river-poor years. As a result, the supply has been secure. In view of this, a third argument follows, which no one should ignore: The times may change, they may become harder. It speaks for future generations to have an important word in the team when deciding what's left of a power development project.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e227	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e230	It's interesting to welcome the Center Party in the hall today. In the past, the Central Party has been among the parties that have ridden most of the district policy of the Progress Party. Today, therefore, the Central Party, which has always been a champion of the districts, is voting down its own rapporteur, its own voters in the municipality and its own voters in the county. You could almost think it was the Progress Party, but it's the Center Party. One should be aware that many of the Uppland settlements today live usefully on the expansion of hydropower, because it is those who have supplied electricity to Oslo. It could be tempting to pull out that power line, so maybe the hall here would have been darkened today. It has been successful in expanding into Uppland. The most successful area is Hunderfossen. It was just a pond, but it is today one of Norway's most visited tourist areas. It gives jobs, it gives money, and no one today talks about the Hundred Fosses being an incorrect extension. Today there is only flowering and further expansion – the Hafjell area and all the museums that have come around there. So why all of a sudden this revolution from the Center Party? How will they facilitate the conditions for the districts now? Do they just think that there's going to be direct transfers, that you're just going to go get a check in the cash register? Is that how you think society should be in the countryside? What kind of opportunities will the Senter Party give to the towns when they are not allowed to use the possibilities that the towns themselves have today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e237	I am sincerely pleased when I hear that the representative of Thore Aksel Nistad highlights that the Central Party has always been a champion of the districts. It's fun to listen. It is also my opinion, and it will not surprise the representative that I see it this way. But there's a line that we're still on, and when it comes to this case, where it turns out that we're disagreeable, I can show that there's a lot of local discomfort about what's the best choice. It's a fact. Otherwise, I would like to show that when we try to provide an overview, we see clearly that national intervention in local plans is decreasing. Especially after this government started its work, this trend was clear. Now, it's probably pretty much the case that municipalities get a lot more of their money than they did in the past. It's a matter that's been discussed here in Stortinget before, and it's actually a multiple in Stortinget that ended up with this story, so it's the main drawing. The emergence of some conflicts in some cases between national and local levels should not surprise anyone, but, as I said, in this situation there are clearly shared views at local level.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e244	I don't want to blame the representative Dale of the Senterpartiet for not taking the countryside into account, because I know he's burning for that, at least in some towns. We have a built together called Sauda, which we're fighting for both of them, but that's not what we're discussing here right now. What we are discussing here is the municipality of Skåk. And now it's now such that Skåk Municipality and the county agree that this should be expanded, and for Skåk the situation is that it's a relocation municipality. Then my question becomes to the representative John Dale: is it such that untouched natural areas should weigh more heavily than having to settle in their own municipality? Is it so that the Center Party wants to say to the youth in the municipality of Skåk: Sorry, the divorce is going on, you only have to find a place in the city or in another densely built municipality. It must be a difficult message to give to the Center Party. It's so hard to give such a message to any party, but especially the Center Party it has to be very difficult for. Is it true that the Centre Party fully agrees on this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e252	In my introduction, I said that Skåkning in and on its own has a good argument when they point out that a power build will add some extra income to the community. It's a fact. But there will be an up-to-date problem – and it will be very dramatized in addition – if a claim is made that the choice is now between power development or relocation from the municipality of Skåk. I am sure that the representative Jan Johnsen is aware of the discussion that is also taking place locally, and it is also very varied. It's both negative and positively related to the choice that one here makes, so it'll be a very bad character for a built if a power extension case appeared as an alpha and omega for that society's further existence. There is no case in this area. On the contrary, we believe, as others have reminded us, that we have a local population that is fully capable of meeting challenges and being creative in relation to the challenges ahead of them.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e257	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e260	The energy debate at the NHO annual conference last year provided a basis for optimism. More than ever, it was concerned with forward-looking energy policy. It was a widespread will to think completely and to take new hold. The great possibilities resulting from the technological breakthroughs that many said were in store were highlighted. Among other things, the possibilities for a near-carbon-free gas power plant were identified. After the conference, it was registered and commented that Jens Stoltenberg believed that the time had now come for the large hydroelectric power plants. With this in mind, I have been looking forward to the debate today. On the basis of a voluntary and environmentally committed government and an emerging environmental exposure in the Workers' Party, a majority turned the thumb down for the expansion of the Upper Otta. Now we know that Stoltenberg must either have changed its mind or not have made a breakthrough in the Workers' Party, because the epoch of large, conflict-filled hydroelectric power deployments is obviously not over. The working party is in favour of a reduced but extensive extension which will involve significant natural interference. ‘Half expansion is total loss for nature’, called it in a press release from the Swedish Union for the Protection of Nature. It's a cross of thought that a collective Workers' Party votes for half the expansion of Upper Otta when we know that in this hall there would most likely be a majority to protect the watercourse if everyone had voted in accordance with their convictions. This historic opportunity has removed the environmental opposition in the Workers' Party. To this day, it has been uplifting to follow the Right and their debate on Upper Otta. There is a large minority who oppose the development after group treatment. I think there is particular reason to commend Jan Tore Sanner for his commitment and for the generational perspective that characterizes his remarks, which we have to deal with today's case. If this idea is implemented in parts of the Right, they can become a useful co-player for the Environmental Policy Government. I would like to add that it was disappointing that today they chose to stand together and not on what was the views of the individual representative. In many ways, you can say that you did not pass the finish – the water retention won on the rise side. In energy policy, we need new grips. It is not enough to try to serve a consumer growth that has been raised over the debate and which many consider to be natural. It's like running for a bus that keeps increasing speed. It won't be possible to take the bus back until you do something about what's the main problem – speed. Upper Otta expansion cannot cover up for the consumption growth we have – on the contrary, this expansion will help to shift focus away from the necessary grips. Something has to be done with the pricing of energy. We need a breakthrough for alternative energy sources. We need to increase bets on AGAINST, and we need to address these challenges with a weight and a commitment that has so far been missing. In this debate, it has been well documented which qualities are at stake, even if half of them are being developed. There is no need to go further on that side of the case. But this case comes as one of several environmental issues that has been dealt with in Stortinget in the last year, and that shows that we have received a government that takes environmental action. The government is taking steps to protect Upper Otta. It had the environment as a decisive premise when it took its stand in the shooting field case. It has taken the initiative to increase the electricity charge. It has initiated green taxes, and it is doubtful to cut CO2 taxes without this being seen in an overall environmental context. So we have a government that has taken many small and large steps to get a more forward-looking environmental policy. It is an important breakthrough for the environmental movement to have a government that prioritises the environment. Now it is necessary to work to ensure that the bulk of the population can follow the policies that the Government is applying. The debate today has shown that there is still some work to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e277	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e280	The representative Kvassheim says that Upper Otta expansion cannot meet the power needs we need in the future. No, it was just supposed to be missing. But Kvassheim has to agree that it will cover up some of it. It'll cover up what we're building out. I assume that the representative Kvassheim also agrees. It helps something. It doesn't matter if we expand or not expand. If we're going to have that attitude, we don't have to do anything, because then we'll never achieve what Kvassheim thinks is the goal. But that's not what takes me the most. What matters most to me is this with electricity charges and electricity pricing, which goes all the way back to Left's thinking. Now we're going into a municipal election fight. I hope the Left is so honest that they flag high and clear that the Norwegian population can at last possibly expect increased expenditure on electricity, because the Left is now in position. It's been hammering the left about as long as they've been sitting there. It has emerged throughout the budgets and in relation to the revised budget last year. So my question to the representative Kvassheim is then: is it that what this message brings about will go high and clear beyond Norway's country, so that the Norwegian citizens are aware of what they have to expect from the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e289	That's this question Jan Johnsen tends to ask me when we discuss energy policy in the Storting, so it might be tempting to refer to questions and answers in previous debates, but to the pleasure of those present in the Chamber, I can repeat a little of this. The left is of the opinion that before we do anything about the pricing of electricity, we can't deal with what's the main problem: a galloping growth in consumption. We have to get into the situation that saving is worthwhile and that it pays to bet on alternative energy sources. It will be fully possible for most households to save and align themselves so that after a transitional period they do not have significantly higher costs for their energy consumption than they have today, but they will have a more environmentally friendly profile on it, and that would be a useful contribution to a totality, which is the grip we need to address the overall problems. It is right that the expansion of Upper Otta will cover part of the consumption growth we have, but one does not solve the problem just by taking this bit for bit-policy. The gap will be there all the way – yes, it will actually increase. That's why I'm saying that the expansion of Upper Otta can shift the focus away from what's most important, namely the big, overall grips, and then this is one of the determining factors with pricing. I register, inter alia: in a brochure issued by Light Energy, which operates in the representative of Johnsen and my home country, that the responsible now say that we do not get a change of energy policy with more forward-looking energy policy until we do something about the pricing of energy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e300	I am dedicated to producing the following: The representative Kvassheim says that the government has promoted a wide range of environmental proposals for the Storting, and mentions the Upper Otta. He mentions the shooting field case and other matters. Common to all the issues is that the government has lost them. Then the question is, how long can the government sit and lose one important environmental issue after another without saying that the environment is so important that they actually say that this is the limit? We disagree that everything the Government proposes is environmentally friendly. For example, the government didn't go against the shooting field. The government was in favour of the Hierkin shooting field, and the government parties voted against the Workers' Party's proposal on the protection area and National Park at Hjerkinn, because they would rather build a shooting area there than support the majority's proposal on shooting grounds further south, in Hedmark. But the point is not to discuss the issues. The point is to ask the representative Kvassheim if it is such that a government that says that environmental protection is important, can just sit and watch it lose one thing after another, including the Upper Otta case today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e312	The representative of Stoltenberg is right that the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right have made many of the positive environmental proposals of the Government not adopted. When it comes to shooting areas, I would draw attention to the debate that took place at that time, where the environmental movement said it was perhaps the biggest environmental issue of the 1990s, and how strongly dissuaded the solution that the Progress Party and the Workers' Party agreed to. So it's right that you've gotten your thumb into the Storting too many of the suggestions. But in some areas, the government has had a positive impact. This is the case, for example, with regard to part of the proposals on green taxes. You didn't go as far as you wanted, but you got a little bit on the way. I also believe that the government's management of the gas power case has had an impact on the development we have, and it should be exciting to see in the autumn whether the Workers' Party is now willing to set aside the SFT, which should be the environmental control itself, the environmental protection of the concession decisions of the Workers' Party. I'm worried that the bulk of the population is not involved in more of the good environmental practices, but it would be of little use to the environmental movement to leave the government site to the Workers' Party, because what we see is that the government's playoffs characterize the debates in the other parties, and they are involved in moving this in a more environmentally friendly direction. I think, for example, that when the Workers' Party now ends up on half the expansion of Upper Otta, which is better than three quarters, it is because they were met with a replay from the Government as they did.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e321	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e324	Let me first just say a few more words to Kvassheim. It is such that he did not answer the problem at all. At first he had a post in which he said that there were many important, major environmental issues this government had presented, and then mentioned Upper Otta, shooting field, Lofast and many other matters. So I pointed out that after losing all of the things you mentioned that you thought were the most important, you go up and start talking about completely different things, for example. green tax. So there has to be a limit on how long a government can crawl for a large number of cases that it thinks are important. I disagree with you. I believe that the position you have in the shooting field case is incorrect. It is not environmentally friendly to go against protection areas on the Hierkin. I believe that going towards any expansion of Upper Otta is not an environmentally friendly position. I think that is wrong. But my point is not in and of the case debate itself. We can take it for other reasons. My point is that there is some inconsistency between the very high principal profile this government has on the environment, and how indifferent they are to the fact that they lose absolutely all things. Green tax – well, you lost the most important thing there and were required to introduce these quotas as proposed by the Labour Party – no problem for you. You're busy getting through about $1 billion in increased green taxes. Yes, the Labour Party has introduced SEK 15 billion in green taxes through the 1990s, the multiple of the small adjustments you made through green taxes. So you've got completely trivial things, and all the things you think are big, you've lost. It just means that you're obviously not so concerned about the environment that you put it in front of your own taboos. It's okay that the voters have it with them. The debate on hydropower projects is always a debate on balancing for different reasons. The Workers' Party's proposals for the development of Upper Otta are the result of a weighing-up. On the one hand, there is a desire to ensure more pollution-free hydropower that can reduce the need for imports of coal power up to the other, namely the desire to avoid new interference with Norwegian watercourse nature. Our proposal that opens up a so-called half expansion is such a balance, and we believe that we have found a right and good balance point. Such an extension will result in minimal new interference with the watercourse nature. Nevertheless, it will provide us with significant power subsidies. All six sides of Upper Otta will remain untouched, and the entire main watercourse from Grotli down to Pollfoss will flow just as today. This implies that almost all of the watercourse will be just like today without any further interference. However, it will provide significant power generation, because we are exploiting the nearly 40 m-high dam that has been there for almost 50 years and that involves a great energy potential that makes sense to use. I think that is also why, in its opinion, the Vern Obere Otta action could not only accept it, but, according to its own wording, it proposed half-extension. That's what's written on page 79 of the big news with the quote from Vern Obere Otta's hearing opinion. So Vern Obere Otta has said in two hearings, first with the Workers' Party last spring and then with the Committee this winter, that they are going for an extension of 540 GWh. In retrospect, there has been some uncertainty about that. But it has been said to the committee both in writing and orally. It would be strange if we said that there is an environmentally unacceptable extension, when Vern Obere Otta twice in writing, as shown in the big message, has gone for such an extension, in a magnitude that the Workers' Party proposes. It is not the task of the Stortinge to adopt the extension of the Upper Otta watercourse. Our task is to define the framework for what kind of development we can accept, and then it's the builders who have to decide if they want to expand within those limits. Upland power has applied for approximately 1000 GWh in development. They haven't applied for 900 GWh, they haven't applied for 700 GWh, and of course they haven't applied for 500 GWh. What is gratifying is that they are open to expansion even within the framework proposed by the Workers' Party, and are likely to have a majority here today. This means that we can have a majority today for an extension that is environmentally very gentle but at the same time gives us a good deal of new renewable power, and I think that is an advantage for the environment. Finally, the Government is to adopt extension under the Watercourse Act, and Stortinget is not asking for the matter to be brought back. We leave the extension decision to the Government, as laid down in the law. With this government’s – what to say – flexibility in environmental matters, I expect it to enthusiastically adopt half the expansion and ensure that it is implemented, even though they feel that it is an environmental scandal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e340	The President will recall that all speeches should be addressed to the President, not directly to individual representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e343	The representative of the Progress Party, Korsberg, has signalled our position on full development. The Labour Party has put forward a proposal for a reduced/semi-extension – that is 500 GWh. The Progress Party will draw attention to the first statements of Upland force following the Group meetings of the Labour Party and the Right. Upland power then made a very blatant statement that a reduction in development was wasted with resources, and that this would probably not be profitable. In fact, they have moderated somewhat after the Governing Board meeting on 27 May, when an assessment of the solution was adopted within a reduced framework. The Progress Party asks itself whether a majority of the representatives of the Grand Duchy now wish to reduce the use of the watercourse, when one knows that the present concession application has been drawn up in line with the framework adopted by the Grand Duchy in the examination of the overall watercourse plan in 1993. I would also like to remind the representatives that Skåk City Council, with 17 to 4 votes, has been in favour of full development. Furthermore, it is important not to forget that the entire extension is located in the municipality of Skåk. The municipalities of Lom and Wågå, which are affected by the transmission lines, have opposed the development. However, we see in the statements in Norway’s watercourse and energy works that they refer to the negative consequences associated with the reduction of water flow on watercourses and river basins. They point out that this may go beyond the experience and the recreational value of the site, but, following an overall assessment, the benefits are greater than the adverse effects and disadvantages. As mentioned earlier, Skåk Municipal Council has voted in favour of development. So has Uppland. The Progress Party therefore hopes that today we can vote for a full expansion of Upper Otta.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e356	First, I have to get hold of something that the representative Stoltenberg said. He repeated the same false claims that the representative Hegna made in his main post, namely that Vern Obere Otta is in favour of the proposal that the Workers' Party is in favour of here today. The representative Hegna asked me if I had read the file. I must be allowed to ask if the Workers' Party's representatives have read the letter received by the Energy and Environment Committee of the Storting, of 25 May, from Vern Obere Otta, where it says the following: ‘On the basis of new information on the effects on wild fauna, travel life and the economy of the project, and that the energy gain will be absorbed in a few months, Vern Obere Otta has concluded that reduced expansion of the 500 GWh range is unacceptable.’ The representatives of the Workers' Party are following a long historical tradition today when they are in favour of developing Upper Otta in the order of half a TWh. It may seem that for the Workers' Party it still has an intrinsic value to get the most water into pipes. I thought this philosophy was the history of the Workers' Party. One of the most intense drivers in this country to maximise hydropower deployment is NVE's former director Erling Dienn. In a short-term interview in our company, he said that the hydroelectric cycle in Norway is now over. That is what Jens Stoltenberg said in an interview not long ago. It is very disappointing to note that the Workers' Party now chooses to be more Catholic than the Pope, by stressing that we should still hold high in asserting an old-socialist way of thinking where nature values – and in particular taking care of pristine and beautiful nature – do not matter. We know that this expansion is not close to meeting the challenges we face in increasing energy consumption in Norway. Last year, the increase in a total of 4 TWh — and everyone understands that an expansion corresponding to one eighth of this does not represent a solution. The expansion of Upper Otta is not at all suitable for stopping imports of coal from Denmark or nuclear power from Sweden. We have to look for completely different solutions. We saw a little hope in the center when we discussed St.meld No. in the Committee. 58 for 1996-97, Environmental policy for sustainable development. So it has not been long since an overall energy and environmental committee – all except the Progress Party – agreed that we need to reduce electricity consumption and that in the future Norway should be self-sufficient in energy from renewable energy sources. This promised very well, and it seemed that the Workers' Party had switched on a new line. In the past, it has been formulated that growth needs to be reduced or that consumption growth needs to be stabilised. The size of the population went with this formulation up to and including the declaration of the centre parties from the Adultåsen, where it was expressed as a political objective to reduce the growth of consumption. In view of the fact that Norway has the world’s highest electricity consumption of more than 25000 kWh per year. per capita For years, while we probably have one of the lowest electricity prices in the world, Norway should launch a large-scale effort to reduce power consumption. So instead of doing that, you keep building up hydropower. And the Workers' Party continues to say no to an increased electricity tax and no to a large-scale investment in an additional and alternative energy. In our neighbouring country, Sweden, in 1996, it was decided to spend 30 billion kroner on an additional and alternative energy over a four-year period. In the approximately ten years that the Workers' Party crashed, it was spent about 300 million. kr for research on alternative energy – or about 30 million. kr per year. The Centre Parties and SV proposed a 400 million bet on their side year after year. kr per. and was voted down by the Right and Labour Party and the Advance Party – the alliance that today ensures the development of the Upper Otta. The government has now announced a strong investment of DKK 5 billion over a ten-year period, and this is a challenge for all parties here in Stortinget. Norway is mentioned in the EU’s tourist charter as Europe’s green lung. In several European countries, areas of pristine nature have gradually become very wide. Norway should have been able to afford to bet on preserving much of its pristine nature. Even half an expansion will cause the Heggebott water to be dammed up, and the strange ring island will be lost forever. Below, the Otta River will be almost dried. The largest foot in the Otta watercourse, the High Fossen, disappears, and the Dunfossen will be reduced to one third of normal water flow. The power line will cut vital grazing and calving areas of the wild rein trunk. These interventions are made in the peripheral zone of the planned Reinheimen National Park. It's very regrettable that a majority here in the hall seems to ignore all of these things. The development of watercourses seems to have gained a self-esteem for a majority in this hall. But I have to remind you that in the Norwegian people, two out of three of those who have taken their stand are in favour of development. We need to think about new generations and their need to experience untouched nature.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e393	Upper Otta is unique high mountain nature and magnificent watercourses that deserve protection. With a full expansion yet another piece of magnificent nature will be lost for Norway. The expansion in Upper Otta is a matter of great explosiveity. The watercourse is the last major relatively pristine high-mountain watercourse in Norway and Europe, and it is obvious that this is therefore a matter of strong symbolic values. Perhaps the most serious intervention related to expansion is the power lines that conflict with the plans of Reinheimen National Park. This 56 km planned line will cross long distances as a border fence to the national park. A recent report from the Norwegian Agricultural High School and the Foundation for Natural Research shows that these power lines will have significant negative effects on the wild rein trunk. The forcelines cross the grazing area of the wild train and may reduce the grazing area of the wild train by more than 25 pst. With the Workers' Party's proposal for semi-extension, we can avoid the problems of the powerlines. We can reduce the wires from 300 kV to 132 kV. Upland power has indicated that there is no need for one then to cross the mountain and threaten the grazing area of the reindeer. They are now considering finding a new trajectory that goes down the valley. Transition Skåk - Stryn is the main trajectory between east and west of the country. The Mountain Party is passed every year by 700000 travellers during the summer months, of which foreign tourists constitute the main gravity. The unique feature of the Upper Otta watercourse nature is that you don't have to be a tanned mountain hiker to see the falls and the mountains. The watercourse passes along the highway to Strynefjellet and is easily accessible to everyone. Tourism represents a central source of income in this valley, and it is based on the expectations of large and relatively pristine nature. A full expansion of Upper Otta will make the area less attractive to nature and tourism. It is therefore not unexpected that both the tourism industry in this area and the Norwegian Tourism Council are strongly opposed to the development plans. Both the Right and the Workers' Party are divided almost in the middle of this matter. For those of us who have fought for the protection of Upper Otta in the Workers' Party, it has been essential to have protection as much as possible. Through the compromise, I believe that we have achieved the maximum achievable. All six side rivers are protected. Tora and Føysa avoid being dried and get a free shower. The pollen is rescued, and the main watercourse avoids reducing the watercourse by 80 pst. on the route from Grotli and down to Heggebottvatt. What remains then is an extension of the fall between the Rauddal magazine and down to the Pollen water. This part of the development is also not difficult for the environmental movement. The disagreement is about the extension of the route from Heggebottvatten and down to Dønfossen. The river is almost drained on this stretch, and this includes the High Fosses. In a compromise, you have to give and take. The ideal thing was, of course, that the Heggebottwatten had not received a four-metre-high dam, and that the Högfossen was spared. However, in the context of what kind of natural interventions would lead to full expansion, nature interventions are now limited. For me, it has been more important to achieve results than to stand firm on principles. Government parties say in the Energy Communication that they are in favour of a continued prudent expansion of hydropower. Show me the expansion that is more gentle than half the expansion of Upper Otta! In reality, we have achieved half a TWh of new energy with very limited natural interventions. With the protection of the six banks and the power lines removed from Reinheimen National Park and down into the valley, this is an environmental policy win.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e416	Many believe that policy is often characterised by short-termity. The development of a watercourse is a decision that cannot be reversed. If the Stortinget decides today that Upper Otta will be expanded, there is no withdrawal period. In other words, we make a choice – not only on behalf of today's generations, but also on behalf of those who come after us. And the choice is between securing natural values on one side and force and ringing coins on the other. It can be a difficult choice when we know that Norway is importing more and more power, and an expansion will bring significant revenues to the community. I still believe that the long-term perspective suggests that Upper Otta should not be expanded. I am referring to the fact that my colleague, Jan Johnsen, has presented the Right's proposal for reduced development. I want to explain why Upper Otta should not be expanded, a position shared by a significant minority in the Right Magnification Group. Upper Otta is a unique river and foot landscape. Rivers and foxes are available. The watercourse is located on one of the most popular tourist routes between the East and the fjords of the West, where nature and the environment form a whole. The area is a popular tourist and outdoor area. A expansion will bring lasting jobs to Skåk. Travel industry, on the other hand, is a growth industry — and tourists do not come to Norway to admire power plants, they come to experience our beautiful and wild nature. It is not without reason that the tourism industry has been clearly opposed to development. The powertrains shall be planned to be installed in unspoiled high-mountain nature in the peripheral zone of the planned Reinheimen National Park. The area is one of the most recent European wild fauna and flora areas that remain intact. The extension area includes some of the main winter pastures of the reindeer. There is uncertainty about the impact of the powerlines, but according to a report from Norway’s high school on agriculture, the impact on the reindeer population may be significant. A reduction of between 400 and 600 animals is suggested. It is a unique river and trunk landscape to be regulated. There will be less water in what is today rich in experience, wild and roaring waterfalls. The residual water flow will vary, but several rivers and waterfalls will be left near the drain. A no to expansion is a yes to protect values. Over a few generations, large parts of the hydropower potential have been exploited. While approx. 20 pst. is protected, almost two thirds are built out. Hydropower expansion has been an important factor in industrial travel, especially in District Norway, and has provided ample and reasonable flow to the population. When I go against expansion, it's because I put crucial emphasis on the generational perspective. Built-in Upper Otta, the remaining hydropower potential will be further reduced. Hydropower expansion means choosing power generation rather than natural experiences. Selecting the Storting force, it is a choice that will also apply to those who come after us. A no for expansion is therefore a yes for the next generation to have a choice. It is a paradox that Norway, with such large natural resources, is in short supply. But if last year we were to replace the imported force with Norwegian hydropower, it wouldn't have been enough to expand Upper Otta. We had to have built out rivers and waterfalls corresponding to three and a half Upper Otta expansion. And the growth in consumption means that we have to have one Upper Eighth expansion every four months if hydropower is to cover the consumption growth. Upper Otta is therefore only a modest contribution to meeting demand growth. In any case, Norway has to look for other options to cover the power deficit. Let me just point out some alternatives: rather than putting new waterfalls in pipes, we can rust up existing hydropower plants. Furthermore, it is a major potential for energy efficiency improvement. And new renewable energy sources such as bioenergy, but especially heat pumps, can make significant contributions. But it is only by saying yes to gas power that the Danish coal power can be replaced by a more environmentally friendly alternative. I am a member of gas power development, and I believe that gas power can be realised under the Kyoto agreement. A no for the expansion of Upper Otta must mean a yes to gas power. We have alternatives. So let's think about the generational perspective and this time call about the natural values. If I'm allowed, I'll just finally take a short explanation of vote, so that we can save some time at the end. I am, as the vote shows, the co-rapporteur for proposal No. 1, if no expansion. I shall, of course, vote in favour of this proposal. However, as has been seen in the debate and news coverage earlier today, the Røjres Storingsgruppe has decided to commit the group to a subsidiary vote in favour of the nomination. I take note of that, and I will follow the decision of the group.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e456	The size is currently dealing with one of the last remaining major hydroelectric power projects in Norway. The question of the expansion or non-exploitation of power resources in Upper Otta has raised a significant commitment. Environmental organisations have been united in their resistance to development. Resistance has also been widely endorsed by other organisations and individuals across the country. It has been a pleasure to record that nature conservation concerns have now aroused a live involvement in all parts of the population, both locally and nationally. This shows a broad disintegration of the Government's position from the autumn of 1997 to oppose the expansion of the Upper Otta. In the Committee's opinion there are four different proposals to be voted on later today. Proposal 1, which implies refusal of the extension request in accordance with the Storing Communication, is unfortunately in a minority. I have, however, been pleased to note that in other parts there are also strong supporters of the Government's position. The government's energy message, which was submitted to Stortinget before Easter, suggests that we now need to take a completely new approach to energy policy. That means we have to go away from a policy where the answer to the growth of consumption is increasingly expanding. We need to slow down the growth of energy consumption and move ahead with energy saving, and we need to move further by introducing renewable energy sources, such as renewable energy sources. wind power, bioenergy and heat pumps, and to facilitate greater use of district heating. Furthermore, it is still possible to get a good deal more power out of our existing hydropower plants by means of upgrades and little controversial extensions. The decision on Upper Otta involves weighing the economic gains and the need for more force and consideration of nature and the environment. And then the government is not in doubt. The consideration of nature and the choice of future generations gives us our answer. Building up Upper Otta is also not a good measure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from coal power generation. In order to achieve this, we need to work to ensure that environmental costs are reflected to a much greater extent in international energy prices than they are at present. I would also like to remind you that each country has obligations to limit its own emissions. Upper Otta represents one of the most important examples of undeveloped high-mountain streams not already covered by the protection plans. At the same time, the watercourse is easily accessible, to the great delight of walkers, both locally and nationally. In addition, one of the country’s main tourist routes passes through this area. The travel industry has been clear in its resistance and fear, at my discretion, that an expansion will destroy this area as a tourist attraction. At the same time, I am aware that a large part of the population in Skåk is in favour of this development for the sake of income and activities this can provide in the community of expansion, and I also understand that. Nevertheless, in view of the need to preserve this watercourse as fully as possible for the offspring, the Stortinget cannot place a decisive emphasis on local interests in the development municipality of Skåk this time. The neighbouring municipalities of Lom and Wågå have clearly opposed an extension, for example: in the interests of the disadvantages that power lines would bring to those municipalities. An overall environmental movement in Norway is strongly opposed to all forms of development, which should also be emphasised when discussing several different options. Although the proposals of the Right and Workers Party provide protection for the vast majority of the tributaries, expansion will lead to major interventions in the form of inter alia: works, threshold construction, pitfalls and need for power lines. In addition, there will be the need for suppression of the Heggebott water, which will flood the island in the middle of the water and change the landscape. The advantages of the project in terms of new power on the network can be said to exceed all the disadvantages in the form of as significant interference with the watercourse as can be seen here. I'm glad there's only a minority in favour of full expansion. At the same time, it is disappointing to see that the Workers' Party and the Right will not take the step fully and go against the whole project.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e475	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e478	The government sent the energy message just before Easter. It shows that electricity consumption in Norway today is clearly higher than what we are able to produce in a normal year, i.e. a year of normal rainfall. Last year the deficit was about 7 TWh, i.e. about seven full Upper Otta extensions. In spite of this, the Government in the Energy Communication adds up to continued growth in consumption, rather lower growth than before, but still growth. We're going to use more electricity in Norway in the years that come, than what we use today. That's why, of course, the government says we need more power. Then they will present what they themselves call an ambitious plan, to provide alternative energy through wind power, heat recovery and bioenergy. But even if you succeed in all the plans presented, you won't even cover more than half of the power deficit we have today, much less the power deficit – with the government's forecasts – we'll have a few years to deal with. As a result, the Government continues to provide for imports of coal power. That's the main conclusion of the Government's energy message. What the government also recognizes, is that we still need to develop hydropower here in the country. It says on page 51 of the Government's Energy Communication, which was presented just before Easter: ‘There are still good opportunities for the expansion of hydropower, both through new projects and through further development.’ In Upper Otta we have a dam of almost 40 meters. We have a minimal new opportunity to get 500 GWh. Does the Council of State think that there is a 40-metre dam in many other parts of the country, where so little interference can build a hydropower plant, and get so much power?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e490	To answer the last one first, no, I don't think there are many other places in the country where there is a 40-metre dam that has been standing for 50 years and that we can use to get energy, as the Workers' Party's proposal implies. Having said that, I would also like to say that I believe that the Workers' Party's opponents of the expansion of Upper Otta have achieved a good deal. Congratulations to them – we will at least let go of the great expansion! Here there is a potential that I am against that we should exploit, but as I see Jens Stoltenberg actually has a point in relation to. Our energy message adds up to completely new grips, and it's ambitious. After describing the challenges now presented by Stoltenberg, I now assume that the Workers' Party will conclude wholeheartedly on the level of ambition we have set: 5 billion kroner in 12 years, with a strong commitment to energy savings, to the development of new energy sources and an increase in the price, which will mean that people will simply be more prepared to save electricity. I think we have to do that. It is no longer useful just to say – and that was the starting point – that in order to meet the growth of consumption, we need to produce more and more. Here we have to take action that is going to manage better. I had hoped that we could save Upper Otta, and with it take care of nature and give future generations the opportunity to choose whether they want to expand. Now it doesn't seem to be the result, but it's an important motive when we go against the construction of Upper Otta.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e504	The development of Upper Otta has two important elements in itself, namely the consideration of local democracy and the issue of energy policy. I do not know, but I expect the rapporteur in Skjåk to have brought with him the Council of State's commitment to nature rather than development. I am sure that the rapporteur in the municipality does not think so much about it. Governments focused on alternative energy, bioenergy, wind, etc. The problem with these alternative energy sources is that they're not on their own economic level because of the high price you get per person. kWh. In the past, the government has called for a sharp increase in the electricity charge. The government has also trained the construction of gas power plants, and now they are also going against an extension project in Upper Otta. This means that the Government is pursuing a policy that makes us more vulnerable to our own power needs. And we can get a beautiful winter day in the situation that because of low self-production and because of too little cable capacity abroad we can get rations on electricity. What does the Government want us not to get into such a situation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e513	Let me take local democracy first. I have the greatest respect for local democracy, and of course I listen to everyone who is committed to developing their own community. I have also listened to the extension trailers from Skåk, and I have listened to development opponents in other parts of the area, and also from Skåk. I also have the principle that in this kind of case we must, of course, listen to the community, but that is, after all, something we have to look at based on national considerations. Of course, this applies to the power supply, but also to the national considerations relating to the conservation of nature and the environment, and this is a large and pristine natural area. I therefore believe that it is too easy to say that any local government should be able to decide on the type of extension, that it is up to the local government. It's not gonna be good. In terms of vulnerability, which the representative of Korsberg was concerned about, we in this government are very concerned to ensure that we are not vulnerable, neither in terms of the environment nor in terms of energy in the future, and then we actually have to change. We can't just keep increasing consumption, we can't just keep expanding all kinds of energy sources, we have to change. We need to invest in research, we need to invest in energy saving, we need to invest in new renewable energy sources, among other things. The waterborne heat, where it turns out to be very much to pick up. So I think we're much more vulnerable if development just continues as it is today, and I would recommend to everyone who's concerned that we should not be so vulnerable, to support the energy message to be processed for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e524	The fact that the Right Party and the Workers' Party have been divided roughly in the middle of this case shows that there is a case that is very bad in terms of having only one thought in your head at a time. It is quite obvious that more means are needed to deal with the energy situation we are facing. That is why I want to particularly angle this case in relation to what I hope the Council of State is also concerned about, namely ownership, decentralised decision, who it is that is the seventh and last to take the positions. We have a number of issues where the city is facing land indirectly, including: The force thing that we are discussing today. We've got the whole predator problem. I understand the concern of the wild train, it's a shame to take the food dish away from gloat and yerv. Indirectly, grazing rights also come as a consequence of predatory policies – not only have farmers been deprived of the right to protect their own livestock, but there are also strong restrictions on grazing rights. These are environmental regulations in forestry, on which, fortunately, with the assistance of the Workers' Party, we have at least had a postponement to the representative Rise's great concern. It concerns the exploitation of stones, gravel and other mineral deposits. It concerns the construction of forest roads, so that you can take advantage of the timber that the forest message provides so well. It concerns protection areas of different kinds, and that is not least, what I would call rigorous concession rules and obligations to live and operate. In all these cases — without exception — the interests of districts are opposed to a policy of involving all resources in the central strata. Then they are to be redistributed in the form of transfers over the state budget, and then they are to be called district policy. Is there any of the areas that I mentioned, where the Council of State could imagine standing on the side of the districts and not on the side of the central authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e531	It was a bit of a tiger, so when the bear heresy opened up talking about having more than one thought in his head at the same time, he has at least that sail. There were lots of thoughts in my head at the same time, and it's not that easy to answer all the challenges I got there. But let me take the principle. I'm very concerned that we're going to focus on the value creation locally, and that people are going to develop their own nutrient base. I am also of those who believe that the values in this country are very much generated locally, and that it is actually that if you measure the export income per. It is not the central eastern regions that come out the best, but it is the districts that, among other things, make up the population and look at the distribution between the counties. natural resources and energy. But I honestly think it will be quite simplified when Bjørn Hernæs suggests that every matter should be decided in a local government. In this case, it's a major national power development case, and we have rules that we have to look at this in a national context. And if this line was meant to hit those who are opposed to the expansion of Upper Otta, it also hits Jan Tore Sanner – Bjørn Hernæs” own party trap – and, I understand, almost half of the Right Group, who also sees the importance of protecting Upper Otta because you see the natural landscape, you see the consideration of future generations, and you don’t want such an extension as Hernæs here argues strongly for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e538	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e541	Let me start by saying that I agree with what the Council of State said just now, that it is the Storting that is responsible for the country's energy supply; it is the Storting that is responsible for drawing up the lines for what we call'sustainable development' and that must balance all the interests in such a context. We see how difficult it is to balance the different opposites of interest – not only in relation to hydropower, but we will certainly experience it in connection with the development of windmills, solar panels, gas power plants or whatever it may be – and the balances must be placed on this house. We are facing a major challenge in meeting energy needs, but the government does not provide a credible answer to how to do it in the years to come. Already in today's situation, we are facing a gap between consumption and production of about 7 TWh, a gap that we currently cover by import. It brings up the government with open eyes: imports of coal power and nuclear power. But what kind of environmental choices is that? We don't have to make some difficult decisions that involve natural interference at home, but we can then very easily fail the environment. The goal of sustainable development is global, it is independent of national borders — but it requires all countries to follow up, that no one leaves to the neighbour to take the loads alone. Meeting Norway’s demand for power through coal and nuclear power is a poor environmental policy, and we are loading these problems into our neighbouring countries. This means that Norwegian energy consumption will cause more emissions than by expanding hydropower and gas power at home. The working party believes that there are other ways out. We want to build up renewable energy, like wind power, we want to stimulate technology improvements that give more power, we want to build up power plants so that we get more power out of them – something we specifically put forward with our proposal to temporarily eliminate the investment tax on the construction and upgrading of hydropower plants. But if we are to take the forecasts in the energy message and in the energy investigation seriously, this will not be enough. So we have to make difficult choices as well. Genuine hydropower expansion is a choice the Workers' Party makes. That's the background for our yes to a reduced expansion of Upper Otta. Full expansion would involve extensive natural interventions. But in the Upper Otta watercourse there is already a major intervention – important parts of the watercourse are already regulated, and large warehouses are built. It is therefore possible to implement a limited development which will provide for minimal further interference in the watercourse but which at the same time results in significant power generation. Even reduced expansion gives a significant amount of power, in fact almost as much as the Alta power plant. The working party is in favour of an extension that will give about 540 GWh. This does not meet Norway’s need for force, but it is a contribution – a contribution that gives much force in relation to the nature intervention that is needed. Yes, I would say, show me the energy expansion that gives the corresponding amount of power, with correspondingly limited natural interference. It's almost incomprehensible that the government is receding to make such an extension. The government itself says in the Energy Communication that Norway still has good opportunities to expand hydropower. I have to ask what kind of projects the government is for when it's against a limited expansion, as the Workers' Party is in favour. I think it is constructive that the Right now signals that they will support the Workers' Party's position subsidiaryly. Our alternative involves a gentle development, while protecting nature. I'm glad that this seems to gather support in Stortinget. I noticed that the leader of the action Vern Obere Otta just said in the Dagsrevyen that the Workers' Party's alternative is something everyone can live with. And it's not so stupid that the Stortinget makes decisions that everyone can live with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e568	Upper Otta is one of Norway’s most experienced landscapes, with a unique nature. The combination of availability and natural qualities makes the area very valuable in terms of nature protection. It has been crucial for the Government when we have proposed to protect the watercourse. Today, we are seeing an increasing pressure on our large, continuous wilderness areas. For the last 20-30 years, this type of natural heritage bit by bit has been affected by technical intervention. Putting an end to this development is today one of our greatest environmental challenges. The North Ottadals area is next to Hardangervidda the largest remaining unspoiled area in South Norway. There are evidences here of great protection interests in geology, botany, zoology and cultural history. But it's the whole thing of great variation that gives it such great natural value. The area also has unique value as the reference area. What is particularly pointed out is the wild rein and watercourses with their biological communities. It's this whole thing that's the background for us planning Reinheimen National Park and its landscape protection area. Next to the fjords, the watercourse nature is probably the most special and special in Norwegian nature from a global perspective. Norway’s watercourse landscapes are among the most magnificent and varied in the world and are unique in Europe. Norway has the largest spectrum in Europe in terms of diversity, variation and size of watercourses. We therefore also have an international responsibility for protecting watercourses and in other ways taking care of the watercourse nature. Norway originally had half of the positions on the ‘Top 20’ list of cases in terms of height. Now we only have two unspoiled freaks left on this list. The footfalls in Upper Otta are at much as high as these, but what characterizes the footfalls is that they are easily accessible, and that some of them have large waterflows. There are not many other places you can almost just walk out of the car to experience such water-rich freaks. Surveys show that tourists come to Norway primarily in order to experience nature, and not least the nature of the fox. For many Europeans, Norway is the closest opportunity for wilderness and experience tourism. The expansion will lead to the loss of most of their glory by these water-rich footprints along some of the country's main tourist roads. It is not strange, therefore, that the tourism industry has committed itself to the development plans. The local authorities of Lom and Wagå are unanimous in their opposition to the expansion and are particularly concerned with the landscape and the impact that the power line can have on the wild rein trunk. In power development matters, there is a great deal to be done before a unanimous decision is taken by the local government. The municipalities are not affected by the hydropower development itself, but the power line and the power development need to be seen as a whole. For wild reindeer, too, the area has a unique value from a European perspective. Much indicates that the power line will have major consequences for this strain. This also applies to the slightly smaller power line that can be built by halved expansion, and this applies regardless of the choice of alternative. Through the Berne Convention and the UN Convention on Biological Diversity, we have taken on a special responsibility to preserve the most recent wild reindeer tribes in Europe. The Berne Convention and the BioConvention mean that the precautionary principle should be applied when there is doubt that the planned activity would be very damaging, in this case for the wild. The government uses the precautionary principle when setting environmental policy objectives. It is therefore natural that we are concerned about developments that weaken our ability to take care of the part of biodiversity for which we have a special responsibility internationally. Everything suggests that a majority on the Stortinget tonight will adopt a so-called half-Upper Eighth extension. The reason is that we need energy to cover increasing energy consumption. At the same time, we all know that this does not solve Norway's energy problem. Our energy problem is primarily that we consume too much energy. One main reason for this is that energy is too cheap. But because the majority are reluctant to do something to reduce energy consumption, for example by: increasing electricity prices, it looks like the bulk of the population today is more likely to sacrifice one of our last great watercourses.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e596	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e599	The council of state was very concerned about protecting the watercourses in the article. The Labour Party's proposal is precisely that we spare the most controversial rivers and foxes for expansion. But we want to take advantage of the energy stored in a pond that was built 50 years ago. So we're going to take advantage of that energy, and our proposal is going to give enough power to 20,000 – 30,000 people forever. What is the Council of State's offer for the same 20,000 – 30,000 households? Well, it's that we keep importing coal power. I fully agree with the Council of State that some of the most controversial issues of hydropower development are the question of power lines. But there is also a good deal to be done with the Labour Party's proposals. The need for the largest lines above the mountain disappears. With this option, we can go down to smaller mast types, and the line can be laid down in the valley.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e606	The Directorate for Nature Management recently presented a study showing that non-interventional areas in Norway are disappearing at an increasing pace. The same study shows that there are two main reasons for the disappearance of non-interventional areas. One is forest roads, the other is power lines. It is true that a halved expansion in Upper Otta will cause less problems in relation to the power line than a full expansion would have done, but the technical assessment is that with half an expansion, whatever the trajectory you choose, there will still be a risk of a conflict between the power lines and the wild reindeer trunk. It is therefore to draw things very far to claim that half an expansion will not lead to conflicts with power lines, because it will. Our option is primarily to address what is the real challenge of energy policy, namely to do something about energy consumption. Therefore, the Government has proposed several times to increase the electricity charge. Today, the situation in Norway is that we have the world’s highest electricity consumption and, at the same time, the lowest prices in Europe. You don't have to be an engineer or an economist to understand that if you have a leak, it's good resource policy to put a fine before a rather more water in it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e615	I would like to try out a new Council of State, and see if it is possible to find out whether there is any conflict area in the sphere between central decision and the districts' right to use their own resources, where this government is on the side of the districts. The answer I got instead ended in a claim that I wanted the local government to decide. Of course, that's never been the intention, and I've never expressed it. But it is therefore possible for central authorities to listen to the districts without their decision. A claim that this was an attack on Jan Tore Sanner, of course, is also completely meaningless because I just stated that this is a matter where it is possible to have more thoughts in my head at once. But from the point of view of'significantly less hope', I am also trying on this Council of State: is there any area where one can imagine that the Government will support the districts – in the power situation, in the predatory problem, in the right to graze, in relation to the environmental regulations for forestry, in relation to the exploitation of stones, gravel and other mineral deposits, in relation to forest, moor and mountain protected areas, and not least in relation to what I would repeat are rigorous concession laws and housing and duty rules that make it more difficult and difficult for people in the districts to exploit what they have always exploited in this country from the mornings, namely the resources available to nature? Will it be the interests of what we call ‘urban Norway’ to win in all these specific areas, without exception, or will sometimes win other interests? Later on, what is appropriate to the Torval feel, to Oslo and parts of Trondheim, should always be decisive — except that the same institutions should be used to send out checks to the districts and call it district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e622	I don't know if I'm going to go as far as to say that I'm opening this answer with great hope that the questioner will be satisfied, but at least I'm going to say that I think I should be able to be quite specific on some of the challenges. This government has worked very hard and systematically to mitigate the conflicts between central environmental authorities and local communities in environmental policy. Among the things we have done is to make sure that there are now fewer cases in which central authorities intervene, for example. municipal plans. After a review with the Directorate for Nature Management, we have also, in a good spirit, allocated 1,500 small and medium-sized nature conservation areas to the municipalities and offered them local management. We have also ensured that in the processes ahead of a safeguard decision, there is no longer a process solely under the law on nature protection, but a number of sites are also parallel to the law on planning and building, precisely to ensure that communities and local people are at an early stage in the processes and not just as a consultative body. Last, but not least, we have ensured that conditional killing permits are granted to a large extent, so that damage is prevented from going all the way into Oslo in order to be allowed to shoot a pest. And we've made sure that funds for prevention are widely distributed locally, because it's the communities who know where the shoe prints. The sum of these shows that this government takes seriously the potential conflict between local communities and economic pathways and potential conflicts with environmental constraints imposed by central authorities. And I can also promise the representative herenæs that these are thoughts that will be followed up when I present the coastal defence plan before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e637	Speakers of the Government and Government parties continue to use arguments that the Minister of the Environment has now also used, that some measures — in this case half the expansion or full expansion of Upper Otta — do not solve Norway’s energy problem. It's an argument I think you should stop using simply because there's no one that has one solution. There is not one instrument that solves Norway’s energy problem. If you want to be slow, you could say that the expansion of all three mentioned gas power projects will solve the deficit separately, but it won't solve the whole energy problem. I also admit that growth is a problem, but I think the government is exceptionally light in dealing with its principles when it says that the government is gripping the issue of price. No, it doesn't, the government misses every time it comes to price. The government does not have any principles regarding electricity taxes. When it has made electricity tax proposals for Stortinget, it has been to cover a budget deficit or a lack of coverage. This has been purely for financial reasons. When the Prime Minister here in the Chamber has argued for an increase in the electricity charge, at the latest in the previous spontaneous question hour, he has not used the intention to get a permanent higher energy price, but he has taken into account that now the electricity price is anyway so low! There is a completely different argument than the Minister for the Environment is now using. I would ask the Government to use one of the two arguments. Both parts can be done, but the argument that we have to set up the electricity charge now because the electricity price is so low, assumes that the electricity charge will be reduced again when the electricity price again becomes high. And it's a completely different cyclical instrument from what the Minister for the Environment is now arguing for. My question is: Is the Minister for the Environment representative of the Government's view, or is the Prime Minister representative of the Government's view on the use of electricity charges in relation to the energy price?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e646	I think the representative Per-Kristian Foss here is drawing something far in a one-sided direction in relation to the argument about the electricity charge, and as far as I know the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister and I agree on this argument. What's our point is that without doing anything about the consumption side, we won't be able to solve the energy problems in an environmentally sound way. Therefore, the Government has also had an environmental justification in the cases we have proposed to increase the electricity charge, and it also has in the energy message that is being processed in the Storting and that is to be treated for the autumn. I believe that the argument that the electricity charge must be reduced when the electricity price becomes high violates the polluter-pays principle. An environmental justification is that an electricity charge should reflect the environmental costs of energy, and that is an important point for the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e655	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e658	It depends on the eyes that see, whether the expansion of Upper Otta is a major or small environmental intervention. I mean, it's a little. The Nord-Gudbrandsdalen, where the municipalities of Skjåk are located, is one of the most economically poor regions in the country. The region has, over the years, been subject to significant pressures as a result of extensive protection plans of different nature. I therefore place great emphasis on the significant benefits of the development of Upper Otta for the community and regional business. It is necessary to comment on two of the most widely used claims against development. The first claim is that the expansion of the Upper Otta Monner little covers only three-four months of consumption growth. The fact is, the expansion of Upper Otta will cover the consumption of 30,000-400,000 single homes in the future, that is to say 100,000 people. It will replace the imports of coal-fired power that generate emissions of 800000 tonnes of CO2 each year, so in my opinion this is a large and good environmental project. The Workers' Party believes that we should have a power recovery with, among other things, energy efficiency and other alternative energy sources. Upper Otta is one contribution. Another claim is that Upper Otta is one of the last unspoiled high-mountain rivers in Norway. That's not right either. Upper Otta has been regulated since 1948 with large warehouses in the water of Raudal and the water of Breits. It's the water in these warehouses that Uppland power has been seeking for power generation. In addition, there is in the area where you think you built a power station, already a sludge dump and a garbage dump that has been there for years. So it's not pristine nature we're talking about using – it's most affected. Therefore, these emerging acquaintances cannot have the slightest indication of what are the actual conditions. Some of them probably never put their legs up there either. Their own luxury – cabins with several bathrooms and bath with heating cables – obviously do not require energy. Or they think, like many others, that force from e.g. Windmills are inflated directly into the socket, without wires and converters? There won't be respect for that. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change predicts environmental development in the next century. I choose to see the expansion of Upper Otta in a long perspective. If it turns out that the amount of snow in Jotunheim will almost double in the next century and that we will get warmer in the summer, the floodproofing of the watercourse will require interventions that the builders will not have to do today. The 100th year flood, if these forecasts come true, will come every magazine year instead. I have been involved in determining several power developments the time I have spent at Stortinget. For me, the expansion of clean energy, which we need in all our functions, has not been an accident for the country, on the contrary. I am pleased that those who have opposed power expansion – including this – have not been put through. It had meant even more imports of the dirty coal power from other countries, and thus even more CO2 emissions. I have noticed that the owner of the country's best campsite, at the Dønfossen in Skåk, goes in for the full expansion of Ober Otta. He is not concerned about tourism and the value of experience for his visitors. That's what he does wisely. Alta's tourism has increased after the power build-up up there. In addition, each kilowatt produced in the Alta power plants is used. Had we not had them, we would have imported even more. I hope that there will be a decision to expand today. I'm sorry that it's not going to be more than 540 GWh, but I'm going to encourage Upland power that builds up to take the decision Stortinget is now going to make, seriously, and make the best of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e675	The debate on energy coverage is important. It is true that a Secretary of State from the Left at the Prime Minister's office recently said that there is some basic immorality in a country that boasts of having clean force and a lot of it, and that covers its growth in power needs of imports of foreign-produced power, produced in the least environmentally friendly manner. We don't notice if it's Swedish nuclear power, which is condemned for other reasons, or if it's Danish coal power that's on our network. That's really our situation. That is why I think the debate on how we contribute – not with one grip solves but contributes – to solving Norway’s energy problem, currently linked to an excessive power deficit and an excessive power demand, is important. For me, there are several ways to solve this. Renewable energy sources are the best. I think the most realistic thing still is hydropower, but other power sources will come into being. I do not exclude that wind power can become – although I recognise that it does not come directly into contact – an energy source also in Norway. But I think the wind turbines will also face significant environmental problems and have significant local resistance along the coast. I guess we've already seen some examples of that. So it'll take time and it's limited, but once again, it's one contribution. So to the concrete expansion of Upper Otta. In my years at Stortinget, I have been involved in the treatment of many hydroelectric systems. In some cases I have voted against and contributed to total protection. I do not regret my contribution to the decision, for example. The stryne watercourse, although local forces today say that it was not the tourist magnet that the supporters of protection had promised us. We should take note of that and perhaps recognize that there is no absolute connection between protecting and believing that there is a thriving tourist industry. The Halling Valley is perhaps the best example of tourism coming almost because of the opposite, but here you have to be careful to draw for clear contexts. But believing that there's a tourist industry just by protecting, is believing what's often referred to as Christmas. I mention this with previous energy expansions because I have also compared to it when I voted against protection, for expansion, for example in the Jostedalen. It was a very controversial development, with very strong interventions. And I have to say, to be direct and concrete, when I've gone through the Jostedalen and compare it with the expansion of Upper Otta, I have to say that I think this is among the more gentle projects. The ponds are there and have been lying there for a long time. There are virtually no new areas to be curbed. There is no outrageous interference with large construction roads, as has often been the case elsewhere. But this is not easy, because there is always a balance between the consideration of great and unique value of experience and meeting a power demand. That's why I'm in favour of full expansion, but I'd like to agree with the compromises that are moving towards somewhat reduced expansion and using the two power stations that are lying there, an extension that should have actually gathered a majority in the Storting, based on well over 700 GWh. But for different reasons, which I don't think is in Upper Otta, there probably won't be a majority for this. It is probably right to say that the reasons lie at the party political level in the Storting, and that is not primarily justified by strong intervention. We're going to have to be as direct as possible and say it. Then you're left with an alternative that only uses one of the dams and dams, the Rauddal water in this case, and possibly leads to a new pipeline with only one power plant. In that case, it requires some change to the application, but not a decisive change. Such a solution is to live with. It becomes a relatively large power build, but very gentle in terms of nature intervention. Whether Upland power is economically capable of expanding this should be given time to assess, but it is not really the Stortinget to assess, because the Storinget should not be a builder. We're going to preface the expansion. I have registered the statements that have so far come to the conclusion that for those of us who are willing to contribute to more development in order to gain power, this is at least an alternative that is better than to say no to absolutely all expansion, especially considering that the most important interventions have been made a generation ago. The dams are already there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e688	A mother of young children from Skåk, a central party representative of the local government, wrote a letter to the staging representatives who begin as follows: «As a fresh local politician, three years ago I was presented with the issue of power building for Upper Otta. I'm a woman and a baby mother, and at the same time by the youngest of the local government. Pure nature and a good growing-up environment are therefore important to me.Power development – only the word made me travel by bus. Scraping of nature with large stone tips in huts and vers, white large pipes and turret rivers. Not to talk about the big power lines that we risked getting right over our heads.These were thoughts that stuck to me. But as a responsible local politician, it was my duty to put myself well into the matter before the decision was made. We spent a long time doing it. There was an inspection in the area, we read impact assessments, and we discussed it. I got a different view of the matter. It wasn't a 60's extension this was talking about. The epocaus is definitely above.’» I'm going to quote Mona Haugen's words, because when the image of the expansion becomes the raging of unspoiled mountain nature, the drying of rivers and large trunks, it's going to be awfully wrong. In the right image, this is where the expansion is done. There are two collected magazines that are the main basis for the whole force project. The side rivers of Otta have already been taken out of the project through the NVE concession treatment. Minimum watering is applied here. Planned construction paths have been taken out. And most of all, in 1993, two-thirds of the power potential was protected. What's left is a natural force project. People in Skåk have lived from time to time with nature. They know how dependent they are on good natural management. Travel life is also a bet area in the region. No one here will tell about the green branch they're sitting on. But I actually felt that even government council Anne Enger Lahnstein here now said that the tourism industry is against development. What is a fact is that Skåk Travel life teams have gone in to support full development. In a letter from 12 May, they write the following: ‘Our biggest problem in the travel life of Skåk today is the fear propaganda of the Naturschutzförbundet and Vern Obere Otta on dry rivers and ruined nature.’ The concession application is in line with that of the Stortinget in Protection Plan IV and the Samla Plan. In the same way, there'll be a new rematch. One has to ask whether the Samla Plan as a whole has any value. The 1,000 GWh expansion project, as it stands out after the NVE's implementation, should be able to expand. The most significant natural consequences are reduced water flow and transmission lines. An option where one of the project's side-effects would reduce these disadvantages, provide more watering and possibility for smaller power transmission lines and a very good solution. Taking out a side river Tora and Vulu, losing a flood suppression and an additional 200 GWh of pure renewable energy, but in return, one saves one of these rivers for intervention and increases the water flow in Otta, so that the reduction is very small today. An additional reduction to 540 GWh does not apply to the collected Widthal magazine. We lose an additional 200 GWh of environmentally friendly power without winning a corresponding natural gain. So, in my view, this is not going to be very close to the best option. I still hope, and that's why we're at least securing multiples for this minimum expansion. The concession applicant has also said that they will make a plan-making effort to extend the scope of this framework. If this option is accepted, the builders will have to be certain that they will not be stopped again. It must be in point 3 of the proposal for a decision. Here there should be no new rematches in the course of the government or anyone else. This thing has many dimensions in it. These include energy needs, nature protection and environmental protection to be balanced against each other. But there is also an important dimension that we must not forget: the relationship between districts and central lines, between local/regional assessment and state authority. We are in this case in a region with a large population decline and a very uneven development when it comes to age empowerment. The region needs a lift. It was this increase to place at least the same emphasis on local assessments, based on in-depth knowledge of the project, as on peer-reviews, flows and forces in society otherwise. NVE finds the advantages with an extension greater than the disadvantages. In a health assessment, the Storting should do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e713	The President notes that the speakers who have the floor from now on have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e716	It is good district policy to allow the districts to use their own resources to make living there viable. The people of Skåk live and have always lived in the pact with nature, at good and bad. They know very well about the positive and negative aspects of expansion, and a large majority of the population strongly want to expand, among them also the majority of travel businesses in the municipality. For 50 years, Breitsvatten and Rauddalsvatten have been raised without the benefit or profit of the people of Skåk. The dam was made to regulate the water supply to the power plants in Lower Glomma. Let the eleven become our life's nerve, says the guards who want to expand. Yes, let's give them the opportunity to use old sources to produce pure renewable power. The majority of mountain areas in Upper Otta were protected during the 1993 review of the overall plan and will remain untouched. For one third, approximately 1000 GWh, it was opened for extension. The development is planned to be very gentle, with strict requirements for minimum watercourses, with great care for the aesthetics of waterfalls and water reflections, and with careful assessments through full impact studies on flora and fauna showing very small adverse effects. The regional policy side by providing the opportunity to finally allow old magazines to be exploited in Skåk will provide enormous strength for the region and give new impetus to a district that needs employment and new jobs. The environmental benefit of producing hydropower is high. The planned expansion would give a force equivalent to 800000 tonnes of CO2 each year in relation to imports of coal power. There have been objections to the power line, and the size depends on investments in the power plant. A 132 kilovolt line won't rip this off in the terrain as a 300 kilovolt line, and there's a lot of work going on to find the best possible ground-fitting solutions. Norway needs access to clean, renewable energy. It is good environmental protection policy to safeguard our climate for future generations, and with as gentle an intervention in nature as planned in this expansion, I have no problem supporting a development as the developer has applied for. But when there are now compromises to meet the objections of the opponents, I am pleased that we have a decision here today. Upper Otta expansion is not an outrageous expansion. It is a good project for the benefit of future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e733	Upper Otta: Many of us get flickering images through our heads when we hear the term Upper Otta – amazing high mountain nature with larger and smaller falls from small and large rivers. I think it actually applies to all of us whether we are for or against the expansion of the watercourse. It is also interesting to see that in all parties – except perhaps in the Progress Party – there is resistance and, in part, great resistance to expansion. According to the media, labour party representatives have also gone out and said that it is difficult to expand Upper Otta when it does not improve Norway’s power balance in particular. Also in the Right, there is an interesting development on the environment, because a large minority of the population are opposed to development. Such a development welcomes the Christian People's Party. The argument that the need for energy just increases should make most of us think new. The power that will be produced in Upper Otta covers a few months of increase in electricity consumption. The Christian People's Party is opposed to the construction of Upper Otta – a choice of values! The Christian People's Party wants a forward-looking energy policy. The challenge is not to put ourselves flat for increased consumption, because we can't build ourselves out of it. Our electricity consumption is by far the highest in the world, and at the same time, the prices are the lowest in Europe. The challenge therefore becomes a comprehensive debate on our energy use and its growth – a settlement with our energy waste. The challenge is to reduce growth, stabilise and reduce consumption. The challenge is to invest in energy saving, energy saving, modernisation of older power plants and the development and development of new renewable energy sources. Today, a decision is taken on the possibility of half-extension in relation to the concession applicants applied for. From the development company, the following was recently communicated in the media: environmental protection has won a full victory with the semi-enlargement decision. An interesting statement! The project is simply not profitable, it was said. And there's another question mark. So it is up to the builder to decide whether the company still sees it as profitable with half the expansion. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to agree and agree with the representative Jan Tore Sanner from the Right: 'No to expansion is a yes to protecting values.' And then finally, when the decision is made, let's at least be friends and well-negotiated, forget all the unrest and the noise and maybe it's partly really edged that's been between us.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e750	: Again, the Stortinget has a case of hydropower expansion. Today it is about that part of the Upper Otta watercourse Stortinget himself has said it can be applied for concession for the development of. This debate, too, has been carried out with great commitment, particularly from the strongest opponents of development. The leader of the Norwegian Tourist Association, Øystein Dahle, says to Dagbladet on 12 May that we now have the opportunity to put a stop to the hydropower crisis in Norway – as if the so-called hydropower crisis has been an accident for the country. This is going to be completely wrong. On the contrary, our hydropower has played a crucial role in building the welfare society, yes, it was in many ways the breakbone. Before Norway became an oil and gas nation, it was precisely the hydropower that, together with the merchant fleet and the fisheries, was the national money bag. It is therefore regrettable that some try to conceal this historical fact in an attempt to minimize the historical and social significance of hydropower. The extension option of the Upper Eight Stortinget today will take account of a number of considerations. High emphasis has been placed on nature protection, while an extension of around 540 GWh can be carried out. This will be a greatly reduced development compared to what was sought concession, but nevertheless I believe that the project can be realized and that it will be profitable. This amount of power is also equivalent to what well over 20,000 households consume in a year, and then we've got them covered forever. Norway has an international reputation as an environmental nation. Since the beginning of this century and up to a few years ago, we have covered our energy consumption in the most environmentally friendly way that can be expected. If Norway had had to use fossil energy carriers in this period, we can only wonder how many billions of tons of CO2 we had extra charge on the international climate. That's why the most joyous thing is that today no point is to be set for the hydroelectric epoch at all. New projects will come, because we must also in the years to come, be concerned with covering as much as possible of our energy consumption in the most environmentally friendly way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e759	: Let me start by saying that I fully agree with proposal 1 in the setting, which supports the Government, and which says briefly that the Storting goes against the construction of Upper Otta. But I think of course it's a pity that there's no majority for this in the committee position. I would like to pay tribute to Jan Tore Sanner from the Right who has shown a political welcome and has taken a stand for nature and environmental protection in this matter. The same commendation is also given to youth representatives who have fought for protection in their respective parties. At all, there is reason to note the young people's attitude in the matter. All the political youth organisations, with the exception of the Youth of the Advance Party, have been strongly opposed to development, while young people from the Ottawa Valley have launched on their own initiative a signing campaign to protect Upper Otta. It's great that young people dare to speak up in the middle of something and think about long-term environmental impacts. It gives hope in relation to sustainable development. As a representative from abroad, I would like to highlight the great resistance of neighbouring municipalities to the development of Skåk. It is therefore not correct, as claimed by some teams, that the views of central regulators exceed the local level in this case. It's about an ideological struggle in this case of protection. No one can deny the enormous energy consumption Norway has, and that we are the net importer of power in periods. It takes a real turn to change this trend. The centre party believes that the price of electricity needs to be increased in order to reduce consumption and turn it against other energy sources. Here we are far from our neighbouring country, which has not had so liberal access to electricity. It is important that we use and further develop alternative energy sources andincreased measures, as outlined in the Energy Communication. Not least, bioenergy and geothermal technology are interesting alternatives that have an enormous potential for which it would be environmentally sound to invest. The protection of Upper Otta is also a big symbol thing. Norway must be able to afford to take care of such unique natural areas if we are to attract tourists on this basis. It is strongly highlighted by the tourism industry and the Norwegian Tourism Council, as well as by other tourists. All nature protection and environmental organisations are opposed to the development. Upper Otta is a major political issue. Many parties have felt it. The builder of Upland power must also be said to be a political body. There is, therefore, a cause for concern when extension trailers are irritated that some of the guards express astonishment at the various signals coming from just Upland force in terms of the profitability of the various expansion options that have been introduced in the media. It's confusing when one day it's said that it's impractical to expand if the project is reduced like that or something, while some time later it opens up for development. It is not easy for taxpayers/inhabitants to know what to listen to. I will give tribute to all the volunteers who have engaged in this matter. It shows that people are getting engaged, and that's good for the people's government, whether the case ends like this or not. Of course, it is my hope that the reconciliation will lead to the protection of Upper Otta, but I realize that the chances of that are small. But hope is allowed until we press the reconciliation button.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e775	: During the debate today, we have heard several times that the alternative to developing Upper Otta is the increased use of energy from polluting thermal power plants. The representative, Stoltenberg, said in his statement that the Workers' Party had made a balance between the expansion of Upper Otta and increased imports of coal power. I can tell you that there are several alternatives, but it is unfortunately unlikely that the working party will make a new assessment. In Norway, we are experiencing a very high level of increase in the use of energy. This is an increase that occurs mainly in private households, an increase that occurs because people acquire terrace heaters so that they don't have to wear clothes when the sun goes down, an increase that happens because they have to have bulbs in the trees in the garden and heat cables in the driveway, and preferably on the cabin. Today, the Storting will decide to demolish a unique river and forest landscape. The Working Party and the Right do this, among others. because people want light in the garden. In the last 50 years, most of Norway’s large waterfalls have been put in contact. These are the decisions this generation has taken on behalf of the next generations. Because there is no willingness to invest in the possibilities of energy saving, efficiency of power plants and alternative energy sources, we will deprive future generations of the possibility of unique natural experiences. I think this is sad. I have noticed that there has been a great deal of disagreement in the Labour Party and the Right. It's uplifting that there seems to be an emerging awareness of the protection of nature in these parties. It is also good that the expansion is getting smaller and more gentle than the first fear. I hope that the majority who are so concerned about Norway's energy balance, at the next crossroads, will be with the government parties in dealing with the problems Norway's large energy consumption brings with it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e786	This debate has not exactly been characterised by views on the most important thing: what are we doing with regard to the development of power consumption? The big question should be, what contribution does Upper Otta make in this way? We then know that even full expansion only covers a few months of increase in consumption. We know that we have to resort to other means. In any case, we cannot build ourselves out of our over-consumption through hydropower – we have to discuss alternative sources of power, we have to discuss ways of reducing consumption, we have to discuss an increment. These discussions should, of course, come before we even touch several watercourses when we know the future. Then we could put the Upper Otta expansion into this context. We could then perhaps have argued that an expansion, large or small, was necessary as a transition to a new policy in this area. Now there is a lot of talk about ‘business as usual’ – to use a little new Norwegian – and that’s not the answer to the major environmental challenges. The energy message also does not give a good answer for the way forward. It does not reveal any reverse operation, as Brother Yngve Rahm asserted in his post. It is also based on increased consumption. We should therefore have the matters in the reverse order, the energy message first. Government parties must take their share of the responsibility that it was as it turned out. In addition, the government is primarily responsible for facilitating a reasonable procedure. From the working party team, a release was suggested. It was not met by the majority of the population, only to deny that the Workers' Party would have the matter after the municipal elections. For those of us who primarily do not want to expand, the Labour Party's proposal, which now seems to have a majority, appears to be more than half a victory. However, for me personally and as a representative of the youth over 60, it is not with an easy heart that I am voting in favour of a proposal that will so strongly affect Højfossen and Heggebottwatten. Had High Fossen been lying until the highway as Polfossen does, more would realize the value of taking care of that fox as well. However, when I go in for a half extension, it is not least because it was pointed out from the protection team early in the case that such an extension would be viable. There is a large number of some that the Workers' Party is proposing a compromise in this matter, but is it really so perceptive? In my view, not in any way. It's quite natural to look for a mediocre path. I also focus on the expectations that have been generated through previous bulk treatment. And there can be no doubt – regardless of the fate of the High Fossen – that through the proposal of the Workers' Party, we are protecting something essential by protecting the side rivers. The municipality also receives some income from the resources that run through the municipality. It is good social democratic thinking that underlies. Such balances have, rather, been the rule more than the exception in Norwegian power development. Finally, the representative Lars Rise claimed that the Workers' Party shows that natural values do not matter to the party. I would argue that our proposal just shows the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e803	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3721]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e816	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e823	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Einar Holstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Center Party proposal No. 2, from Bjørn Tore Godal on behalf of the Workers' Party We are right to vote on the vote on the motion for a resolution. Minorities will be addressed to voting under the respective points of the vote. Anne Helen Rui – to explain the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e837	I advise the Workers' Party to vote for you. In point 1 of Part II, the Workers' Party votes in favour of its own proposal, No. 2nd@item: inlistbox We will vote in favour of paragraphs 2 and 3 under II of the vote. We are voting in favour of the entire III, against the IV and for the V.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e842	I would recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists vote against proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Center Party, against proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and for the Committee's opinion as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e847	I would advise the Center Party Group to vote for you in the setting. In the case of II, I advise the group to vote in favour of points 1 and 2. With regard to paragraph 3, I recommend that the group vote in favour of our proposal, which is proposal No. 1, and against the setting point 3. Furthermore, I advise the group to vote for III in its entirety, against IV and for V.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e856	I will advise the Christian People's Party to vote for you. With regard to II, I would advise the group to vote in favour of paragraphs 1 and 2, but with regard to paragraph 3, I would advise it to vote in favour of our proposal, proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox Furthermore, I would advise the Group to vote in favour of III, for IV, for V and against proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e865	I want the Right Group to vote for I. When it comes to II, I'm going to ask them to vote for points 1 and 2. I think they're going to vote against paragraph 3, but for our proposal, no. 1st@item: inlistbox Otherwise, I will urge the Group to vote in favour of III, IV and V and against proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party. If anyone's in doubt, they can only look at what I'm doing!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e876	The President shall also seek to correct as best she can.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e879	I want the SV group to vote for I. In the case of II, I am in favour of the group voting against points 1 and 3, and I am in favour of proposal No. 1 and 2. I'm also going to vote for III, for IV and for V.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e888	We're going to hope that this was enough guidance. Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e938	So here it's going to be gravitated point by point, and we're going to start with point 1. There is an alternative proposal, No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The North Maritime Defence District shall be established with effect from 1 January 2001 and shall be added to Ramsund.’;
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e954	The Committee's position on paragraph 2 shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e962	So it's going to have to be over point 3. There is an alternative proposal, No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Defence district south, established with effect from 1 January 2001 and added to Marvika, Kristiansand’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e1014	The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e1045	We have finished the voting on case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e1052	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Gunnar Halvorsen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Right-wing Proposal No. 2 and 3, from Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, by the Socialist Left Party, then by proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Right, and then alternately between the position and proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e1064	I would, of course, urge my group to vote in favour of the SV's proposal, No. Two and three. When it comes to the proposal from the Labour Party and the Right, I want the group to vote against. And so do I when I, Il and Il, and Il, and Il, and Il, while one vote for IV and V.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e1071	Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government is asking the Government to continue its efforts to strengthen coastguard functions and to request that the construction of a missile torpedo boat be included in the 2000 budget. [[MTB]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e1083	Proposal No. 1, from the Working Party and the Right: ‘The Government asks the Government to prepare for the start of production of the missile torpedo series in the budget for the year 2000 while providing a corresponding adjustment to the investment profile of the long-term notification. The draft appropriation is promoted to the Stortinge in connection with the revised national budget for the year 2000 provided for a successful probationary period.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e1096	Alternatively, between the I, II and III options and proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The situation awaits the processing of the purchase of new frigates, new helicopters and fighter aircraft until the definition of the concept of defence and security policy in Norway is established.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e1146	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, Left and the representative Jan Tore Sanner Proposal No. 2 by Mr Korsberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, from Jan Johnsen from the Right. The President will put the vote this way: the proposal of the Party of Advancement is first put to the vote, then the proposal of the representative Jan Johnsen, then the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left, the Left and the representative Jan Tore Sanner, and finally the vote. – There has been no protest against it. Then we start with proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to meet the appeals of the applicants for the concession, the Upland Power Team, the Tafjord Kraft AS and the Glommens and Laagens Brutseier Association on the concession for the construction and operation of the Glitra and Obereberget power plants, and to transfer several watercourses in Obere Otta to the existing Breidalswatnet and Raudaldalsvatnet regulatory magazines.’ [[GBL]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e1174	Mr Hagen has the floor for a further explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e1177	When our primary proposal is downgraded, I would recommend – based on requests from the community – that the Group of the Progressive Party vote first in favour of the proposal by the representative Jan Johnsen of the Right on the main remaining development option, and then, if it is downgraded, finally vote in favour of the Committee's position in order to help ensure that at least some further development is planned.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e1182	Then we are ready to vote on proposal No. 3, from Jan Johnsen from the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The requirement of the Kraftlag Uplandkraft, Tafjord Kraftproduktion AS and Glommens and Laagen Süds Vereinigung on the overtest of the Ministry of Oil and Energy against the application for power development in Upper Otta is partially met.2. That part of the application for power development in Upper Otta covering the transfers of Tora, Føysa, Vulu, Blankåe and Måsågrove is rejected.3. The award shall be subject to permission by the King of the Council of State to expand the Upper Otta under the Watercourse Regulatory Act in accordance with the limitation in paragraph 2 and shall lay down the conditions for such authorisation.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-07-2.ana.ud264e1203	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Representative Jan Tore Sanner. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size is opposed to the construction of Upper Otta.’
