ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e20	As previously adopted, the case listed on the supplementary agenda shall be dealt with as the first case at the evening meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e23	NATO's summit in Washington became an important mark of allied solidarity and disintegration in NATO's air operations. The summit showed that there is agreement on the continuation and intensification of NATO’s military actions against Yugoslavia. It was established that it is necessary to be prepared, if necessary, to continue operations for a longer period of time. There is agreement to uphold the demands of the international community towards the Yugoslav authorities. The Kosovo declaration adopted on the first day of the Summit reiterates the demands made by NATO Foreign Ministers on 12 April this year. These include the immediate cessation of military operations, violence and repression, the withdrawal of military, police and paramilitary forces from Kosovo, the deployment of an international military force, the unconditional and secure return of all refugees and internally displaced persons, and unrestricted access for humanitarian organisations. In addition, the Belgrade authorities are required to demonstrate their willingness to work for a political solution based on the Rambouillet Agreement and in accordance with international law and the UN Charter. From the Norwegian side, we attach great importance to the fact that the international community is united behind the demands of President Milosevic. Here is the opinion of the UN Secretary-General of 9 April of great importance. The Heads of State and Government of NATO also confirmed that they will work for a UN resolution in support of the demands of the international community. A UN resolution will mean that Russia too is in favour of the requirements. In addition to the agreement on an intensified air campaign, there was also agreement that other measures to persuade Milosevic to change their policy are necessary. This will include additional financial penalties and an embargo on petroleum products. Norway joined the EU common position on a petroleum embargo yesterday. The government has been working on the necessary legislative proposals and will quickly promote an odelstningsproposition. The NATO military authorities will further make a recommendation to the Council on how to help stop war-related inputs to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The investigation shall also include the establishment of a control regime to prevent the supply of petroleum and petroleum products to Yugoslavia by ship. I would like to stress that a decision on such measures is not taken. Any decision to this effect will have to be taken by the Council of NATO after careful consideration. In this context, we would like to stress that the implementation of any action by NATO is based on international law. We will, on the Norwegian side, work to ensure that any coercive measures against third countries are allowed in a binding UN Security Council resolution. From the NATO Summit, a clear signal was given of the will to stop the air attacks if the requirements of the international community are met. Any bombardment has always provided that the Yugoslav authorities unequivocally accept the requirements and initiate withdrawal in accordance with a precise and rapid timetable. It was agreed that it is not appropriate to insert ground forces at this stage. The question was addressed in informal conversations that showed an agreement to continue the air strikes, and did not change the strategy now. At the same time, it was agreed to give the Secretary-General of NATO the power to carry out the ongoing assessments of the military instruments provided for by the situation, including the update of the plan for any ground operations. However, the use of ground strengths is not relevant in the current situation. Norway and several other countries have underlined the need to actively involve Russia in resolving the conflict. Russia has an important responsibility to contribute to a solution. At the same time, it seems clear that the offers made by former Prime Minister Chernomyrdin from Belgrade after his visit there last week are not sufficient. A leading point is the Serbian acceptance of an international military presence in Kosovo as part of a political solution. The humanitarian situation is very serious. The summit showed that there is a broad consensus that NATO will continue to assist UNHCR and other organisations to alleviate the need for refugees and to remedy the situation in neighbouring countries. NATO's humanitarian efforts in Albania and Macedonia are a significant contribution to international relief work. There was also agreement on the need to start broader and longer-term cooperation with neighbouring countries in the region. At a separate meeting of the Heads of State or Government in NATO with representatives of the seven countries most affected by the conflict, it was proposed to set up a separate consultation forum to maintain close contact with these countries in the current situation. Specific cooperation actions based on arrangements already in place with other partner countries by NATO will also be initiated. At the same time, it is clear that it is not relevant for NATO to issue specific security guarantees for these countries. The summit concludes that NATO will not tolerate Serbian military action against the countries contributing to NATO air operations or to the humanitarian aid efforts of the Alliance. Together with actions undertaken by the EU and the OSCE, NATO’s initiative towards the countries of the region will be important both in the current situation and in a longer-term perspective. From the Norwegian side, we have stated that the aim should be to arrive at cooperation arrangements that also include Yugoslavia. Only schemes that also include and provide positive prospects for the Yugoslav population can provide stability in the region in the longer term. NATO air operations are leading to a gradual deterioration in the fighting capabilities and standards of combat by Serbian security forces. The military infrastructure has been badly damaged by attacks on military installations. At the same time, attacks on field strengths have intensified. The integrated air defence system of Yugoslavia is severely weakened, although there is still a risk of decentralised air protection activity. In addition, NATO has attacked strategic installations such as oil refineries and military production facilities, as well as important lines of communication. The emphasis is on hitting Serbian command structures. State television and radio facilities and some other non-military objectives are under attack because they are also of importance for the warring of Yugoslavia. Air operations are expected to be further intensified in the future, including: by the insertion of Apache combat helicopters and more aeroplanes, and on the one hand by greater flexibility in the selection of targets within the categories and policy frameworks defined by the Council of NATO. Ever since the air strikes were launched, it has been important for NATO to avoid civilian losses. It's tragic that civilians have died anyway as a result of the air raids. It is unfortunately impossible to guarantee that this could not happen in the future as well. Recently, information has been obtained that may indicate a certain increasing dissent against Milosevic's line in Serbian government. Statements by the Deputy Minister of State Vuc Draskovic of Yugoslavia are interesting, both because he requires the regime to tell the truth about the country's foreign and security policy situation and because he is calling for a UN-led force in Kosovo. Despite his later clarification that the statement was not addressed to Milosevic, the television station controlled by Draskovic's party was occupied by the Yugoslav army last night. In my opinion, Draskovic's opinion must be seen primarily as an expression of deep concern in some circles about the situation in which the country is now in. However, we have no indication that this reflects the tone-setting attitudes of the regime. It is absolutely necessary that NATO stand together in its efforts to make the Milosevic regime comply with the demands of the international community. Bad weather and the weight assigned to avoid civil losses have limited NATO air operations. In my opinion, just as fully a continuing air campaign is the right strategy. Operations are effective, although unfortunately things are slower than we initially hoped. The decision to intensify the air campaign aims to break down the Serbian war machine more quickly, thus ending the acts of war as soon as possible. President Milosevic has again deliberately created a refugee disaster by forcing Kosovo Albanians to flee their homes. The procedure has been systematic and carefully planned long before NATO's air operations were initiated, and follows a pattern we have seen in the past, including: in Bosnia. Refugees are used as a political and strategic instrument. The objective seems to be to eliminate a large proportion of the population of Kosovo, while at the same time provoking destabilising neighbouring countries, particularly Albania and Macedonia. The number of refugees crossing borders varies from day to day. Serbian forces often hold refugees back, probably for strategic reasons, while the authorities of Macedonia do not want to let more refugees into the country until there is room in the refugee camps, which are already crowded. Of Kosovo's circa. 2 million inhabitants report that about 600 000 people have fled to neighbouring countries. On the NATO side, it is estimated that approx. 850 000 are internally displaced in Kosovo and there are indications that their situation is now critical in many cases. However, both the UNHCR and the international relief organisations have so far been cut off from working in Kosovo under the current security conditions, with the exception of a Greek relief organisation. The number of refugees is likely to increase further, and thus the need for assistance and protection. The UNHCR continues to expand its appeals, and the next will include 120000 refugees. In addition, they have requested an increased rate of transfer of refugees from Macedonia. So far, it's about. 18 000 of the total 115000 that third countries have promised to receive transferred to other countries. Norway has so far received 1 402, and it is added up to 25 pst. increase in the take-off time in the future, i.e. between 750 and 800 people per day. week. The International Organization of Migration is responsible for the practical implementation of the evacuation. UNHCR is working to ensure that other countries in the region also accept refugees over the humanitarian evacuation programme. For example, Romania has: said he was willing to accept up to 5,000. In addition to the UN and voluntary relief organisations, NATO is also providing humanitarian assistance with transport and logistics for the establishment of camps and the security of the camps. The OSCE is also carrying out significant work in support of the humanitarian organisations in Albania and Macedonia, mainly through the provision of personnel, vehicles and liaison equipment from the OSCE post office that was in Kosovo but is now temporarily withdrawn. UNHCR has welcomed both NATO’s and OSCE’s contributions, although these are tasks that normally do not belong to the OSCE. The means of assistance will, as explained in the article. No 56 for 1998-99, primarily humanitarian and direct support for actions in the region. The funds are provided through both Norwegian non-governmental organisations and the United Nations system. The Norwegian side attaches great importance to coordinating all aid efforts with the UN. The Government will, in accordance with the observations of the majority in the Inst. S. No 149 for 1998-99, consider further humanitarian measures. We will intensify our efforts, especially in Albania. The Government will further consider what can be done to channel assistance to refugees within Kosovo and welcomes a request from Greece to contribute to aid consignments from there to Kosovo. It is also positive that yesterday the Secretary-General of the International Red Cross agreed with Milosevic that the International Red Cross Committee should be able to resume its work in Kosovo. However, it remains to be agreed on how to implement this in practice. I just had a conversation with Sommaruga before I got here, which confirmed that they had a principle agreement, and that the practical arrangements were developed. The Kosovo conflict threatens to destabilise neighbouring countries and thus also the whole of south-east Europe. Serbian forces have recently attacked border villages in Albania on a number of occasions. The construction of a NATO presence in Albania is likely to help prevent this from becoming more serious. Similarly, the military threat to Macedonia is likely to be seen. It is also important that NATO measures take into account the latent stresses that can easily be triggered under current conditions. Both Albania and Macedonia are subjected to enormous political and economic pressures. Furthermore, the impact of the Kosovo conflict on Montenegro, where Milosevic has for a long time been undermining and removing the Republic’s legally elected and western-oriented President, Milo Djukanovic. However, we should be aware that Milosevic is also working to draw Bosnia-Herzegovina into the conflict, especially by playing on Belgrade-friendly circles in the Republic of Srpska. The situation of the ethnic-Hungarian minority in Vojvodina is becoming increasingly difficult, which strongly occupies the new NATO member Hungary. In addition, there is widespread public opposition to NATO’s air operations in both Bulgaria and Macedonia. Together, this implies a very complex and alarming political situation. The main challenges are of a political nature. Economic assistance is an important stabilisation tool, in addition to NATO’s security insurance vis-à-vis the countries of the region. The most immediate danger is likely that Milosevic will succeed in taking over the leadership of Montenegro, where there is a power struggle between Djukanovic, supported by the police forces on the one hand and the Milosevic-loyal Second Army on the other. Djukanovic has long advocated a different policy towards Kosovo, while declaring that Montenegro wants to be neutral in relation to the Belgrade conflict with NATO. However, Yugoslav military units in Montenegro are under the control of Milosevic. The voltage level between the Djukanovic and the Milosevic flutes is increasing. It's made clear that any attempt to steer Djukanovic will result in a firm reaction from NATO. At the same time, we must avoid doing anything to help Milosevic succeed in its efforts to destabilise the Republic. In order to support the Government of Montenegro, it will be important to contribute to the work of refugees. In this context, we will contact the UNHCR and the International Red Cross Committee to clarify how such support can be channelled to Montenegro. We will also assess budgetary support for use for civil purposes in Montenegro. In parallel with NATO air operations, efforts are being made in a number of capitals and international organisations to find possible policy solutions to the Kosovo crisis. The government attaches great importance to the role of the United Nations in this work. In a statement by the UN Secretary-General on 9 April – as I pointed out earlier – he made clear the demands of the international community, and at the same time stated that he would encourage NATO to stop the air attacks as soon as these requirements were met, so that the negotiating trail could be resumed. These requirements are closely related to the requirements formulated by the Secretary-General of NATO. The requirements include the immediate cessation of the violent persecution of the civilian population, the stoppage of military and paramilitary activities in Kosovo and the withdrawal of such forces, the unconditional return of refugees and internally displaced persons, the deployment of an international military force to ensure safe conditions for the return of refugees and unrestricted access to humanitarian assistance, as well as the international verification of requirements. President Milosevic has, as you know, rejected these. From the Norwegian side, close and continuous contact with the UN has been maintained in this work. The UN Secretary-General is expected to appoint special representatives of the Balkans shortly. As Chairman of the OSCE, I am also in constant contact with my colleagues in central countries to discuss possible solutions to the Kosovo conflict. The meeting between Mr Albright and Mr Ivanov at Mr Gardermoen was an important step in this process. In my contacts, at the latest during the Washington Summit, I discussed, among other things, the following: with Mr Albright and Mr Fischer the role that the OSCE should play in further work. The OSCE is ready to undertake key tasks related to the implementation of civil tasks in a peace plan. The organisation has an apparatus on the ground in Macedonia and has come a long way in the planning of these tasks. This includes, inter alia: the establishment of an international police force, the implementation of elections, democratic construction, institution building, the establishment of the judiciary, etc. The German Presidency of the European Union has drawn up an outline of how, based on the opinion of Secretary-General Annan, the implementation of a peace plan can be seen to take place. Its main elements are that the G-8 Group of major industrialised countries agrees to request the UN Security Council to adopt a Chapter VII resolution, including: establish an international peace force. The EU Summit of 14 April concluded the broad lines of the German sketch and Annan’s opinion. The NATO Summit also wanted a Security Council resolution to be part of a political solution. As I said earlier, Russia has an important role to play in finding a political solution to the Kosovo conflict. President Yeltsin's special mission, Chernomyrdin, continues his work. From the Norwegian side, one in the future will maintain close contact with the authorities in Moscow. In addition, a number of initiatives have been launched to ensure regional stability, both from the German EU Presidency, the United States, Greece and Turkey. Important elements are economic development, democratic construction and security. The World Bank and the UN will also be central to this work. The OSCE Presidency sees a need to bring the various initiatives together. It is also necessary to focus on how Russia can be included. The OSCE and EU Presidencies have decided to work closely together to provide the basis for a coordinated approach in this area, including: by contributing to the preparation of an international conference on regional stability organised by the EU Presidency. In this context, we aim to hold a preparatory expert meeting in Oslo during May under the auspices of the OSCE. Here, representatives of the countries in the region, other central countries, as well as a number of international organisations, such as the EU, the World Bank and UNHCR, will participate. The aim of this meeting will be to review the various initiatives launched. The Kosovo crisis presents NATO Member States with serious foreign and security policy challenges. NATO's air operations have been going on for about four weeks. However, President Milosevic does not seem ready to accept the demands made by the international community. The NATO Summit underlined the solidarity and willingness of the Alliance to uphold its claims against the Milosevic regime. Milosevic is the key to a political solution to the conflict in Kosovo. In the current situation, in addition to the ongoing air operations, we must also intensify our efforts for a political solution and for increased humanitarian aid to the refugees from Kosovo. Furthermore, we need to take measures to ensure the stability of the region in the longer term, so that new conflicts can be avoided.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e92	The President will now propose that a brief comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each group of parties and, where appropriate, a final statement from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. No objections have been raised — and this is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e97	The Workers' Party supports NATO's strategy, as we've done all along, and the government's policy. I cannot find anything in the Foreign Minister's statement that I can disagree with on behalf of the Workers' Party. We've never been meant to bomb ourselves to peace. Peace can only be created through negotiation. The purpose of the bombing is to destroy the Serbian apparatus of power, so that it cannot be used again for ethnic cleansing. Before the bombing can stop, there must be an inevitable requirement, as the Foreign Minister said, that refugees are given the right to return home under the protection of an international military force. It is the Workers' Party's view that an international force for the protection of refugees should be based on a mandate from the UN. The UN authority has been weakened as a result of the war in Kosovo by the fact that it was not possible to obtain a clear mandate from the Security Council. This must be veto acts that would not be involved in giving such a mandate, taking full responsibility for it, for there would have been a greater defeat for the UN if Europe had become passive spectators to the fact that a dictator once again slaughtered and deported people. If a peace settlement can be combined by re-establishing the UN in terms of maintaining international peace and security, as described in the UN Charter and the NATO Pact, it will in itself be a significant gain. Until we get there, it is necessary to stand firm and endure. There will be no peace with Milosevic if NATO begins to wave. The cohesion of the alliance is our most important weapon. It is a great advantage that government and greatness are united behind NATO's policies. However, the Government has a special responsibility to exercise leadership. It also applies to the Government as a college. It is the government's responsibility to keep on informing and explaining to the population, simply because it is only the government that has information about the course of the war. There must therefore be no doubt that all members of the government are taking responsibility for the policy pursued in NATO. In the case of ground forces in the meaning of invasion forces, there is nothing else to say if there is no concrete proposal from NATO to decide on. This option is therefore only available as an option. We all have to come back to this if it were to become relevant. Many questions can only be answered when the war is over. Then it is important that we already begin to prepare for peace, by creating a reconstruction plan for the whole area. In addition, it is important to build up the democratic forces that exist in the area. The Workers' Party is here at the disposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We have knowledge and connections to opposition parties and people that may be important to support. Finally, I would like to commend the Norwegian aid organisations. The Swedish newspaper Dagens Nyheter yesterday had an article that humanitarian work has become a popular movement in Norway. That's true. This is not least due to the Norwegian aid organisations. And I want to say, it also says a lot about the solidarity that exists in the Norwegian people. We have no other option than to continue the strategy that NATO has set up. We cannot lose this war at the beginning of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e118	Let me first, on behalf of the Advancement Party, give tribute to the Foreign Minister for his handling on behalf of Norway in connection with the current war, and also a tribute to his role in the OSCE context. Initially, I think perhaps the importance of the Norwegian military presence should be underlined, the soldiers and officers who have contributed to Norway's ability to join our allies on the military side when the alliance now has one of its greatest challenges. It is very important, as Mr. Thorbjørn Jagland said, that in the process that goes on, consensus is marked, not only within the alliance, but also in relation to the Norwegian political environment. I want to stress that there is a task not only for the opposition, but also for the members of the Government and its spokesmen. It will be necessary to manage to maintain this solidarity, and we from the Progress Party will continue to believe for a very long time. From many there has been an expression of almost a hope or a wish that after a few days of bombing you would have results. We have not expected this from the Progress Party, and I think it would be right to base ourselves on the fact that firmness and perseverance will still be the most important weapon for breaking Milosevic's forces, and not least make sure that this is done in such a way that when a solution exists – and it will – the military apparatus is weakened, so that we will not see a new outbreak of military power at the next crossroads. In this regard, we would point out from our side that when an international force is deployed in Kosovo, it is important that its military capacity is such that it is able to secure and guarantee the refugees safely back. Superstructure, command apparatus and other things are to be assessed in the future. We don't want to have a clear opinion about it, but it's important to stress that in such a process you recognize the actual situation, namely that NATO is the organisation that has a command apparatus and a strength that makes the military guarantee possible. It will be important to find solutions together with others within the Partnership for the Peace Countries, and we agree that Russia has a special role to play in this context. I also think it would be right for us to stress that if you are now betting all cards on Russia to sit with the key, it might be a risky way to go. It is also appropriate to work in parallel with other solutions, so that not all eggs are placed in a basket in this context. But the Minister of Foreign Affairs will have the credit for his handling of the relationship between Russia and the alliance so far. It is important to continue with the strategy that the alliance has adopted. In this context, the use of ground forces has been mentioned, and it is said that it is currently not relevant. From our point of view, we would like to stress that the use of ground forces cannot be excluded. Then it is important to plan for this option, if necessary, so that one does not suddenly after a time when this becomes a current situation, says that we are not prepared. And we're very dependent on volunteering from our side. Therefore, it is important that the government do anything to get contracts, so that we do not miss the hopeless thing we have now seen, that we negotiate contracts for the continuation of Norwegian forces almost while on the ground. It is our heartfelt request to the Government to make sure that this is corrected. Norwegian forces are basically not trained for anything other than our own, national needs, the Invasion Defense, and that means sending out soldiers, it needs training and adaptation for what are the new tasks. That's a little bit of a way to go, but we have to participate, stand firm with what's right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e133	I will be allowed to thank the Foreign Minister for the review of the situation in Kosovo. It was an interesting and very useful review. After all, the government has been very careful to keep the bodies of the Great Britain well informed about the development of this war. This applies not only to the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee, but also to the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee and to the parliamentary leaders. That, I think, has been a necessary and important strategy. But it is also useful that a total accumulation in open meetings can be part of this information. I think it also has meaning for a proper understanding of the evolution. There is also an information that can therefore be disseminated to most people, who naturally ask themselves many questions about what is really going on, what is the development of the war, and what is NATO's strategy and thinking. In particular, it is important to stress that there are no simple solutions to end this war and that it also has many dilemmas, many difficult choices. And some have expressed it – it was Kristin Halvorsen – as a choice between war and war, and I am sadly afraid that that is what is the reality of this, but that passivity is the worst option you can choose. The Foreign Minister also stressed that the political consensus in NATO has been important for the decision on the strategic choices one has had to make in the several phases of the war. The political consensus has also been very important here in Norway, and I have to be allowed to express recognition to the opposition for the way it has helped to get an overall basis for the important negotiations and steps that the Government has had to take in the international bodies, especially NATO, and for the way it has followed this up. It has been exemplified that you have been able to show firmness and political unity in a largely collective greatness. I know that the government has greatly appreciated it. It has also been expressed several times by the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister, and I will repeat that here. This is a situation that is deeply tragic and worrying, both humanitarian and political. Both parts therefore have to be worked on. I am pleased that it has also been possible in the humanitarian field to agree that assistance should be given to refugees where they are, in Macedonia and Albania, and that in addition, there is a need to bring groups with special needs into Norway – both for their needs, and also politically, because we know that the government of Macedonia puts this as a prerequisite for accepting more refugees in the camps that are established there. Politically, I refer to what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that this war can also be destabilising for the whole of the Balkans, with the danger that this could entail an escalation of the conflict. In this context, it has been essential that the Foreign Minister succeeds in establishing contact between the US and Russian Foreign Minister at the Gardermoen meeting. I think there were many who felt relief and opposed after this, so that this conflict, alongside the Balkans, would not get a new iron carpet to sink in Europe. There is dialogue and transparency, and the Russians are now actively helping to establish contact and dialogue in an attempt to find a way out of this. Finally, the Minister for Foreign Affairs underlined that Milosevic is the key to the cessation of these war actions. We have to prepare for this to take time, and therefore it was also good that he said in the end that efforts must be made to achieve a political solution in parallel with the warfare. I think everyone in this room is confident that we have a management in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who is able to take care of this in the best way possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e147	Let me also take the opportunity to underline the broad consensus there is in Norway on the strategy adopted by NATO and on the willingness to support NATO's policy in this area. It is also very gratifying to see the determination that came out of NATO's summit this weekend, the determination to bring this action to a successful outcome, in order to create conditions for the displaced to move home and to have a future at home. There has been a broad consensus in Norwegian policy on this. I think it's an important strength, and the Right would like to contribute to this. At the same time, I want to say that I think it is right and good that we have so many exchanges of views between government and big business. I just think that this form that we have here, a presentation with the possibility of a debate, is an important form to follow in the future. I expect the government will use this very form of information in matters that it can and should be informed publicly. That is why the interaction between the bodies of the Storing and this type of debate is important precisely to provide information to the public, which I believe is a very, very important purpose. I readily agree with the representative Røsjorde in the rose he gave. I also agree with the representative Jagland on what he said about leadership from the Government as a college. The Foreign Minister stressed that this action takes time, and I think it is a very important emphasis. The incitement to the experience of the Bosnian operation was probably many who expected this to go quickly, but if it takes time, then we're ready to use this time. We knew that there was a risk, that there were unanswered questions and that there was a price, but I think it's very important to stress that cohesion and the firmness that this calls for. The debate that has been on ground forces, I think, is important, but at the same time I would like to stress that this must be primarily a question of NATO's assessments. If it's true that NATO considers it realistic to come up with the current strategy, then of course we'll continue with this strategy. That's also the assumption, there's no exact answer to that. I would therefore like to emphasise that I further assume that NATO has achieved so far in its planning for the possible use of ground forces that it has done all the preparatory work that is possible, so that this option is realistic and available if it is necessary to change the strategy. At the same time, I would say that war cannot be waged by public meetings, so it is NATO that must have played out on these issues. I would also like to say about possible peace solutions that it was interesting to hear the assessments made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but I would like to stress that the core of this question is that a solution gets so much confidence in the Albanian population that they dare to move back. And that means, I think, that there must be a nucleus of NATO countries in this force. I am pleased that the question of reconstruction is already being prepared. The right national meeting this weekend was very concerned about this issue, and it was thought that some kind of Marshall plan is what you should think about. I therefore think it is right that this is already being prepared. I am also pleased that Russia is being withdrawn as far as possible. I think it would be a tragedy if Russia and NATO were to drift apart, but we see the will of both sides just so that this does not happen. So finally, a few words about refugees: there is no disagreement in Norway that the main gravity of our assistance will be in the neighbourhoods. So what's going on is not that, but whether it's just going to happen in the neighbourhoods. I belong to those who believe that it is not right – that the pressure and chaos that are in the area call for the closest countries to know that we are so much with them that we are also willing to relieve the pressure by bringing some refugees here, as the Government has now proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e165	Tomorrow, five weeks have passed since NATO launched air attacks on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The aim of the action was, and is still, to stop the attacks on the Kosovar Albanians and ethnic cleansing and to give the people of Kosovo the opportunity to return to the areas from which they have been displaced. The Central Party supports the Government's line in the difficult situation of Norway and NATO. It is commendable that the Government, through an open statement in the Storting, provides the Storting with an up-to-date presentation of both the course of events and the current situation. And because all the parties in the Stortinget have given the Government support in the difficult choices one has had to make, it is important that the Stortinget get such an authorized assessment of the situation. After five dramatic weeks, it is useful to establish status, assess the impact of the actions in relation to NATO's objectives and the further strategy to achieve the objective of a solution for Kosovo that means a halt to the war operations and a normalisation of the situation. The decisive decision that triggered NATO's action at the end of March was in effect taken in October last year when the NATO countries met Milosevic's unwillingness to negotiate with the threat of military action. For the sake of Kosovo and NATO, NATO could not bend away from when Milosevic put up a hard fight. The centre party stands behind and supports the difficult decisions and choices of the Government and NATO, because other alternatives have briefly emerged as even worse than the tragedy we see today in the Balkans. The Central Party, like the Government, is critical of the deployment of ground forces in Kosovo. A ground war will certainly lead to much greater loss of human life. There is reason to believe that even a ground war will be long lasting. The deployment of ground forces will also weaken the possibilities for a political-diplomatic solution for Kosovo, nor will it be a good and lasting solution for Kosovo Albanians if Kosovo will for a long time be a NATO-guaranteed protectorate. And finally, the deployment of ground forces will make it impossible to take advantage of the opportunities for a peaceful solution that lies in Russia's diplomatic commitment. Against this background, it is positive that the Minister of Foreign Affairs says that it is not appropriate to deploy ground forces at this stage, even though it is planned for almost all eventualities. On behalf of the Central Party, I would like to express my satisfaction that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has so strongly stressed the work of a political solution. Much indicates that a clean military victory will have to take time. The strategy must therefore continue to be to maintain pressure on Milosevic through military action from the air, while intensifying political diplomatic efforts. Russia must have a key role in the political process. Norway has played an important and crucial role in actively involving Russia. The UN and Secretary-General Kofi Annan will also have to play a central role both in finding a political solution and as an actor in the international peace force that must come after a peace settlement. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed a political solution in accordance with international law and the UN Charter. It suggests that the UN Security Council should adopt a UN Resolution in support of the requirements of the international community. In addition, Norway, as Head of the OSCE, must take the coordinating responsibility for the political-diplomatic process that can provide a solution for Kosovo and the Kosovar Albanians. The Central Party fully supports the humanitarian efforts outlined by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the presentation. Although there are many interests and much at stake in the Kosovo conflict, it is important that we do not lose sight of the fact that there are people, above all, in a desperate and inconsequential distress that we must help to bring about a more humane life in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e184	Europe is in a very serious situation, and it is difficult to see where the solutions are. It is a humanitarian disaster, a county disaster inside and outside Kosovo, and an unstable situation in the countries around it. NATO is bombing not only military objectives but also infrastructure of military importance, and more civil objectives, such as: TV stations. In this situation, it is important to maintain what is the objective of NATO having gone to war without a UN mandate and the extremely difficult balances such as government and enlargement and not least SV have been in this matter – yes, maybe especially SV, because we have no tradition of pushing after NATO, nor will we ever get it. – If anyone thought I looked at Røsjorde now, that's right. So what's the goal? Well, it is that we need to ensure fundamental human rights for the Kosovar Albanians – and a prerequisite to cope with it is a military force in Kosovo that can prevent abuse and ethnic cleansing, and that Milosevic's forces withdraw, and there are negotiations for a lasting solution that can ensure all the equivalency and human rights in the long term and a peaceful solution for the whole region: Montenegro, Macedonia, Rest-Yugoslavia and Albania. And it's important for us to stress that this is the goal, because we have to be open to what means can lead us to the goal. It's not that NATO bombing is a goal in itself. It's never been. We've looked at it as the last resort, and it's an instrument that's done so far that the goals we set have not been achieved, even though Serbian military forces are weakened. At an early stage, NATO saw that if the threat of bombing did not work to achieve a political solution, and if not restricted, bombing should be stopped within a time-limited period to see if it opened the way to policy solutions that could secure international forces in Kosovo and negotiations on more sustainable solutions. So far, this bombing hasn't been carried out by NATO, but it could be an instrument in today's situation. We now have many and conflicting messages: Is there any sign of disagreement on the Serbian side about the further strategy? Can you strengthen some counterpowers from NATO? Can there be opportunities for humanitarian organisations to enter Kosovo and help refugees who are in their own country? And so there might be 850 000 of them in a precarious situation, even more precarious than what we probably see outside of Kosovo. Can you create room for the Russians to follow a negotiating table and get something on it? Can there be room for a UN mandate for a force in Kosovo that can secure against abuse? On the SV side, we would like to ask that this situation be assessed very carefully. Because it must not now be that the instruments are being used efficiently, so that you don't see what you have to do to achieve the objectives. On the SV side, we are very clear that we are firmly committed to the goals we have fought for all along, and that have led us to conclude as we did in this situation. The Kosovar Albanians have been fighting non-violently for eight or almost nine years before the UCK guerrillas had a special uprising. In that situation, they were not heard by the world community. To the extent that they were the subject of discussion in the Norwegian Grand Prix, it was a matter of whether it was safe to send the Kosovar Albanians back home. And many in this room have throughout this period thought it was safe and sound. SV has fought for the opposite. We want the Government and the others who have addressed what can be called a Marshall plan, now also start to concrete a scale and a duration of such a plan, because it must also contain a reconstruction plan that reaches Serbs. And it can be an important carrot to come up with a political solution. There we have experiences of war settlement twice in European territory in this century. After World War I, Germans were treated to provide the basis for World War II. After World War II, a Marshall plan was put on, which did not drag on and humiliate the losers, but was able to include them. It is very important that that signal goes, and the more obligatory and the larger the scope, the more important it may be as a signal into the situation we are in now. Now I have not been concerned with the question of ground forces, and that is because I perceive that the NATO Summit and the Minister for Foreign Affairs clearly say that it is not relevant – and that is a pleasure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e206	Initially, on behalf of the Left, I would like to give full support to the government's handling of the situation in Kosovo, and therefore also to NATO's operations as far as and to the further strategy that NATO has. I would also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for his thorough and thorough presentation to this House today. This is easy for a representative of a government party to express, and therefore there is particular reason to express joy over the accession of the Government from the other parties in the Stortinget. There is no doubt that the Government is acting on behalf of Norway in relation to the situation in Kosovo. I have a great understanding that Kristin Halvorsen felt a reason to stress that this had been a matter that had been particularly difficult for SV. But I think there might be reason to stress that enough for us all have been difficult balances that have been behind our commitment to the actions we are now seeing. It has been expressed by some that we should have missed a public debate on the role of Norway and NATO in relation to the situation in Kosovo, but I believe that the situation of many of us has been that we have doubted that it has been right to go to the actions that have been found necessary and that have been necessary. And the doubt about this has given us the strength in many ways that we now believe that the actions we have had to take are really necessary. As several others have been involved, I would like to recall the background to the acts of war in which we are now participants. The background in Kosovo was the gradual deterioration of the Kosovo Albanians and a sharp reduction in the self-government previously achieved by Kosovo within Yugoslavia. It had begun with the expulsion of Albanians from Kosovo, the start of a refugee situation and ethnic cleansing. When you saw this, you had the experiences of Slovenia, Croatia and Bosnia at the same time, so you knew what the regime was about in Belgrade. Threats of military action were first posed to get Milosevic to speak, and a good deal was being done on the way. Only when the negotiations broke down did the acts of war start, and this scheme and strategy have always had the support of the Left. It is also important to emphasise that the objective is that the Kosovo Albanians who remain in Kosovo should remain in Kosovo, that those who are internally displaced should be able to return home and that those who have become refugees abroad should also be able to do the same. I also think it is important to stress that NATO's action is well on the way also supported by the United Nations, including the United Nations. through the opinions of UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan and the support given to the objectives expressed by NATO. It has been important in this situation to deal with a refugee situation created by the regime in Belgrade and by Milosevic. This refugee situation has led to severe pressures on poor and weak countries such as Albania and Macedonia. It is also important to keep the situation in Montenegro clearly in mind. There is full support in the Storting that the most important thing is to help refugees where they are, and that it is also important to help those countries that have had to cope with large refugee flows. But it is a prerequisite for the refugees to be helped in these countries, and especially in Macedonia, that other countries have also agreed to accept refugees. We now get ominous signals from Macedonia related to the fact that this is not followed up as strongly as Macedonia has foreseen. In other words, it is a prerequisite for helping refugees in the neighbourhood that other countries are also willing to take out refugees. Perhaps some of the most important Norway has done in this situation was the contribution it made to the Passover in terms of clearly expressing its desire to take refugees out. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of what it is now focused on, namely the need to start building up in relation to the countries of the Balkans. I think, in particular, I would like to stress that what we have to say here to ourselves is that we are not at war with the Serbs, in other words, they must also be taken care of in connection with such a construction.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e227	The President assumes that the Foreign Minister now wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e230	I would like to thank you for having the floor. It gives me the opportunity to say thank you for the broad support given to the Government for its policy on the management of the conflict in Kosovo. It is a support that has not been expressed for the first time today, we have felt it and marked it all the time, and we have greatly appreciated it. But it is also important that it is expressed in the way it has done today, because that means that in a completely different way than we would otherwise have been able to, we can stand firm in the strategy and policy we have pursued so far. After the various contributions today, I should perhaps extend a special thanks to the representative Kristin Halvorsen for the support we have also received from SV and her. Dialogue with Stortinget is important. And I and the Government would like to come back to Stortinget with these kind of presentations at regular intervals, as well as of course keeping close contact with the bodies of the Storing, as we have now. It's also important to get out to people with information about both what's happening and what's our attitude. We're still going to do that. And I can assure the Storting that, of course, the entire Government is behind what is the Foreign Minister's policy, and what I have said in my presentation today. I also want to refer to the broad support we have received from people in this context. Several have given tribute both to the Norwegian forces involved in the operation and to the Norwegian aid organisations. That rose obviously ends up with the Government. We have greatly appreciated and noted the importance of Norwegian efforts in different areas. It was with no small pride that I watched a television program while in the United States, where a Norwegian auxiliary worker was interviewed. With his organization he stood for the operation of a refugee camp in Albania, I think it was. There was no doubt that he made a great effort, and this was also appreciated by the interviewer. I would also like to thank the representative Jagland when he says that the Workers' Party is making itself available to be helpful. I think it's important that we use different channels in this work. In fact, we have already had good help from the Workers' Party's contacts, and we will continue to exploit them together with other contacts in this conflict. This is a conflict which must be covered both by official government contacts and by the various other political channels at our disposal. It's true, as was also said here, that there are no simple solutions. We must be able to stand this race out, and I feel that the Government has been supported by these posts today. But we might have to see that we both have to continue using the military instruments we are now using, while at least we have to try to intensify the political work. As the representative, Mr Jagland, said, 'Peace can only be created through negotiations'. There is no doubt that we must try to find a negotiated solution in this conflict, but today it does not seem very bright. The latest signals I have also received after some colleagues have had talks with former Prime Minister Chernomyrdin and current Prime Minister Primakov are not particularly evocative. It's probably not that much substance that's come through the conversations that Chernomyrdin's had in Belgrade, and that's of course cause for concern. But it's important, as I said, that we continue the military actions, but at the same time we are working to find a political solution. We also need to continue planning for a reconstruction of the Balkans. A lot of people are talking about a new Marshall plan. It is a great will, as I see it, from the international community to rebuild, and Norway will of course support this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e249	The debate on the presentation is thus closed. The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the Kosovo conflict be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The budget now goes back to the ordinary agenda. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e267	We have had a discussion on district policy earlier today. I'd like to start by saying that even in Bodø, Trondheim or Oslo, people can't live by shaving themselves. It is easy to fall for statements that young people would like to go into town and sit in a café and drink cappuccino instead of struggling with fishing lodges and dungouts in the districts. What can be quickly forgotten in this anti-district trend is that we still depend on production and value creation. Not everyone can be employed in public, works in fancy IT companies or move money into great brokerage palaces. Even a county or state institution with a swollen bureaucracy cannot swallow more jobseekers in particular. Ultimately, someone has to raise the money to pay for this business, and these values are not created either in corridors or over the counter in stores. We tune our ears full of whispers that the districts, and especially North Norway, have a suction pipe in the state treasury, while we see billions rolling in central struts. Economie professors, public employees and politicians stand up to tell us how little the Northernlander is worth or contributes, and how little value creation comes from this part of the country. But no one has yet explained how a professor or bureaucrat can become profitable, no matter where he may be. What is frightening is that those who are to care for people's interests, the politicians, pick up on this wave of myths about North Norway, without particularly in-depth analysis or review of the claims made. So where are the values created? Yeah, it happens in the districts. This is where most of the industry is located. Let's do a couple of examples. We have municipalities in the districts, especially in North Norway, which produce goods for an export value of between 200,000 and 300,000 per. head. These are the fisheries, and then I didn't bring the industrial municipalities. We can also take regions, and I can take the region from which I come, the Westphalian. If we put together the Vesterål and Lofoten, they're the ones who have a population of approx. 65000 inhabitants, for an export value per a head of more than NOK 100000. And then you can compare: what is it in Oslo? Well, it's going to be 10,000 kroner. Here it has to be added that there are many sales organisations in Oslo that are registered with sales for Oslo, but the goods originate from the districts. So there's a lot less here in Oslo. So how are these districts being premiered for this? Well, we once had a District Development Fund, which was acquired by this merger hysteria. It gave us SND. And what has that contributed? Well, the fraction of the money is spent in the east. And this happens, as I've been in the past, in parallel to the billions that the state has invested in the area. This leads me back to this suction tube, in which you can add a certain symbolism. I would like to say that we, who come from North Norway, have always been poor and used to eating with big spoons. And if we're going to say that in North Norway we get something good or something that's good, we like to have a suction tube. But this suction tube gets thinner and thinner as the years go by. If you're going to compare to the east, maybe the suction pipe is left here, it's going too slowly. You might drink right off the bottle here! I think it was my duty to say this, and to kill some myths and lies about what is happening in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e288	The current government parties, and in particular the Centre Party, strongly attacked the Labour Party Government in 1996 for its lack of commitment to measures to counter the increasing deportation from the districts. Then the central parties themselves took over the government power in 1997, and the district parties themselves got to hold the rules to develop a district policy in their own ideal form. Last year, the Government thus launched a number of areas to help reverse what they saw as an unfortunate deportation from the districts. People were to bet on personalised measures, to bet on creating new jobs, to reduce distance disadvantages, and to improve the visibility and profile of districts. But how has this affected the relocation? In the first 15 months, the Bondevik government had managed the country, moved more than 8,500 people from the districts and into cities or more central districts. This means that each month the districts are drained for more than 600 inhabitants. The rural policy ambitions and objectives contained in the Waxenå Declaration to reverse this migration flow have not been achieved in any way. It must soon be time for some realism and self-search in the government parties in the field of district policy. Because it turns out that the particular Norwegian district effort seems useless and ineffective in a longer perspective, as far as maintaining the population in the countryside is concerned. In addition, the country is totally dependent on people moving, as this represents a labour mobility adapted to current demands of industry and social development. For district policy alone, an almost meaningless concept. A good rural policy is composed of several elements, such as transport, industrial policy, agricultural policy, family policy, local democracy and fiscal policy. So it is all this and more that sets the framework conditions for so-called district policy. And we have to try the right steps in each of these areas. So let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, start by opening up the districts to new and impending people who are not getting the chance to move to the country today, as they are stopped by noble and concession laws, protective plans in fleets, and many difficulties in moving and finding accommodation in the country. Odel and concession laws are nothing less than a barrier to the revitalisation of the countryside and do not belong in a free country. They are totally meaningless as long as there are surplus areas and surplus production. Let's remove these laws that are suffocating the countryside, and stop believing that the interests of agriculture should be the most important pillar of rural development. It is also necessary to refrain from counting heads in the countryside, rather than being concerned with creating freedom, development and economic growth, but based on the market and on neutral and general economic instruments, such as tax relief. At the same time, we must seek to reduce the selective support schemes for selected monopolistic industries through bureaucratic management, control and decision-making. Furthermore, a better infrastructure with a much better road network is also needed in order to compensate optimally for the distance constraints. The country, including the districts, needs not only better trajectories but also a reduction in the economic distance disadvantages created by the world’s highest vehicle and fuel charges. These physical and economic disadvantages have contributed to maximising the government itself by placing a dissident world record in sky-high car, fuel and transport charges, while at the same time pursuing a policy of very low appropriations for road purposes. And they refuse to do anything about this, we heard earlier. But transport costs are a nuisance, both for businesses and for private people in the districts. But anyway, let people move wherever they want! We need labour mobility, and socio-economic it may be best. We have to slaughter the old district police cowards and bet on freedom over coercion and governance in the countryside and in the districts. People don't move from the towns of need, but because time, attitudes, demands, interests and lifestyle patterns change. Against these forces, even the world’s most precious district policy is in vain.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e307	It is true, as many have said in today's debate, that we have had a sustained and strong centralisation throughout the 1990s, in fact with an increasing trend in the last half. It appears that 1997 was the year we had the strongest net relocation from the districts, and almost all of the peripheral areas in the different parts of the country had lower net relocations in 1998 than in 1997. I think that's a part of the relationship that's absolutely fundamental to that we're going to be able to reverse this trend. First of all, in my opinion, we need to be better placed to focus on the positive by living and establishing businesses in the districts. We have to start with the kids and the youth, and do what is needed to give them the necessary sense of identity, pride and belonging to the home. This is why the Government has launched a series of targeted actions, such as: Entrepreneurship at school, cooperation between business and schools, grants to start-ups for young people and the action of positive agents, where young people themselves will be a necessary link between authorities, youth and business, thus establishing the necessary contacts. We will have a whole set of policies in the field of youth, which will make us want to come back to the home country or to the municipality of origin after you have completed your education. Secondly, we need to have faith that fighting centralization is beneficial. We don't get along with formulations like there's no magic form. Of course there isn't. Only hard and determined work is leading. Nor does anyone believe that a decision can be made to maintain the population in all municipalities. It has been said earlier today that the Central Party has taken a decision that the population should be maintained in each municipality. That's not right. What the Central Party has said is that no municipality should have to plan for a decline in the population. So we do not want a state policy that facilitates centralisation. This is also the government's policy, and I have problems understanding that this is a formulation that can raise awareness in this room. I have noticed that the criticism of the presentation has gone on that the measures in it are small and too few. I would like to take up a discussion here today on how we can strengthen regional policy efforts. However, allow me to recall that the Government is already implementing the largest regional policy effort in the 1990s. And there's a lot of significant new things in, for example, our proposal for a state localisation policy. We have in no way abandoned the objectives of, for example: relocation of state jobs — definitely not. When I say to the evening post that I do not see how this should be resolved without delay, the reason is of course that the government has just voted down a proposal here in Stortinget to move out well and well 60 jobs – just enough not on a principle basis. Several of the parties have said that you are not in principle opposed to the relocation of jobs, and that they will decide on it in each specific case. It's positive. However, it is necessary that more people see the need for a more balanced distribution of government jobs in the different regions of the country. I will honestly admit that the relocation of jobs is not easy. That's not the first solution. I actually think there's a lot that can also be done in other ways. This is why the Government has taken action in the field of localisation policy that no government has ever done before. Until now, the state has lacked a truly comprehensive localisation policy for its activities. In several state institutions, for example: Equality Office, Social Security Service, Police, Judicial apparatus, are currently undergoing processes of change which may have significant consequences for the regional distribution of State jobs. What we want with the new policy is primarily to ensure good access to public services for the people of all parts of the country. But we also see it as right and important to use state jobs as a district policy instrument. I would therefore like to summarise what are the main elements of this localisation policy. Firstly, as a general principle, all new state tasks shall be located outside Oslo. Derogations from this principle shall be specifically justified. This is a very important measure that no one has previously proposed. Secondly, there is a general requirement to maintain user-friendliness and accessibility of state services. Thirdly, it shall be a pre-requisite that establishments which place jobs in the smallest municipalities of District-Norway are required to discuss with the municipalities an active conversion aid. An important element is also that decisions should not be taken which may have consequences for the regional distribution until new guidelines have been developed. These guidelines are now under preparation. The proposal on conversion assistance and compensation to municipalities that lose State jobs is not a punishment, as some have claimed today. The reason why we're proposing this is because we want an equality between small and large conversions. In large and dramatic conversions, considerable means of conversion are employed, but there is no equivalent aid for small municipalities experiencing a sustained small-scale job losses. It is clear that when e.g. Vardø municipality over a 10-year period loses approx. 100 state jobs, this has a significant impact on the municipality. What we want to do is to immediately initiate work to clarify what the scheme should consist of, which municipalities should be included, what should be included in the calculation basis for the loss of the municipality, etc. Government localisation policy is important, and I am still convinced that it is necessary to have a fundamental debate on this. Which tasks may, for example: Decentralized? How can we exchange skills in the different departments, for example: in the Equation Statute, which makes it possible to replace losses and existing tasks which are subsequently lost by new tasks. This should be a central objective also for the establishment itself. I would otherwise like to make some comments that the representatives Eye and Brustad in particular complain that I did not mention the local economy in my presentation. To that end, the scope of a statement is limited. You can't take all the important topics every time, which I also made clear in my presentation. However, the role and economy of municipalities was very much included in the presentation last year. Now, in a short space of time, we're going to present our own community economics proposition, and we're going to have ample opportunity to discuss the role of municipalities and the importance of the local economy in that context. Let me also remind you that successful efforts on the part of young people and women are crucial for the future of the districts. A little other benefit if no more of the young and women find it possible and attractive to live in the districts. The women's effort in district policy has been going on for a long time, and it is being harvested after every interesting achievement. The government's youth initiative is new, and also innovative. This initiative is characterised by the fact that individual people’s wishes, judgements and choices are put into focus in a completely different way than before in district policy. We aim to focus this youth effort on both business, culture, leisure, training and education, identity and awareness-raising, against participation, infrastructure and personalised actions. Several specific projects have been undertaken. Let me mention e.g. SMB students, which aim to link students to enterprises in their own municipality. Let me say that SME competence – a recruitment programme to help strengthen the level of competence of small and medium-sized enterprises in order to thus influence and accelerate innovation processes in enterprises. And let me mention once again the initiative in the business areas, where the aim is to facilitate the development of new jobs in competence-based activities in the districts. The business environment could provide exciting and challenging jobs for young people with higher education. This is a bet that has already given results, and has been received very positively around. We have a lot of applications, we've already come a long way in setting up these businesses. I am convinced that in a short time we will have positive results from this effort. I believe that the debate here in Stortinget today has been good and useful. The general positive attitude of rural policy in this room has marked the debate. This makes me still very optimistic on behalf of District Norway. I am sure that we can achieve good results with a combined grip – a grip that at the same time addresses both the personal focus of the Government, the traditional enterprise orientation and the challenges of the broad district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e343	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e346	What we have heard today from the Central Party Council and in the presentation is a solid retreat in relation to what the Central Party has said before in terms of district policy – and that is good! But it's within one area, which I'm actually a little surprised that the Council of State didn't touch on in its post now, nor was it very much concerned with in its presentation, I'm more surprised and negative about the spin-off that the Centre Party has done, also seen in the light of the fact that the Council of State and the Government so strongly emphasizes what I think the majority in this Chamber supports, namely that we have to do something about the women's flow in addition to the youth flow, that is. kindergartens. We are now in a fateful year in the field of kindergarten development. We have the lowest expansion in over 20 years. In 1997, we built 13,500 kindergartens, and this year, the majority of the population and the Government have to adopt a measure of 2,500 kindergartens. We know that kindergarten prices are rising to the worst, and that many have to take the children out. This, of course, also happens in the districts, perhaps not least in the districts. A colleague of the Council of State, the central party representative Unn Aarrestad, has said to the Nations: ‘- Good childcare facilities in the countryside are important to keep families with children and to be attractive to families with children who want to move out of the cities’. I think it sounds reasonable, and I would like to ask whether the Council of State agrees with its party colleague in that, and also whether he will do what Unn Aarrestad has called for, namely to ensure the childcare coverage in the context of the revised national budget. I've learned it for at least a few years in politics that if a seaman meets in the door, as I feel the Center Party is now doing in some contexts, it's an advantage to know each other. I would like to ask the State Council and party leader, Mr Enoksen, whether he recognizes himself in relation to the development of kindergartens and the importance it has in relation to district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e360	Part of the development in the kindergarten sector also worries me, and the Government will come back to this, among other things. in the context of the kindergarten message. It is quite right, as was said by the Aarrestad representative, that having babysitting, not least in the districts and around the countryside, is important for housing, for creating attractive environments and for providing opportunities for professional participation. This government has wanted to give freedom of choice. This government has arranged for it, and we are also taking kindergarten development seriously. It is worrying that there has been a strong decline this year. That'll be looked at. Then it is not the case that the Central Party has made a strong retreat in district policy – on the contrary. This government, as I have said, has made the strongest regional policy effort in this decade. Appropriations for regional policy measures have increased by 18 p.m.. from 1998 to 1999. This is the largest increase in the regional policy framework of operations that we have had throughout the 1990s, as well as the establishment of a coordination function in the department where the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs will have an overall coordination function in relation to the other departments. A number of concrete actions have been put in place in various areas aimed at strengthening rural policy. So claiming that the Central Party and this government have made a retreat in relation to district policy is definitely wrong. We intend to be a pusher and a watchman on district policy issues. In fact, I hope that there are several people who would think they would want to compete with this government and the Central Party on these questions, because that's important. As a nation, we cannot afford to fail in district policy. If we do that, a number of industries that form the basis of well-being and employment in this country will not be able to recruit the necessary labour. These are district industries that we all have a responsibility to take care of and to participate in further development. It's definitely going to continue to do this government and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e375	I'm going to ask the Council of State two-three specific questions. He wasn't this time into what's the most important tool, simply creating jobs. Will the Council of State take hold of his colleague Sponheim and get him to comply with his promises that the form field of small and medium-sized enterprises such as a mercenary will be removed or reduced? The Council of State, in its decision to allocate the investment to infrastructure. Will the Council of State take hold of his colleague, Mr Færvoll, and remind him of the gathering of election promises from the centre party in 5 billion dollars more for road construction than the government, Mr Jagland, provided in the road map for the period? Then there's one thing that I'm interested in discovering in the distribution from the Council of State of Laila Davøy. I have repeatedly asked central party councils and central party representatives here in the house: why is one in the Center Party so negative to public sector competition promotion, and especially in the municipal sector? I have to ask if it is so to understand that the Center Party has now turned around, when you get the right hand hand side of the government statement: ‘The government has therefore started work on assessing public sector exposure to competition.’ Is it so to understand that the Central Party has finally come to its senses in this matter too, is it aware and will implement progress party policies in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e394	To start with, the government has launched a project we call ‘Simplify Norway’. With this project, we intend to review all areas to see where regulatory simplification is possible, not least in relation to business. This selection is managed by the Prime Minister himself, and all central departments are involved in identifying simplification measures, including in the field of business-related questions asked by the representative Solholm. But that's not just where there's a need for simplification. Now it's fair to admit that simplifying is a huge and complicated work that takes time, but this is now going well in all departments. A number of proposals have been put forward and will end up in concrete proposals. Of course, this government intends to continue to invest in infrastructure. I think it is crucial for the development of District Norway, as several others have said, that there is an offensive attitude to this issue as well. But in fact, I think it's the way that all of us in this room, during the examination of this year's budget, agreed that job no. 1 was to secure the Norwegian economy, to ensure confidence in the Norwegian economy and to have a tight budget that would ensure that both the interest rate and employment were reduced, and that the Norwegian economy kept the steering speed that we had. The government has done it. We have now experienced a sharp decline in interest rates, the crown has strengthened, and the Norwegian economy has returned to where it should be, faster than most pessimists had predicted. It was absolutely vital to make those grips. There was no disagreement in this room that so was important. But I also remind you that it is implemented, and has been carried out, a number of large investment projects in central parts of the country, which have also contributed to seizing funds for the sector that the representative Solholm is asking for. In the case of outsourcing: To answer briefly – I have 2 seconds left – the Central Party definitely does not intend to implement the Advance Party’s policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e405	So far today, we have heard that the Labour Party appreciates its sober understanding of the state council, and we have heard that the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party are enjoying peaceful coexistence after the conciliation. But in the debate so far, there has been little clarification of the dimensions of the measures, and the focus is naturally directed towards the budget. Of course, we have also been reminded of the promises that have not been fulfilled on the road side. The question is whether we can get a little bit more information about what's going to be the next budget. Will there be proposals for an increase in general taxation in the next budget? Can we get a signal on that? Is there going to be a new pressure on sick pay? Will the cyclical rate be back? Is there going to be a new pressure on the electricity charge? Or are we getting a re-prioritization going on? What's striking is that one – and it doesn't just apply to the state council that stands here today, it also applies to the government party – suddenly starts talking about temperature when we talk about roads. All the other public measures are clearly less thermal than road investment. So my question is, is it possible to re-prioritize roads with a constant temperature?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e415	Firstly, it is in the nature of the matter that it is impossible for this Council of State to answer what will come into the budget for the harvest. Secondly, it is so that transportation is important. Road construction and having good roads with good carrying capacity in District Norway as well as in the rest of the country is also important. Here we still have big unsolved problems. But it's not just a matter of traffic and road. There are a number of other measures that should also be in place if good and positive developments are to be made in District Norway, not least the measures that have been mentioned by me in the debate on the presentation here today. Competence-enhancing, with personalised measures, and having in place both the broad and narrow rural policies, to ensure active and good enterprise in District Norway, and to ensure that people want to live there and see the good housing quality that exists in District Norway. So it's a bunch of tools that have to be done. That is what this government is committed to, and it will continue to have the breadth of its rural policy measures to ensure that we have a balanced and good development.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e426	The ‘new and broad grip’ is one of the headings of the statement. After some of the speeches we have heard now, I feel the need to clarify what the Council of State thinks is the broad policy, because as we have seen, it is sectoral policy in all areas, and one of the broadest approaches is the municipal economy. It is stated that there will now be more district and regional policies in all sectoral policies, and that is good. But it's a little strange to hear Enoch defend this government's 'large' district policy reverse operation, when it's true of the small and narrow district policy this government has got to step up its efforts. Some of it may be well and good, but I think all of us who want a strong district policy, know that it's the broad that's the most important. Now, it is likely that it has been easier for the Government to have a majority with its budget-mates for a smaller commitment to the small district policy, while keeping the broad commitment down, both in terms of local economy and more market liberalism into the other areas. I could imagine asking Enoxen if it's such that it's the investment in the small district policy we're going to see in the future with greater weight, or whether it's actually the way to bring in with greater weight both economic and governance in terms of the broad policy. Then to the state localization policy. I'm glad of the signals coming. Last year, conversational therapy was to be conducted across the street. Today you talk about impositions, and I think that is necessary. SV has promoted a proposal for a financial incentive scheme for state agencies to promote the establishment of service offices. We think that's important, because there's almost a deafening consensus that this is going to happen, but it happens to a small extent. Can the Council of State envisage considering such incentive schemes as well?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e435	There is a need for a combination of measures both within the narrow district policy and the broad rural policy, as I have said. Municipal economy is central to this. This government has arranged for municipalities to have their fair share of the increase in budgets. However, it is clear that with the offensive plans adopted by this process, which are to be implemented, inter alia, by the European Parliament, the Council and the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council and the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council and the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council and the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council and the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council and the European Parliament, the European Economic Area, the European Economic Area, the European Economic Area, the European Economic Area, the European Economic Area, the European Economic Area, the European Economic Area, the As I said, the local economy is going to come back pretty quickly, so I'm not going to go into it more concretely today. But let me say to the proposals that SV has put forward: these are proposals which are definitely very positive in themselves, and which it may be useful to look at in the context of the work to be done by the Government in the context of regional policy instruments in the future. Proposal No. 2 is very close to the old Free State regime, which has been implemented with good results in some counties. I agree with what has been said that it is important to have the greatest possible free framework so that you can do the priorities you want yourself. Of course, the proposals promoted by SV will be assessed by the Government. As far as government localisation policy is concerned, I believe that it is one of the key steps that has now been taken by this government, and that must be done in the future if we are to be able to manage developments in the public sector in a way that ensures an equivalent service offer in all parts of the country. I think it is absolutely necessary to have a high degree of governance in the development of this sector and not leave it up to the state institutions themselves to decide what development in this sector should be, and I am pleased with the support we receive for this action.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e444	I think the Council of State is trying to get away from talking about local economy, he refers to a municipal economic proposition coming in May. But I do not think it is good enough when we discuss Kommune-Norge, for the estimate in the March report of the Technical Calculation Committee for Municipal and Municipal Economy shows low operating performance in the municipal sector in 1998. For municipalities outside Oslo, the sample estimates that net operating surplus is reduced from 4.9 pst. of revenue in 1997 to 1,6 pst. in 1998. Compared to revenue, these are the lowest operating results since the introduction of the income system in 1986. This is what the Council of State calls the Enoksen a "wide" bet in District Norway. In the case of counties, it is estimated that net operating surplus is reduced from 2,5 pst. of revenue in 1997 to 0,4 pst. of revenue in 1998. This means that net operating surplus is reduced from 1500 million. UKL 250 million in 1997. 1998 kr. This is the broad bet from the Center Party. But then over to something else. In the journal of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, no. 2 for 1999, political adviser Eva Lian shows that it has been allocated 50 million. kr in additional discretionary allowances to the cross-border schools in Norway. Then I get feedback from different places. Not later than 21 April 1999, the newspaper Helgeland Arbeiderblad states that the municipality of Dønna received NOK 600 000 in beauty products from this pot, and that the Presidency unanimously decided to use NOK 100 000 of these funds to appease Lake Solbergel until the King visits it. [[The President clubs.]] Why don't we label these means, so they hit where they're going to hit, and have the effect they're going to have on the cross-country schools?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e453	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e456	The development of the operating performance of the local government sector has several reasons. One is the high level of interest that we've had in parts of the last year, and that I've shown that this government has the goal of getting back to a lower rent. It is important for development also in the municipal economy. But there is also another issue that has been important, and that is the way in which we have chosen to finance the major investment in the care of the elderly and the health sector, in which municipalities are now carrying out large investments to be financed over a long period of time in the future. This has a very strong impact on operating performance in the investment phase and results in a significant deterioration in operating performance over a period of time. This government wants municipalities to have the greatest possible degree of autonomy and the greatest possible degree of freedom to use funds, as is the best way to use them. When the different municipalities have been granted additional discretionary grants to maintain the primary schools, it is a requirement that they have actually maintained the cross-border schools. As long as you do, it's up to the municipalities themselves how you choose to use the funds you get, but it's been a powerful, necessary and good incentive to maintain branch schools in many municipalities. It's what the government wants to give priority to, because I think it's important to maintain the primary schools. I think it's important to have a school in your local environment, and to facilitate schemes that can take care of these. I do not know the situation of Dønna and what assessments have been made there. For us, it is important that each municipality has the freedom to do its own priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e465	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e468	I also think it was surprising that the Council of State did not stress the need for the 'large' district policy, because, when it comes to it, it is the basic economic policy that is crucial both for the working life and therefore for the welfare level of our entire country. This must lead to the Government – and I did not hear the Council of State say anything about it – taking the dark clouds with leave in important industries in our districts seriously. But it's not that there's a policy that works in the districts, and another that works elsewhere. District policy is not a substitute for other policies. It must and must be part of the other policy. So we have to have a regional and distribution position within all the different sectors and have a perspective on the whole policy. That's why it was a little funny here when the Council of State got away from the Progress Party, with which he actually has a budgetary cooperation. Where people are going to live in our long-term country, decisions cannot be made. That is the result of decisions taken by both families and individuals. Of course, there is a link between decisions taken by people and the framework laid down by the authorities. That's why we have to do at least two things. We must both stimulate a development in regions, and have well-being and services that meet people's needs, because we know that the edges are weakened most if there is a weak centre – they are not weakened if there is a strong centre – with a weak centre, you will move even further away, and the possibility of repatriation will be reduced. In addition, we need a policy for those areas that are not in the usual travel distance to larger places, as we have in the area of rural policy and agricultural policy. In particular, as a regional policy effort, decentralised training and the further development of competence in the regions are important. Our colleges need to work continuously to become an integral part of society and business. They cannot sit on their own knowledge, but must contribute to their research developing new activities and increasing growth. The higher education institutions involved in decentralised education should be provided with the means of carrying out such activities. To date, the Workers' Party has not received any notice from the Government about this. When the government also talks about how important it is to develop skills within the SND, I also hope that they think about it when you are going to grant the money. Furthermore, the Workers' Party believes it is time to assess its own share of the total research pot for important areas in North Norway, where they, among other things, are concerned. are very skilled in telemedicine and space research, to mention something, as well as in marine research. Creating a systematic interaction between different actors, both local and national, will ensure the settlement. I want to mention one area since the representative Leif Lund took up the branch schools. The Council of State referred to almost as a general principle and objective for local politicians to decide. It may conflict with the equivalence of having the same school offer whether you live in Dønna or in Oslo. Then there are limits to how much autonomy you can give to the individual municipality, how much each municipality should decide for itself, for example. the policy of education. When we have reduced earmarked grants for the school, we have actually seen that it has meant something distributive. I have not heard that the Council of State has mentioned anything about what one should put instead. If you now reduce further earmarked grants, for example: In primary school, where funds have been earmarked for the school leisure system, but also for our minorities, what should happen instead if it is said that local politicians are to decide for themselves? Indeed, there may be conflicts with the equivalence that will apply wherever you live in the country, when you also know that education and skills will be very crucial for where people decide to establish themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e483	Traditionally, we have had two different ways of looking at district policy in Norway. One is to regard rural policy as a policy of distribution. The second is to look at rural policy as part of a national growth and development policy. Both angles may have something to do with them, but I think that we're going to go a little further and achieve the goal of getting growth and development in the districts, too, it's the last way I mean, which will be the most important way forward. We need to look at the districts as an important producer and not as a supporter. There are very good arguments for us who are fighting for living territory. The most important thing is that the districts are an important part of the Norwegian population. The value of having a lot of different environments is very great for the individual in society, so I'm a little confused with what the representative Grete Knudsen just said. I have the belief that our local politicians know best where the shoe prints, and are able to provide good and equivalent offers. Then it's central that we have to separate the equivalent and the same thing, because a little bit of the force in Utkan-Noreg is that we're different parts of the country. Economically, too, there are large values that are created and that are passed on from Utkan-Noreg. District is a very profitable part of what I just talked about. It relates to exports, to currency creation, and to the fact that districts, especially along the coast, have a very strong role in the Norwegian economy. The district, however, has fostered a good share of the brain capacity and thinking power that we find today in central strata. Perhaps this is even more important than the many other good export articles we have from Utkant-Noreg, like fish, oil, industry and a lot of other things. I note that there is a broad agreement in Stortinget, and I am pleased to note some polls that show that the Norwegian people see the value of this lack, that the city and country can complement each other. And when we're so few, it's important that we focus on what actions we can take, what we want to do, and what benefits district policy can bring. I think that's all reason to appeal to realism. It is not just to use a symbol policy. It's not just asking for more of the actions we've seen that don't work. I think we have to ask ourselves, where is the bottleneck, and what can we do to get rid of these? The main problem for the districts lies in the fact that while we live in the districts as a part of the population, the districts are in lack of shortages one of the major problems. The environment is sometimes too small, too sneeze to appeal to many young people. Workplaces for two are only one of many keywords that could have been useful in this context. Education is undoubtedly the most important single factor for growth and development in Norway over the years to come. This is true both in the districts and in the central areas, but the educational society in which we live, which will become even more important for years to come when it comes to what affects development, also poses a number of problems. Do we have jobs for those who are learning? This may be one of the biggest challenges. Here, too, the same thing as I pointed out earlier, lack of diversity. We cannot create good enough labour markets in each municipality and in each individual municipality. This is why regional thinking, regional action and this are linking several small places to a larger labour market is the most important single measure we can take. It is probably right, as the Minister said today, that we have had a strong increase in so-called measures. However, when it comes to measures that work, I would say, just as Mr Hoddevik said earlier, that if the government parties intend to follow up their promises of increasing traffic flows, it will be the most important single measure for the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e500	I believe that the presentation takes on some of the basics that must happen in the districts, namely how we are going to get work for those who intend to live there. We want young people to take education, and we want them to get a job after finishing education. We are then totally dependent on the existence of opportunities in a varied labour market also in the districts. We need to get better at believing that individuals can create jobs – and want them to do it. If we succeed, it also depends on what kind of public instruments we have to support those who are trying to create not only their own jobs, but also the jobs of others. Because many jobs have been lost, we see that the pressure to keep public jobs in many municipalities is increasing. When jobs become scarce, it becomes difficult to implement public efficiency because we are so dependent on each job. However, in relation to conversion, I think that the statement contradicts itself. The statement states: ‘We need to meet the challenges of increasing efficiency requirements and market rethinking – not to stop rational efficiency or market organisation, but to avoid unintended negative impacts on districts.’ This was a quote from one place in the presentation. Later in the presentation, it is correctly pointed out that several nation-wide state-owned businesses, such as the tax rate, the social security rate and the police action, are preparing for conversions that could have significant regional significance. But here the Government has decided that decisions relating to such reorganisation should be suspended. Then my question is, What does the government really mean? I think the ambiguity was further reinforced by the statement by the Minister of Labour and Administration yesterday, when she said: ‘The government emphasises the need for a large public sector in Norway to ensure equivalent offers across the country. At the same time, we stress the need for modernisation and renewal of the public sector, inter alia. by putting the user in the centre and developing measurable quality requirements for services.» Once again, the question is, What does the government really want? I believe we are in the situation that the government parties have become aware of how difficult it is to find a grip that can quickly reverse the movement flow. While it was previously politically unforgivable by the Workers' Party to talk about an active regional policy, this has also become a valid policy for the Government. For my part, I am pleased with that, and I think it is also the Workers' Party as a whole. These include: in the regions where permanent jobs need to be provided. I'm afraid of a development where only public jobs get attention. Private activities, based on people making money and developing both businesses and districts, are dependent on us. The presentation has a separate section dealing with the years of District Women. I think it's good to focus on women's actions and the situation of women. In Inner Namdal, a scheme is in place for women to be deducted from the student loan if they settle in the region. I wish there was such a arrangement for both sexes. Another thing is that when the government in the budget for the current year removed the possibility of sick pay for anyone who earns less than NOK 57 000, I believe that women's policy is put in a strange light. Part-time women have many of them in the districts, and they are most affected by this budget decision. And not least: kindergarten expansion is almost stopped, while private kindergartens are being laid down. There is also a political double standard here, because kindergartens are also necessary in the districts for women's professional participation and good growing-up conditions for children. Politically, I believe that this is now an opportunity to bring together a broad majority in the Grand Duchy of Great Britain for a good district policy. In the people, we have the majority with us.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e532	I would like to thank the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs for a broad and offensive review of the territory's possibilities for coming on the offensive at a time that in many ways is characterized by centralisation. Districts should consider this situation as their historical chance to reverse a negative trend that has occurred in generations. The country has a government that has as a priority the aim of reversing negative developments and in the long term strengthening the districts, so that – first of all – it is possible to live in the districts and get adequate supplies of work and other qualities in the local environment, which – secondly – makes people want to live in and move to rural areas. Norway is probably one of the most beautiful countries in the world, and until now we have lucky people who have had settlements spread throughout the country. We don't have to imagine that this construction situation cracks apart and leads to an increasing deportation from the districts. This is why the Government so strongly wants to play actively with the district councils to help, so that they can offer their inhabitants an attractive and full life. Therefore, the Government of the State budget for 1999 also proposed to grant more than half a billion dollars for special measures to enable the district authorities to invest more widely and offensively in moving and retaining their own. The size joined this district package, which creates and has created a wide range of measures in a wide range of offensive district initiatives. The Ministry is constantly taking new initiatives, and is cooperating with organisations and other good forces that will bring about the same developments. This has led to an active and positive debate focusing on the premonitions of the districts and the many good reasons why people should be able to create a good existence in these areas. For a long time, the urban environment has seemed attractive, and it has drawn people from its original environment. Local authorities need to see more clearly and take part in a strong competition with central municipalities for more citizens. Against this background, I will support Lodve Solholm's view that competition is a reality and important to enter into. The situation up to now has been distorting. The center has had too many advantages and a psychological takeover. In particular, district municipalities need a discussion aimed at raising awareness of the positive lifestyles of these municipalities. This is a competition that central strokes have won for a long time. It is now time for their premonitions to become more valued and focused on, so that the districts are able to move forward as good housing options for large populations. Very much of the value creation is just happening in the districts. Great resources, both material and human, are fortunately found in the districts. Together with a new, tiring development for the communications sector, this increases the chance for rural areas to offer their inhabitants a more varied professional life. District municipalities have many premonitions when it comes to nature, cultural landscapes, good places, good and broad cultural provision, increasingly better communication, good social security and good basic education, and finally, as Grete Knudsen was about, an increasingly decentralised education. The alternative to strengthening the districts is to move towards a future where the settlements in the districts can slide, so that many people give up living in the deferred districts. This can lead to the extinction of important parts of our culture. The municipal committee was recently on tour in Finland and Sweden. Numbers for these two countries show that about 80 pst. of the municipalities had stagnation or a decline in the population. They said they were taking a rent for the situation they were in, which led to the depopulation of the districts and major pressure problems in cities and central areas. Fortunately, developments in Norway have not come this far. We still have time to realistically focus on a positive development in the districts. It is very gratifying that both the government and the big business set up in this venture. In my opinion, the Stortinget’s best participation is now to support and support the district councils in their struggle to increase the population. Everyone should be able to support such a positive development in the district municipalities. The alternative to being closed down in rural policy is the depletion of rural areas and major urban pressure problems. Therefore, I very much hope that the effort now established to strengthen District Norway mentally and effectively will be closed. It may take some time to reverse such a strong and ongoing development. It takes a lot of powerful tools. So we don't have to give up, but we're constantly looking for new tools to achieve our common goal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e559	The city and country have different functions in the national division of labour and are interdependent. By exploiting this reciprocity, we can ensure access to raw materials, create diversity and a good basis for well-being. Natural resources such as fish, soil, forests, minerals and hydropower provide the basis for much of the value creation taking place here in the country. Important parts of the industry are built on raw materials, energy and mineral reserves existing in the districts. Sales of products from industries using different natural resources account for a large proportion of our export revenues. The districts will also have to play a crucial role in future for the whole country's economic development and for culture, natural heritage and travel. The districts currently account for a significant value creation and have a potential for a large growth if better provision is made for an increased level of further processing. That is why, in the view of the Workers' Party, it is so important to maintain the main features of the housing pattern and secure living settlements in the future. If we are to do this, it is important that we have an equivalent welfare offer across the country, and that we have as much equal competitive conditions as possible for business. If people are to live and operate in the districts, important welfare offers must be available, as elsewhere in society. As the situation now is, the regional policy debate is too much about reductions and closures of important supply. The effect of such negative signals and actions naturally results in an enhanced delocalisation and further depletion of districts and industries that actually have a high potential for value creation and employment. As I perceive people in the districts, they are positive for the transformation and modernisation of society. However, migration must not mean the removal of important services and welfare measures for those who want to live and work outside the central strata. I believe that if we are to achieve a new gift and optimism in the districts, the debate and planning must be more shifted from degradation and liquidation to construction and establishment. In addition to traditional nature-based activities, it must be an objective to establish a wider range of jobs in rural areas. More needs to be done to ensure that new technologies can provide ground for new jobs also in the districts. In this way, greater opportunities can be provided for young people to see a future in the districts. I think it is necessary both for immediate action and for long-term action to ensure the future existence of districts. Municipalities and county councils are the levels closest to the population, which have the greatest responsibility for the organisation of services. In my opinion, poor municipal and county economy is now the biggest threat to the districts. Local and county politicians in most municipalities and counties and from all parties say that this year's municipal and county budget will have to lead to cuts in the service provision. Many municipalities and county councils now need to reduce their efforts within, among other things. areas such as health, care, education and transport. This is in stark contrast to what the centre parties so clearly promised before the election. When the municipalities and county councils are put in such a situation, it is clear that this will affect the districts most. This is not a good district policy, but instead contributes to delocalisation and increased centralisation. To my great delight, I see that in a relatively fresh opinion poll, a majority of the Norwegian people have expressed a very positive opinion about the importance and future existence of the districts. I believe from this that the population both in the village and in the city expects the Stortinget to gather about a bet to take advantage of all the opportunities that lie in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e589	What was most interesting about the State Council’s regional and regional policy presentation was the new approach to the challenges facing districts. We would like to say, as many people have been involved, welcome to reality, the Council of State – even though the representative Kvalbukt in a reply earlier today said that the Central Party has always been concerned with the big district policy. However, the government's regional policy efforts show a unilateral commitment to the small district policy, or what is commonly called symbolism policy. In an official context, the main regional and regional policy was used for the first time in the Annual Report on Regional and Regional Policy presented by the Labour Party Government in the winter of 1997. But long before this, both professionally and politically, it was pointed out that what was referred to as district policy formed an overly narrow and defined concept. The Labour Party pointed out that we had to raise our eyes and consider a much broader grasp of actual instruments. This means that we must also consider other forms of public impact on social development at regional and local level than, for example, what. The SND agent represents. I note that regional policy is becoming increasingly important also in the EU area, in addition to the importance it already has through the EU's comprehensive structural programmes. Correcting differences in the pace of development between countries and regions through the use of regional policy instruments is expected to be of greater importance as a result of the cooperation on the single euro currency has abandoned previous possibilities to correct for different stages of development through the ordinary economic policy instruments. This will necessarily also affect the design of Norwegian district and regional policies. Today's district policy has proved not to work as intended. In any case, this is right if the intention has been to stop the relocation from the districts. So what's the alternative? Well, the option must be to look at rural policy in a more regional policy context. We must make a conscious effort to strengthen the regional centres. The regional centres must be the engine or the driving force in the development of the districts. I am convinced that the only option we have to maintain the main features of the housing pattern is a deliberate investment in cities and regional centres. Only viable regional centres and larger regions are in a position to develop a diverse labour market and complete services, such as demand for new generations. We need to develop housing and labour market regions instead of unilaterally investing in individual municipalities. We must facilitate a common labour market within regions. It is a matter of economic development, and there will necessarily be consequences, among others. for how we distribute SND funds. Housing and labour market regions provide a closer link between the centre and the peripheral municipalities within a region, and it will be possible to live in a municipality even if the job is in another municipality. I don't think it's possible to say yes to both. It is not possible to bet on both housing and labour market regions while at the same time having a similar strong stake in the peripheral municipalities. However, such developments require a much more targeted focus on a number of other areas which, in total, can support under such outlined developments. For example, it has to be. be able to move from the outer edges to the regional centres and get a job there and at the same time live in the outlying municipalities. For example, such a targeted bet requires a completely different arrangement of the county transport plans. There is not necessarily a need for so much increased investment, but the investments made need to be targeted in order to support a development in which the edges and regional centres function as a unit. This means that road development is necessary to ensure mobility within those housing and labour market regions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e604	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e607	In today's societies, rapid internationalisation is taking place in very many areas. It applies both to the labour market and to the private sector. We can communicate with computer users around the world via the Internet. With fares we can go on vacation on the other side of the world. We can watch international TV programs on Norwegian channels as well as via cable and satellite. More and more are added to multinational companies and enterprises. Most companies have international markets and partners. Both production and labour are more mobile than before. What does the internationalisation of each person in the world of work and districts lead to? Good elementary knowledge and language skills are important. International experience is also required to meet these challenges. It is traditionally harder for women to gain this experience, especially when they have a family. These issues are still outstanding in the government's decision to apply to Stortinget. Because if we're going to have women in the districts, we're also forced to look at what we can offer them, and not just look at them as a tool to preserve the construction pattern. For the Labour Party, it is important that women's action should have an equal gender perspective, the aim of which is to improve their situation. In order to attract women in the districts, therefore, one must take on the competences and developments we see in internationalisation and ensure that it is also taken into account in the assessments of the measures. Modern women today need to be encouraged to find it attractive to live in the districts, or for that part of regional centres outside the country. The Labour Party facilitated a number of the support schemes that the Government today points to as new measures, e.g. through a large-scale communication on the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund. women’s right to action projects, support for enterprises which have added women, support for vocational training courses for women, support for occupational kindergartens, and not least support for women’s establishments. We have for a long time had funds for women's coordinator positions in the county municipalities. This has taken over, and many states have implemented the scheme. Government support is less funds to the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund. I miss the offensive hold from the government in relation to the modern woman who lives in the districts, and the demands that internationalisation has today made to Norwegian business to be competitive in the future. It doesn't seem to have access to part-time settings in the public domain or the ability to make some money on a niche product. We need a policy that allows women in the districts to follow in internationalisation and to qualify in relation to the demands of today's workers in an international competitive business. We need to provide training and skills development, because that is what is being requested. I notice that the government council was hurt because the majority here in Stortinget did not move state jobs out to one state. But the truth is, they were distributed to all the counties through their SND district offices. And that would be good, in relation to the Center Party's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e622	I am very pleased with the offensive attitude of the Government and the Council of State, presented both in the State Council's presentation in the Grand Duchy for some time back and in what the Council of State has expressed today. I have also noticed that he has received considerable criticism that the bet is not accurate enough and concrete enough. I allow myself to comment on a few of the contributions of the Labour Party representatives here in the Chamber, Brustad and Eye. When these two representatives from the Workers' Party criticise the Government for the lack of commitment to district policy, and also allow themselves to criticise the Government for not giving much attention to the local economy, there is every reason to listen. For these two representatives, it belongs to the party that had a continuous government power in the 1990s, when the deportation from District Norway really took off. As regards the municipal economy and its significance, these two workers’ party representatives argued that a good municipal economy was absolutely necessary to maintain the settlement in District Norway. I'm going to end up with that. However, the point is that the political memory of the Labour Party seems to be very poor. It is enough to remember the government's Jagland budget in 1996, where the lack of willingness to strengthen the municipal economy triggered a rampart from the entire District Norway – not just from the opposition, but most strongly from the Jagland government's own party traps. North Norway's largest newspaper, North Light – which in no way can be said to be very critical of the Workers' Party – had a whole first page, the title of which was ‘District revolt against the government’, with the image of central workers' party members in Troms. It is part of the story that the Senterpartiet then proposed and had a positive impact on strengthening the municipal economy by just over 4 billion kroner. That's the truth. The fact that the Workers’ Party’s representatives now seem to recognise the importance of a strong local economy suggests that the existence of the opposition has been good and valuable adult training for the party. I believe, in fact, that when we now talk about the need to get a real hold on a turnaround in order to achieve a district policy with a strong uprising in the Storting, we should put away pettyness and criticism – which is really a fair mouthhole – and rather concentrate on what is important, and stand together so that we get into a real district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e635	During the slogan ‘We build the country’, the Workers’ Party, just after the war, launched the most comprehensive regional policy initiative Norway has ever seen. Already at that time it was clear that results had to be achieved, district policy had to be put up along a broad front. The main link was made between value creation and district. Although society has changed radically over these years and district policy has become more demanding, the value creation perspective still needs to remain central. Further development in districts will therefore depend on what content is actually included in what the Workers' Party calls the major district policy, which is orderly in the economy and focused on value creation. Furthermore, the construction of research and development environments and transport as important keywords. But the government is failing. It fails both its own ambitions and those people who really believed in the promises that a center government would reverse the negative development in District Norway. The lack of the cover should not surprise anyone. For this reason, the emphasis is not on value creation and research and development. Let me give you an example: a few weeks ago, the government presented its proposal for a new industrial power regime for the Storting. The power-generating enterprises are mainly located in the districts and are engines for employment and housing. Although the representative Kvalbukt in a line earlier today claimed that the Central Party wanted what she called local maritime councillorship over natural resources, so the Central Party's government councils are going in quite the opposite direction in this proposition. The document contains several negative regional policy signals, and in my view, the proposition aims at a gradual reduction of the Norwegian power-processing industry, an industry in the absolute world peak. The government's good wishes for district policy are lacking in this area of real content. At a time when industrial employment has declined for the first time since 1993, the three central parties should carefully study what the Workers' Party proposes when we talk about strong knowledge-based districts of high value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e648	On a fine spring day like this, it may be difficult to claim that we here in the south also need district policy. Whenever I take the chance, it's essentially to point out that we actually need a total policy for our districts. It is not like the Right Party and the Advance Party claim that only the tax will be low enough, and the jobs in the districts will be preserved. Tax is actually paid out of profit, and jobs must already be established. Today, too, the largest tax revenues, from the largest and most profitable companies in the districts, are in Oslo and its surroundings. Nor is it the case, as the Right claims, that if we just weaken employment protection and hire people temporarily, we will solve the problem. Not even the Right can believe that living in the districts is more attractive if jobs become unsafe. Now, fortunately, times are changing. It used to be that people would like to move to the businesses and the workplaces. The Ericsson case in East Agder was perhaps the turning point for the time when the owners could scald and choose with their employees at their discretion. The Ericsson case showed that in the future capital will not be the most important thing for an offensive owner. That will be the knowledge of the employees. The Labour Party has a comprehensive policy. The current government realized that South Africa needed university education in the civil engineering study to maintain, attract and develop the resources that were in the country. For the gentle south, it's important that we don't stop now. The high school community in the Agder counties is working on bombs to get more college subjects to go to school. This will be a real handshake for the further development of the school and district. If the Council of State really believes that education is a central part of district policy, he must also, in my opinion, be involved in ensuring that the University of Agder is given more university degrees. So a little heart attack in the end: the representative Nymo who was up here and said that after the conciliation in 1996, 4 billion more were allocated to the municipal sector. I just have to make it clear that if the Central Party had been willing to make a settlement last fall, the local government sector would have had NOK 1.2 billion more than they have today, plus that NOK 1 billion would have been more fairly distributed than what is the case with the arrangement that came along with the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e670	The representative Leif Lund, whom I actually believe belongs to the Workers' Party, took a little visit to my home country, Nordland. In Northern Ireland, the Central Party has 20 rapporteurs, but we do not have the rapporteur on Dønna, to whom Lund criticised the use of money. There the Labour Party has the rapporteur. It's for their own men to have it. Then I will move a few miles straight into the country from Dønna and up to my remote, pig-grown mountain community and the challenges it faces. I have more than once people visiting, and the reactions have been: I didn't think it was so remote. Is it really going to be possible to live here? Isn't winter tough? And where's the school? And then I know a lot of people who aren't in Oslo every day, not even every year, among other things. a colleague of mine at school now. The cleaning woman had just been down for the first time and passed through the Central Station. She came back and said, "That was an interesting experience, it was nice to see, meet other cultures." But comfort and wear, that's the worst I've ever experienced. I lost my mind. Traffic, dust, trouble, houses that closed in all directions, completely impossible to orient themselves and find the direction. People everywhere. How do people do that? Poor creatures who have to stay there. Where are the kids playing? These are two extremes in the way of perception of reality. Lucky we are as powers to perceive the value of both of these societies. I'm so free that I say I think I do. Our country is made up of inequalities, and the inequalities mean cultural, social and economic values. But there's a limit to everything. I remind you of the bitch who had a lousy tail on the horse. You take it, you take it. And you don't take it, you don't take it. She ended up with an empty load. To save both the outskirts and the big cities, a conscious policy is needed. There's a need for governance, and that's what the Center Party wants with its district policy. In order for it to be implemented, we in the political environment need to understand the inequalities, respect for the inequalities and recognition of the values of these inequalities. Dilution and convergence could lead to a deterioration in social conditions, loss of cultural values, knowledge, competence and traditional activities and industries. Therefore, it is important to find ways to reverse the movement flow.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e683	According to the statistics attached to the printed district policy statement, the population in Norway has increased by about 10 %. 120 000 inhabitants in the last five years. Many counties have experienced population decline in the same period. On the other hand, over a quarter of the population has come to Akershus in this period — or more than 31,000 inhabitants. Counties and municipalities with a decline in population experience this as a problem. Income and service equipment are weakened, and the trend is difficult to turn around. I understand this very well, and the presentation by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs draws up a number of good measures that are important to stop the centralisation we are now facing. When it is the case that municipalities and counties with population decline experience this as a problem, it is natural reasoning that counties and municipalities with population growth experience prosperity, and within reasonable limits, this is probably right. However, when one quarter of the population growth in Norway in the last five years has taken place in one state, Akershus, one is facing considerable challenges here as well. Public offers, such as: kindergartens, schools and health services are experiencing capacity problems and need to expand. It will be difficult to increase coverage because most of the new capacity supports the increased need for population growth. The public economy is under intense pressure. The revenues of Akershus measured per currently, the population is only 82 pst. of the national average, and thus of the county that has had the challenge of organising the service provision for those who make up a quarter of the population in the last five years. That this has posed major challenges should not surprise anyone. Another field there's a lot of pressure on, are areas. Population growth means new areas for housing, industrial development, transport, etc. In the 1980s it was redisposaled approximately every year. 1000 decorates cultivated land for other purposes in Akershus. In the 1990s, this has increased to approx. 2 500 covers every year, and in a state that has had a central function in terms of food supply in this country every year. I know that the situation with respect to cultivated land is the same in the rest of the Oslofjord region and around the other major cities in South Norway as well as in Akershus. The point of pointing to these conditions is to establish that the whole country, including the central states and municipalities, will benefit from a good district policy. A good rural policy will relieve the pressure on public services and the pressure on cultivated land in key areas. That is why, as a representative of the state with the highest population growth, I am pleased with the statement made by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e698	District policy needs to get a slightly different angle. When are we going to focus on all the positive things in the districts, and when are we going to deploy resources to exploit and process all the natural resources that exist in the districts? While politicians are discussing this, we are experiencing a deportation and urbanisation in this country that almost braves the districts for settlement. Those who move the most are, as many have said, young people. And what has the Bondevik government actually done to fulfill the promise that they would reverse the move flow from the districts? During the lifetime of this government, the districts have been drained for more than 8,500 people, according to the Government’s National newspaper. On 30 April 1998, the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, Mr Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad, said that there was a need to invest in young people and women. This is also said by the current Minister of Local and Regional Affairs — one year later — while the move, especially from north to south, continues. And when are the actions coming? There are many actions that need to be done at the same time. Young people want education, and after education they expect interesting jobs – both women and men – while offering kindergartens and not least cultural services. Unfortunately, part of the outbacks will disappear because of the cash support, and cultural measures are what tend to be in all kinds of budgets, especially where the Progress Party gets to be in charge. And they get that, with this government. But the most important means are jobs and transport. Allow the local population the means to use the natural resources available to the districts, and let us have roads that are in such a constitution that they can be used throughout the year. Only E6 in Northern Ireland has 90 km on which white stripe cannot be painted because the road is too narrow. In addition, we have the Nordlandsbahn, a railway that is in very poor condition. Let's also find a quick solution to the predatory game problems, so that we can keep the reindeer and sheep industry in the districts. Let the districts retain public services, which too many districts are corner stone holdings of importance for the whole housing pattern, and do not degrade industry by providing high power prices. The municipalities of districts are being tapped for residents, thereby further weakening the economy. I expect the sitting government to include the signals from the municipalities in the next budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e714	For the first time in the last year, the focus was on youth in the field of regional policy. This was particularly true of young women and those with high levels of education, who one today has to compete for. In the layout, it says: «For years to come, the management of human resources is at least as important for districts as the management of natural resources.» This is a new and important shift in the regional policy effort on which one is now building. These target groups are simply decisive for the future of the districts. Small other benefits if no more young people and women find it possible and attractive to live and bet in the districts. The youth initiative shall embrace the wide variety of considerations that will determine whether young people find it possible and attractive to move to the districts, or also to be a bouncy there. For this reason, sectoral policy coordination is important for young people when deciding where to go — and therefore one of the broad district policy. This effort must include several elements such as social conditions, kindergartens, cultural services and cross-country clubs. I want to get into just a few of the following areas: District Children's Gardens are one, and very important for young families. Now it turns out that these babysitters are very exposed to closure. It may be because of the cash support, which I still think it was right to go in for. However, we do not need to be blind because this may have caused planned kindergartens to not be created and others to be closed. District children's gardens are so vulnerable, and in the fight to keep up the settlement in the districts, the grasshoppers are very important. We want to keep the young families of our children and be attractive to those who want to move out of the cities at the same time. Financial guarantees during a transitional period may be a means of ensuring their continued operation. I myself have also been busy developing cultural services in the districts. Here, the libraries, with the bookboxes in addition, are important for strengthening the health care provision in the district of Norway. In fact, many places book buses are the only library service for many. They reach where the users live or stay. This does not apply at least to kindergartens and schoolchildren. Therefore, we need to look at the premise for the operation of these. I've moved out a couple of the many important areas to hold on to the young people in the districts, because it's not just jobs and pathways that count. But all of this has to be conscious at all times, one has to know how to deal with it and sometimes strengthen the economy just in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e732	State councilman Enoksen told me in his reply that the Senter Party has not performed any reverse operations in the district policy. We have a lot of quotes, and I'm not going to repeat them all here, but the pile that proves this is big. I understand that it may be unpleasant to be confronted with previous statements, but I am surprised that the Council of State contests this. Not least the transfers to the municipalities are in proportion to what the Centre Party has previously said. And here's what the representative of Klungland said, that the Government and the Central Party had the opportunity to come to an agreement with the Workers' Party, and that would have given more money to the municipalities, but they chose to cooperate with the Right Party and the Advance Party. I must also say that it is not reassuring what the Council of State says, that he did not have time to talk about the municipalities in his statement, which lasted for approx. 50 minutes, when a person knows the importance of Municipality-Norway, also in relation to district and regional policy. I think that we have also been confirmed by the statements of the Council of State that, despite the large words about investing in the big district policy, it is the small one that is in practice. And for the districts, as for other parts of our country, it's the actions that count, and not the words. I actually mean – as the rest of my party – that order in the economy, a proper labour market policy, municipal economy, etc. is more important, and more focused, than the Government has so far provided by various district measures. I don't think the state council's posts today carry an offer for a new course of transition to the broad district policy, as it's claimed. I think that's disappointing. I was more uplifted after the presentation than I am after the intervention of the Council of State in this debate. I had hoped that the Senter party would now be in a more constructive direction, away from honorary words – to practical action, and that what is being said is actually being done. Let me also say about the debate on the relocation of state enterprises: I am familiar with one proposal put forward by the Government in this regard. It got a different exit, but one got a distribution with respect to all the states. Other emigrations such as the Council of State referred to in its presentation, applies to a large extent to enterprises which have moved out while the Workers' Party has had a government. I'm saying this because it's the actions that are crucial, not the principles. This applies to the whole of regional and regional policy. We are also willing to be involved in discussing the relocation of jobs in the future, but then we have to take that discussion on a case-by-case basis and not just talk a lot and talk a lot about it. I also want to say to the representative Tor Nymo, who says that we should stop criticising and rather stand together: yes, there were new notes from the Center Party. The Labour Party has tried it in this debate, we have remembered previous statements, but we have also said that we are pleased that there is now a different style from the Central Party than it has been before, and that we thought there was a new direction and greater opportunity to do something together in the future. I hope, despite being somewhat disappointed now, that it carries in the direction we want, and that it is possible to find cooperation for the benefit of the districts in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e747	I am going to have a debate on the premises that are really in the hands of the municipal minister, and not on the big district policy that is in other departments. There is no doubt that transport, agriculture and fisheries are very crucial. First, I have a specific question about a matter that the Council of State does not respond to in the statement, and it depends on the differentiated employer's fee. My question is: what strategy does the Government have for the communities that will be very hard hit if we lose the case at the court now? Does Government have a strategy? When I sit here listening, I hear that there is a touching consensus between the Workers' Party and the Centre on the need to improve the local economy. I'm joining 100 pst. to it. Then there was to be a quite broad, clear majority in the Chamber for that to happen, so I look with hope and consolation until the next budgetary procedure. I agree with the suggestion made by the municipal minister in his statement that what must be important is to facilitate freedom of choice, and that there are then many who will choose the good life, on the basis that they want to live in the districts. But then the municipal economy becomes quite important for them to see the possibility of doing so. I think someone has to bet on the good growth communities in the districts. There is a lot that makes people want the children to grow up in the districts, but the assumption is that school provision is good, that there is cultural provision for the children, and that there is reasonably useful communication in the regions. It's primarily about municipal economics, and it's promising. I want to ask if a small thing that I think was positive, but something unclear in the statement. In municipalities, there is a great deal of reorganisation in state agencies — leading to job losses in districts — as part of internal reorganisation, without social assessments being made. I am pleased that the Council of State has said that such reorganisations should be suspended until key guidelines are developed. But then he says something more: He says that it is important to maintain the level of service, among other things. through service offices. Then he says somewhere in the statement that he will instruct the individual agencies to invite the municipalities to cooperation solutions. He says elsewhere that it should be based on a local initiative. What does that mean? What are we going to do in the municipalities? Can we expect an initiative from the Equation Court, from the Social Security Court, to establish local service offices?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e762	Wake up with the honorary orders and move on to practical action," said the representative Brustad. Yes, I agree. But it does not deprive the Workers' Party of any responsibility in district policy in the last 15 years, because there has also been only a good word. We see the outcome of the Labour Party's district policy today. I want to relieve the government of the responsibility for the results we see out in the districts today, but Rome is not built on a year and a half. But I'd like to criticise and hold the Center Party accountable for regional policy issues. I have to say what we throngers would have said: I would have been ashamed if I had been a central party politician and had been talking about district policy. I come from the central part of the country, the North Trondelag, the poorest state in the whole country. It has been ruled by the Center Party at all municipal levels and at the county level at all times. No one is as poor as we are in the Nord-Trøndelag. And now we see it: only for the current year has the county sent back nine municipal budgets, because the central party in the different municipalities has set up increased revenues as they see that they cannot get, and shouts and screams for more money from the state, simply because they have increased the activity level in the municipalities over a long time so much that it may be twice as many inhabitants who live there. And when they come in such a situation as this, they cut down on the activities of the elderly, at school level and on the primary tasks. And then they scream for more money. And in Nord-Trøndelag, in the middle of the central part of the country, we are in front of Norway's largest industrial effort at all, with Norwegian Forest's plans. And then the Center Party says no, we're not going to have any of that, because it saves jobs to 2,000 and 3,000 people. It's district bet. But that's what the Center Party says no. Why Do People Move From Districts? It's no wonder that 80 pst. Norway’s population says yes to more transfers to the municipalities, when the municipalities are shaken by central party policy, when the municipalities have to rationalise and remove the offers to the inhabitants because they have shaken the municipalities. Obviously, humans are moving from places like that. Older people also want more in transfers. No, like I said, I would have been ashamed. The party of progress has no credibility, is a replay. No, why should we have it? We have no responsibility for any of this. [[The President clubs.]] But at least one thing is certain: North-Trundellag, and only Outer Namdal, has a value creation of 500 million. kr. The state leaves with 70 pst. [[The President clubs again.]] of it. The progress party will leave some of the value creation behind in Outer Namdal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e775	The President will remind you that speaking time is 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e778	I asked for the floor now to miss out on some signals regarding the proposals we have made. It is the only concrete proposals that are available today, and I perceived the Council of State so that he was positive to them. How we're going to handle them in the hall today is a little bit dependent on whether we get signals about it. After listening to the debate, I would be very surprised if there was not a relatively broad majority who could at least imagine looking into these proposals. At the same time, I might be able to use the opportunity to ask the Workers' Party a specific question, because I'm a little confused about what they really think about government localization policy, based on the contributions they've made today. I think it is very positive that the Government says that they want to develop guidelines for a government localisation policy and get district considerations into this as well. These are some of the extensive grips that the Workers' Party also says they agree with. I don't think there's anyone who thinks that the district issue should be the only consideration to count, but it has to be one of the reasons that counts, and sometimes it has to count heavily. There are a number of establishments mentioned in the statement. There are other bodies, such as the customs office, which are now also performing rationalisation, and which will mean the transfer of competences, for example. from Hedmark to central strike. I think it's positive if the Government wants to look at it, and look at the possibility of using new technologies to carry out administrative tasks elsewhere than in the most central areas. That would be possible, and I hope that the Workers' Party could give a little more positive signals that they actually also want to use the localization policy actively. So at the end of this debate on the local economy: it's the way we want to get rid of all these repetitions about what the Central Party did years ago, what the Workers' Party said, who was best last year, etc. If the signals are now clear that the local economy should be strengthened – and they should think so, for example. The last report from Econ, which says that the situation in the local economy has not been so bad since the late 1980s – and in addition, all the major, heavy reforms are wanted, because it is a broad majority for – I believe it is even unanimous in the Storting on that – one must say that now we are entering and strengthening the local economy. And we don't have to wait that long. The municipal economic proposition will come in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e791	District and population development are both parts of things that take time to turn around and change. The situation is now a result of the Labour Party's policy in the last ten years. Population development and district development is a slow train to both brush and change the speed. A debate like this will, of course, include some criticism, and there should also be some self-criticism. When we include: says that culture means a lot, so I think one should look at what we've done with culture in the last few years when it comes to integrating both the urban culture, which, not least, the Workers' Party in my own county talks a lot about the day, and the local and local culture. It's not just criticizing, for example. The party of progress that you don't want any culture. As regards the economy, Brustad says that the Workers' Party should be contacted to find a much better local economy in 1999. That was not the big difference in the offer from the Workers' Party when it came to the framework of municipal economy for 1999, and what the Government put forward, if one starts to calculate and look at what one was compared to the other. What was the big problem was that the Workers' Party was not advocating because they kept cash support in front of them as a shield and a shield to avoid at all getting into a dialogue on local economy at the last budgetary procedure. The 1999 derogation year is not one that has anything to boast about the local economy. I have to agree with Brustad that order in the economy and some such things are important now, and we have started to get that. The interest rate is going in the right direction, we still have a good job, and we think it should be maintained. Then we expect that there might be a joint effort to achieve a better municipal economy in 2000, such as the centre parties, and not least the centre party, in 1996, when we took the municipal economy on our backs and got it better. So a little bit to Torny Pedersen, who says that, among other things. Robbery policy has a lot to say for the districts. Yes, it does, but the predatory policy and the administrative regime that we have today is the Workers' Party that has led up to it. Both predatory messages were presented by labor party governments, and they got what they wanted by a majority here in the hall, against, among other things. The votes of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e802	There are some questions that I can try to answer in conclusion. First of all, the question of a differentiated employer’s fee. It is expected that the case of a differentiated employer’s fee will be decided by the EFTA Court before the summer of 1999. If Norway were to lose the case against ESA, Norway would be obliged to comply with the ESA’s decision, i.e. that the large-scale differentiated pay-as-you-go scheme can be continued, but that some industries have to pay a full rate – 14,1 pst. – wherever these industries are located in the country. This is the premise, and it also requires Norway to notify a scope of the employer’s fee. Some industries are affected, including shipbuilding, mining, energy production, telecommunications, major transport companies and banks with international operations. The Ministry is now working to identify the impact on the industries concerned if Norway loses. However, it is our view that the geographically differentiated employer charge is part of the general tax system and is therefore not affected by the State aid rules in the EEA territory. In any case, the Government proposes that the scope of a reduced employer’s fee should be revised, regardless of the outcome of the court proceedings, with effect from 1 January 2000. It's hard to go a little further into this right now. The representative of Holand asked about the organisation of the state sector. This is one of the major issues I have touched on in my presentation, which I also touched on in my article today. It is absolutely central that you have a policy to ensure that the service functions are as good no matter where you are in the country. We see that there is a pressure to improve efficiency, and some of this is probably necessary and proper to implement. What's a point, though, is you have to try to think completely. Consideration must be given to the possibility of assigning tasks to the areas and municipalities affected. It is also necessary to see this in the context of the establishment of a service office, which is also provided by SV in its proposal. And the government is now working on finding the right incentives and the right ways to set up service offices, so that you can gather the government public services within the service offices. So proposal No. 3, from SV, it would be natural to assess in the context of the establishment of a service office. It is a little difficult to say exactly how the other proposals will be implemented, but the Government has stressed that some municipalities and counties should be allowed to try out with a greater degree of freedom compared to framework appropriations. Attempts to increase the freedom of the labour market seat to use their resources in bet areas have not been discussed in this context. Finally, I would like to say that I think we have had a good debate today. I do not think that is the basis for the very big disagreement about the way forward in district policy. It is necessary to focus on the broad rural policy, where economic policy is to be central, where the need to establish jobs and reduce interest rates is crucial. But it is also necessary to be focused on the narrow district policy, which I have spent time saying something about today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e815	Just a few words at the bottom of what I would call a positive debate. The positive thing is that in today’s debate, the vast majority of the parties on the Grand Duchy have expressed concern about the pattern of relocation and the strong increase in the number of relocations that one has seen in the 1990s. Then I find it nice to record that there are obviously great expectations for the Center Party and for the Center Government. This must be the case as a expected dramatic change in the pattern of residence already after one and a half years of activity. Now I think one should be careful about adding too much to the changes in the moving numbers from year to year. But if you're going to do that first, I would also like to say that what has been claimed by some in the recent district policy debate, namely that the movement flow has almost become stronger during the central government, is a positive error. It turns out that 1997, i.e. the last year of the Workers' Party's government, is guaranteed to be the worst moving year in the 1990s. Almost all peripheral areas in different parts of the country have had a lower net relocation in 1998 than in 1997. But as I said, I don't want to say that this is because of the central government. But when you first start popping on the numbers, I have to be allowed to tell you about this. So a few words about the so-called narrow and broad district policy: to take the narrow first, it is documented, and it has also been said by the Council of State in its intervention here today, that what is happening in the current year with regard to the direct instruments of district policy is that this year the biggest take-up in the 1990s has taken place through this part of district policy. Now let's be clear! It can be documented from all budget figures. And then a little bit about the broad district policy, which is given considerable attention, among other things. in the Adultåsen document. In order to deal with agricultural policy, which is of course very important: this government actually made an agreement, and then we felt that the Workers' Party – of all – was the party that tried to to torpegate a positive agricultural agreement. It was the contribution of the Workers' Party. When we tried to move out state jobs, who torpedoed it? Yes, the Workers' Party did! As far as energy policy is concerned, the Government has provided signs of so-called excise duty, which will provide significant relief in the expenditure of districts. And when we also take into account that one through economic policy has the power to bring down interest rates faster than anyone had thought, this is also evidence that, just as far as the broad district policy is concerned, the government has succeeded well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e828	Sylvia Brustad has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e831	I'm not going to extend the debate on when most people move from the districts. But the point is that the center part gave the impression, while we had the government, that it was almost just pinching your fingers, so the moving power was going to turn around. When the Center Party then came to government, it turned out that the world is not quite that simple. I'm glad, as I've said here, that the Center Party has now taken inwards that it's not as simple as it looked when they were in opposition. I don't think anyone should be surprised that you're being confronted with what someone in the past has said, and what one actually does. But if you put the rhetoric aside, I think the Workers' Party and the Centre agree on a lot about district and regional policy. I think it's a lot like one could get in common in the future, but then it requires all parties to put some of the rhetoric aside. That's what I think has been the main problem with the Center Party so far. There are some areas where we distinguish layers, but I think we agree on the main part of regional and regional policy. So if we could agree that that's what we're working for, I think we could get there, instead of just going to hit each other in the head with numbers, and so on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e839	I think the representative Brustad had good intentions as she expressed that it was now a good idea to put away the rhetoric. She said that after she had documented to the world that there is something the representative Brustad can do, it is the rhetorical part of the debate. She claimed that the Senterpartiet in the previous period said – I quote from memory – that only by ‘tipping’ would one turn the movement flow. I'm sorry, but I expect that what would have been a striking expression of that statement, probably will be clubbed down, but it's the mildest thing to say that someone seriously believes that it's so easy to change and reverse the movement flow. But I was a little surprised when the representative Brustad took the floor, that she did not comment that I took up the area of the so-called broad or large district policy and documented that the Government has taken new steps in agricultural policy, where the Workers' Party tried to prevent an acceptable agricultural agreement, and where the Workers' Party tried to prevent the first concrete attempts at the relocation of state jobs. But let me go over to a slightly more amicable rental, because in the case of e.g.. In fact, the fisheries policy and the perspective message presented by the Council of State Angelsen experienced in Stortinget that, fortunately, these lines were supported. And it has to be taken into account that this support actually came from the Workers' Party – just so it has been said. And then I want to say the following in terms of energy policy: in the energy message that is now in the Storting, the Government has taken a very important step and given a clear signal on this as I mentioned about point tariffs, because it will mean a substantial relief in the energy costs of the districts. It is a bit embarrassing to have to terpee on this, but when more from the Workers' Party claim that this government has failed in terms of the broad district policy, it is actually a positive mistake. And we can prove from the budget that in terms of direct regional policy instruments, the 1999 effort is the highest in this sector since 1991. It is only my tranny modesty that forbids me to tell who was the municipal minister when the 1991 budget was presented.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e850	The President would say that 'noise' is not a parliamentary expression either.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e853	I would like to make a small visit to the local councilman on the basis of his statement on this with a differentiated employer's fee. What is known is that it constitutes formidable sums. If we take Finnmark and Nord-Troms, which have zero, it represents for this area approximately. $800 million. kr. If we take Nordland and the rest of Troms, which has a rate of 13.4 p.m., I think, but it's not that important, it's about. SEK 2.2 billion. For Trøndelag and Møre, it amounts to, as far as I remember, NOK 1.3 billion. This is formidable sums. Yesterday we had a Schengen debate where we got a number of insurances, and so did we when it came to the EU – that we should be able to keep the rates we had before. This was no doubt about it, it was a very clear insurance. Now we know that the case has ended in court, and I think I can say the outcome of it, namely that we can't keep the rates. That is why I ask the Minister of State: is there a pattern in this case of insurance in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e860	I was unable to resist the temptation in relation to what Johan J. Jakobsen said about whether it would be possible to cut my fingers and get rid of the district problem. But it's not to hide that it was suggested some – in our opinion – easy solutions to how to deal with the problems of district policy. When we debated a similar statement in 1998, the then member of the Municipal Committee, Morten Lund, said: ‘Something is going on, and I’m not in doubt that it’s useful to reverse the movement flow for the benefit of those living in the districts,...’» In particular, he mentioned the Prime Minister's New Year speech as significant in order to reverse the movement flow. Now the Prime Minister has not only held one, but two new years. I am absolutely sure that both the Center Party and Morten Lund believe that this is not enough. So we can say that the numbers have gotten a little bit better in terms of the movement rate, and that's positive, but part of the reason why the numbers have evolved as they have is the labour market. There is no doubt that with strong pressure on jobs in large regions, people will move, and that situation we no longer have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e872	It was actually the Center Party's Johan J. Jakobsen who made me take the floor, and with my false modesty as mountain people I had to do it. In fact, I think he allows himself the same curvatures as he did in the Schengen debate yesterday, where he tried to tell the Chamber here about the Central Party's national meeting decisions in relation to the Central Party in government, and so does he now. The central part of the government has discovered the reality, and the central part of the hall is trying to tell something else. That's what they're doing. The broad bet that the Center Party said the municipalities would get is not coming, because now they have entered the real world. That's the way Jacobsen is, and you must bow to that too! As I said in my post, the operating performance in the municipal sector is impaired, and this shows the technical calculation committee. This is the worst development in the municipal sector since 1986. As your colleague from the Promskrittspartiet in Nord-Trøndelag said, the Centerpartiet has been in government for a year and a half. It is possible that Rome was not built in a year and a half, but we should see the results of the Central Party's policy in the Government, and especially when the Central Party has the Council of State in this important area. So Johan J. Jakobsen should at least tighten up, and he does not need to use the same tricks he used in the Schengen debate yesterday, where he tried to get people in this room to believe that the Central Party at the national meeting had gone in order for the Government to leave if they did not accept Schengen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e879	The President would like to remind you that all speeches have to be made via the President – even though it is now a long time in the evening.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e882	Several newspapers today have noted that the representative Johan J. Jakobsen in yesterday's Schengen debate appeared with an offensive attitude towards a bad case. He has done so here tonight as well, and probably extended the debate by a few minutes. When he says that the Central Party has not provided for simple solutions in district policy, and that they have not changed the line, I have to say that it surprises me. I would therefore like to remind you of the formulation that the Central Party had on district policy in 1997, where it did so in Innst. S. No 242 for 1996-97 stated: ‘The objective of regional and regional policy is to facilitate the maintenance of the population in all municipalities.’ One of the things that the municipal minister has been praised for in relation to the statement is that he has had a retreat in relation to this wording. But more importantly, the Central Party then provided very simple explanations as to the causes of the problems in the districts: ‘These members’ – i.e. from the Central Party – ‘will claim that the reinforced movement flow is the result of a planned and wanted policy from the Labour Party, Right and Advance Party parties. These batches are responsible for both the remoteness problems and the pressure problems experienced in many centres and cities today.’» I'm glad the Center Party no longer stands for such simple explanation models, but it's strange that Johan J. Jakobsen has such a bad memory.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e897	Johan J. Jakobsen has had the word twice, and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e900	It shall be the shortest note of the evening. I just want to correct or supplement the picture of yesterday's debate, as the latter mentioned. But what was said about me in the debate yesterday made a much stronger impression on me. It was noted that I had an offensive attitude, but personally I greatly appreciated the fact that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee almost proposed that Jacobsen should receive the Medal of Braveness. That is what I remember best from yesterday's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e905	Jacobsen's crunch on this pulpit might well qualify for many kinds of medals, not necessarily just the bravery medal. He showed in a previous post that the Workers' Party was in the process of torturing the agricultural agreement, and said nothing more about it. It is clear that when the central government negotiated an agreement based on completely different principles than those on which previous agricultural agreements were based, the Labour Party raises a question. In particular, without having a previous debate on the principles of our tax policy, it was accepted that the investment tax on agriculture should be removed, which was an entirely new element of this agreement. Then he shows that we have criticized the energy message, as the government has recently presented. We have not done that, we have not said a word about the energy message. What we've been criticising is the proposition of industrial power agreements, and that's, as Jacobsen probably knows, a completely different matter. Indeed, there is no doubt that the proposition presented on the industrial power agreements on which large parts of the industry in District Norway are based is a conversion or winding-up proposition. You have started with a coverage of 70 pst, which over a few years is going to be reduced by 40 pst, corresponding to 28 pst. coverage of industrial activities. It's a closure of the industry along our long-distance coast.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e914	No more people have asked for the floor in case No. Eight. [[Food, see page 2939]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e928	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 2939]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e944	The fact that China, in the range of countries with extensive human rights violations, is being selected as a theme for a debate on the human rights situation in the country in the form of an interpellation by the undersigned is multiple. In this context, I would like to highlight the following: 1st@item: inlistbox This is about the world's richest countries, so that quantitatively this applies to more people than in any other country.2. China is one of the five permanent members of the UN Security Council and has special interest in this way, among other things. by virtue of their right to veto. China alone plays a central role in international policy.3. China suffers a brutal repression of Tibet, which is claimed to have worsened in 1998. In particular, reference is made to the religious repression, including torture, killing and arrest of religiously active people.4. The dictatorship in China blocks the access of the democratic state of Taiwan to the world society. Taiwan, for example, is excluded from the World Health Organisation. China went to the dramatic step of vetoing the extension of the mandate of the United Nations forces in Macedonia because Macedonia recognised Taiwan as an independent country. For Norway, it should be a cross of thought that Taiwan, next to Japan, is Norway’s largest trading partner in Asia. 5th@item: inlistbox The criticism from some teams against the low profile in relation to China in the form of the ‘dialogue line’ is partly due to the fact that it does not work and that a more offensive line is needed with, for example, the ‘dialogue line’. public criticism in the form of a resolution of the United Nations on-going Human Rights Commission in Geneva. Even within the EU, which, after internal discussion, decided not to co-appropriate a resolution, it has emerged that neither the development of human rights in China nor the dialogue itself is satisfactory. Although the country on the positive side has signed two UN conventions, among others: on political and civil rights, the criticism that this has not been followed up by improving the situation of its citizens. Examples mentioned here are the relationship of dissidents, the lack of transparency, the poor development of the rule of law in the form of a lack of consistency between punishment and crime. 6th@item: inlistbox While the general assessment of the position of human rights in the world is claimed to have been improved overall, for example. the number of democracies since the fall of the Berlin Wall has increased from 66 to 117 in less than 10 years, points out from a number of international teams that the situation in China deteriorated significantly in the second half of 1998. Although the Chinese have given their citizens a greater degree of influence and in terms of their economic options, this has not been followed up accordingly with regard to democratic rights.7. Moments mentioned in this way are the lack of right to form parties, assembly rights and the long penalties against civil rights activists. From an international point of view, it is important that the situation is radically exacerbated by the fact that organised political opposition activities have been severely reduced by the Chinese side. This also applies in particular to extensive attacks on freedom of expression. That's why I have, with the background of the government's high-profile line – and the government is to be praised for leading such a line – as an essential player in helping to awaken the world's conscience regarding the position of human rights in the world, asking for clarification of what the Government's strategy is in this area in relation to China. The argument in the Norwegian debate that what I want to call a low profile, the so-called dialogue line, in the human rights critique of China, has been of the kind of argument that this gives better results than public criticism, that it is important that the Chinese should not lose face, that there are special 'Asian values' that are different from our own, that the country should not be too hard on the toes because it is the world's potentially largest trading partner and so on. However, if one cannot demonstrate that the dialogue line without public criticism produces results, one can easily be accused of double standards in relation to the exposure to human rights: 1st@item: inlistbox It bases its human rights exposure on the seventh and last of purely financial interests, read: national self-interests.2. The main criticisms are those countries which are weak and which are unproblematic to criticise internationally.3. But don't you dare throw yourself at the bad guys in the street.4. Racism is committed because human rights are not accorded the same value to Asians as to Europeans.5. For historical and ideological reasons, there is great sympathy for China and, therefore, there is an inherent tendency not to assess the country on the basis of the same criteria as other countries. Moreover, Norway’s position in today’s discussion is particularly interesting because this year the EU and the United States have chosen a different line in the UN Commission on Human Rights on the issue of China should be criticised in the form of a resolution or not. The United States chose not to criticise the Chinese in the form of a resolution last year, but has come to the conclusion that this is necessary this year. The position of the Progress Party is that the world community, including Norway, should take the magazine from the mouth and show the Chinese clearly that the development of human rights in China is not satisfactory. Therefore, at my discretion, the Government should support a public criticism in the form of the previously mentioned resolution of the UN Commission on Human Rights, so that we publicly give moral support to the dissidents in China, to the Tibetans, to Taiwan, and show that we too dare to take the magazine from the mouth in terms of the strongest of the world society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1002	The representative Danielsen has as his starting point that there has been no significant progress in the field of humanity in China. There's enough room for different assessments here. In the world's richest countries, with nearly 1.3 billion inhabitants, I think it's wise to assume that the picture is complex. We see both positive and negative developments. The years of the lives of the population of China have changed significantly over the last 20 years. I think it's coverage to say that never more people have improved their economic and social condition so much in as short a time as just in China. Let's have this with us when we put the spotlight on the human rights situation in this huge country. There are also other trends in a positive direction. China signed the UN Convention on Social, Economic and Cultural Rights in 1997 and the Convention on Civil and Political Rights last October, to which Mr Danielsen referred. This must be seen as an expression of the political will to improve the condition of human rights in the country. It is important, however, that the conventions be ratified as soon as possible and that they be complied with. We have said this both directly to China and in multilateral forums. In addition, it is worth noting that the Chinese authorities are in the process of implementing far-reaching reforms in the state apparatus and in the judiciary, in the fight against corruption and abuse of power as the main areas of activity. In this regard, let me mention an important decision that was taken last month at this year's session at the People's Congress, as a constitutional decree that China should be governed by law. This may not sound so alarming, but the decision provides a constitutional basis for the phase-out of a centuries-long management system. This system has hindered the establishment of the rule of law and the promotion of human rights. The Constitution now clearly states that the exercise of power shall be governed by law. It's an important step, although it doesn't mean that China is a state of law in our sense. For example, the Courts will: remain subject to the Communist Party. However, people targeted for crimes are now given access to a lawyer at an earlier time in criminal proceedings. Decisions to make legal proceedings more public and to make the public aware of the issues being dealt with have also been taken, particularly in the larger cities. These are measures that help to improve the otherwise weak legal security in China. At the same time, the government is concerned about several negative developments in China. The setback we experienced in the trial against Xu Wenli and the other founders of the Chinese Democratic Party last fall was serious. It showed that China still has a lot to do to strengthen legal certainty. The closest course trial broke with the new practice. The continued widespread use of the death penalty is also very worrying. The same is true of the situation in Tibet, where there is a lack of respect for the cultural, religious and ethnic identity of Tibetans. As far as Tibet is concerned, it is, in my view, necessary for the Chinese authorities to find a solution to the problems with the Dalai Lama. From the Norwegian side, therefore, we have repeatedly called on the Chinese authorities to engage in dialogue with the Dalai Lama and to promote greater respect for the ethnic, cultural and religious identity of the Tibetans. The Dalai Lama is a moderating factor in the conflict in Tibet. So it should be in Chinese interest to negotiate with him. Some Tibetans in exile, especially among young people, are starting to question the non-violence line. This will include, inter alia: expressed in these days in Geneva, where two members of the Tibetan Youth Congress and an older former prisoner of conscience hunger striker protest against the situation. The government is working both bilaterally and multilaterally to influence Chinese authorities to improve the human rights situation in those areas that we find most critical. As the representative Danielsen knows, human rights are always a topic of political conversation with Chinese representatives. Last, this was the case during the Prime Minister's and my own talks with China's Foreign Minister Tang during his visit to Norway last month. In recent years, Norway has been at the heart of the initiative of western countries to involve Chinese authorities in a political dialogue on human rights. This dialogue began in 1993. I myself conducted the Norwegian delegation for round table talks on the state of justice in Beijing last June. Several Western countries have also established a similar dialogue with China. We also keep in touch with like-minded countries, such as the United States and Japan. The EU and Canada, in the development of this cooperation. This year’s round table on human rights — the third in the series — takes place in Oslo in June. The dialogue has been gradually broadened in scope and depth and takes place at both political, office and expert level in the context of visit exchanges, seminars and round table conferences. It has initially focused on the rule of law. The main themes of this year’s round table are freedom of expression, freedom of religion and professional rights. A new theme will also be introduced, namely the role of non-governmental organisations. The aim is always to help improve the situation where there is a serious and persistent lack of respect for human rights. It is my opinion that our human rights dialogue with China has been and is a contribution to a more positive development in important areas of importance for the protection of human rights, just in China. I therefore look forward again to leading the Norwegian delegation to these discussions. We have made it clear to the Chinese authorities that, on the Norwegian side, we see bilateral and multilateral forums as complementary arenas for international cooperation, including in the field of human rights. In this regard, let me mention that in a main post during the ongoing session of the UN Commission on Human Rights in Geneva, Norway addressed negative developments in China. In particular, the estimates made late last year against political dissidents are based on long prison sentences. We also discussed the continued widespread use of the death penalty and the situation in Tibet. Norway voted to deal with the China resolution to which the representative Danielsen refers. It has already been treated. However, the proposal was put to the vote and therefore the resolution was never put to the vote. Norway’s work on respect for human rights needs to be measured by results. The years we have had a dialogue with China have been years of success for the human rights of the country. This is not Norway's profit, but it makes me more sure that we contribute to strengthening the positive forces in the country through our active involvement. Let me therefore conclude by stressing that the human rights situation in China shows both positive and negative developments, as I said in the introduction. However, over time — with some quite clear and alarming exceptions that we should not fail to address — development has, after all, gone in the right direction. From the Norwegian side, we will continue to work to improve the human rights situation in China, with the instruments we believe will have the greatest impact on the country's authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1042	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Vollebæk, for his presentation. I would first like to say that I fully agree with the Secretary of State's description that the picture here is complex. I also agree that in many areas of China, and especially in economics, it is quite obvious that there has been considerable progress. Of course, the fact that conventions have been signed is positive, but the decisive test will be whether these are ratified, as I expect them to be, but even more important if they are complied with by China. What's going on here is the way it works. I think it is positive that Norway takes the position that it insists that criticism be made both bilaterally and multilaterally, and does not accept China's position that it must be either bilaterally or multilaterally. And of course, I fully understand that you always have to understand a country from the historical and cultural background of the country, so there are many things that can't be done here overnight. But what is crucial to me, and which makes me think that in the current situation too, we should go in to promote such a resolution, is that, in my opinion, it is absolutely essential that the dissidents are told that they are not alone, but that they have broad international support, and that this is clearly expressed to the public. Finally, I have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs: can the Minister try to be more precise on what he thinks is necessary in order for Norway to change the line on this issue and go into the line that the Americans have taken, which goes with a more public criticism, and then in a form of resolution, as recommended by the United States?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1053	Let me first say that it is my understanding that the representative Danielsen and I do not disagree so much about the need to continue working to improve human rights in China, but we may disagree on the exact form of this commitment. With regard to his last question about what is going on in order to promote a resolution in the UN Commission on Human Rights, I showed in my speech that this American resolution has already come up to so-called "no exercise", or non-treatment – if you can say so – and that the Human Rights Commission in Geneva then decided by 22 votes not to deal with this motion for a resolution by the Americans. It happened on April 23rd. 17 countries, among them Norway, voted against the non-treatment proposal and 14 countries abstained. And so this case is out of the world for this session. We've seen this repeatedly. I think it was also some of the reasons why last year the United States chose not to promote such a resolution, because both the United States, Norway and the EU have seen it as negative rather than positive that proposals are presented which then do not even appear to have a majority in favour of treatment in the Human Rights Commission. It might give the impression that we don't care about human rights and so on actually also have a negative effect on the opposition and those who fight for human rights in China. Therefore, Norway also found this year that we would not be co-sponsors. But, of course, we have voted in favour, as I said, of the resolution coming up for a substantive debate, because we think it is wrong that we should not have such a resolution on the table at all. In the situation we are facing today in the Human Rights Commission, I do not think it is realistic that these kinds of resolutions are gaining ground. Then this becomes a kind of demonstration policy, with which neither human rights in general nor opposition nor human rights champions in China are served. And then it becomes more important that we use our posts in the Human Rights Commission – we have done that, we have had a clear speech in the so-called Land Entry into the Human Rights Commission – and in addition to that, our active dialogue with China continues.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1062	It is important to put human rights on the agenda, as the representative Danielsen here does. That's good. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply, which I think shows how difficult the human rights situation is in China, and at the same time it also shows that the Government is following this very closely. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that, in relation to the Chinese authorities, we base a consideration of the human rights situation that sees the evolution over time. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, there have been significant changes in China in recent years. More and more people have improved living conditions, and China has signed several UN conventions, although these have not been ratified, and the authorities have initiated reforms of different kinds. In the United Nations and other international organisations, human rights are increasingly placed on the agenda. While we're going to take this positive development that, after all, is going on, I'm still going to express concern about the human rights in China and mention Tibet in particular in this context. The situation of the Tibetans is worrying. I am pleased with the foreign minister's assurances that the Chinese authorities will hear what we think about this, namely that respect for the Tibetan cultural and religious nature must be required. The non-violent strategy of the Tibetans must be supported, and dialogue with the Dalai Lama must be encouraged. Improvements in human rights are often achieved more through dialogue than through boycott and exclusion. Here we have to consider the situation of individual countries, and in the case of China, see the process that, after all, is going on for more transparency. I encourage the Government to continue to use every opportunity to address human rights issues in its conversations with Chinese authorities. Beijing's position in Tibet is still based on military presence. We know that a lot of Tibetan culture is shattered, and many can testify to the tension between the Chinese authorities and the Tibetans, not least because of movements of ethnic Chinese to Tibetan territories. The issue of human rights has gained more and more space in international policy, and this has led to increasing involvement also in the conflict over Tibet on the West side. There are widespread violations of fundamental human rights when a people's group is oppressed, as we see in Tibet. Also, the violation of freedom of faith is a violation of human rights, and such abuses must also be brought to light, as Danielsen's representative was. Several housing managers have been arrested last year and subjected to violent interrogations. They are then subjected to a terrible torture. It is important to cooperate with human rights environments, including: voluntary organisations, on the establishment of a country governed by law and the development of local self-government. It is positive that the use of the death penalty and long prison sentences against political dissidents have been addressed by Norway. Here, too, China has a long way to go in relation to human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1081	I agree with the interpellant on the essential point he made, namely the need to improve the human rights situation in China. What we are facing is probably a debate on method. We have a very short history of relatively normal contact with China, and that after a long, long period of isolation. Logically, it means that our knowledge of China's diversity is still quite incomplete. It's a huge country, to which the interpellant himself pointed, and just providing food and housing for the population as a whole requires an organization and logistics that we're totally unknown to. I'm not saying this for anything but just to mark what a huge country we're facing. I would also like to point out that this 'we know best' attitude on the part of the West can have its constraint. Also with us, the attitude toward what is a humane existence has changed as social and economic development progresses. We must respect the fact that other countries can have different traditions, different solutions and different priorities than what we immediately consider to be the ideal. However, what can be expected and required is that recognised and internationally binding human rights are respected. In addition to the 1990s, Norway has made considerable efforts to involve the Chinese authorities in a political dialogue on human rights, and human rights issues are on the agenda in almost all contexts where Norway and China meet in some form or other. China is not a country you instruct. Contact and dialogue are sought for common development and understanding, but this does not mean that Norway is celebrating away from the key human rights issues. In the UN General Assembly, in the UN Human Rights Commission and other key forums, Norwegian representatives have addressed the human rights situation in China. Dialogue is probably the model of constantly improving conditions around the world, and we are now seeing actual improvements in most areas also in China. But it's a long way to think about it as a state of law according to our content of the term. But of course it also takes a long time to build up a state of law. Isolation and bastant reactions in all contexts may not be what gives the best effect, but it can give us a sense that we're consistent with our ideals. And of course, it's not a bad feeling, but it's not certain that it leads to what we hope for. And the effort, as the Foreign Minister said, can best be measured in the results we actually achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1094	In a telegram on a big and exciting and complicated theme, let me start by saying that it is not difficult to find critical relationships in China, including the conditions in Tibet. It is tragic, in the very moderate position of the Dalai Lama, that the Chinese authorities cannot find a solution that fully respects the religious, cultural and ethnic peculiarities of Tibet and thus gives it extensive autonomy. It is also not difficult to identify gaps in legislation, in the widespread use of the death penalty, etc. But it's incredibly pointless to forget that never have so many Chinese had it so well. The basic needs have been met in a very unique way from a few years ago. And what has been hosting China over millennia – famine – is non-existent, even under flood disasters. It is actually the law today to criticise social relations in China and to bring about reforms, but it is the organized opposition to the Communist Party that is not allowed, and we regret that, of course. At the same time, however, we should not forget that elections at local level are permitted today and that they are being experimented further with these possibilities. What's particularly exciting is to look at this in a slightly larger perspective, among other things. through the discussion on Asian values in relation to Western human rights. There have been leaders in Asia, not least senior minister Lee Kuan Yew in Singapore and Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad in Malaysia, who have long called for Asian values to be predominantly western, and they have argued that only prosperity, medicine, etc. would satisfy the population. What we have seen in the context of the Asian crisis is precisely that the humanistic values are something that the Asian people are also striving for, and consequently that human rights have universal significance. What should be our measure when we evaluate countries, including China, is not least whether development is going in the right direction or whether it is going in the wrong direction. And we should take that inward, that evolution has largely gone in the right direction despite some relapses. And no one will be served with a China in disintegration, with internal unrest – not to say civil war. It would neither serve the Chinese population nor the rest of the world. That is why I fully support the Foreign Minister's set of instruments to influence the situation in China.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1107	The Interpellant claims that no significant progress has been made in respect of human rights in China. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said that it is possible to see this differently. I'll be far more direct. In my opinion, this is a total lack of history. The truth is the opposite, that at no time in all of China's history has human rights been as much respected as the situation is now. That doesn't mean that everything is perfect and that we don't have to criticize many things. China has a population greater than the total population of Europe and Africa. And if we just took this century – not all of China’s history, but only this century – it was in the first half of this century in China a constant civil war with unimaginable abuses and atrocities. Then came the great leap where 20-30 million people – some claim 40 million people – starved to death as a result of a senseless policy, and where it was connected with the absolute death hazard to express the slightest little criticism of the Communist Party and Mao Tse-tung. Then came the Cultural Revolution with at least hundreds of thousands of dead and an unimaginable destruction of the country's cultural and spiritual life, not least in Tibet, of which the interpellant is concerned. And so the last 20 years have been a single continuous period of economic and social progress – life expectancy in Shanghai is now longer than in New York – but also in the field of human rights and politics. It's much easier to talk freely in China today than it's ever been in that country. People talk freely. No one is really afraid to say his opinion, at least not other than far out on the outskirts. Literature that is strongly critical of the lot is circulated. Access to a wide range of critical information is open. What is difficult or impossible is to organise an alternative party. And there's a clear violation of human rights, especially cultural rights in Tibet. But we can't mix lobster and canari here. Never has it been as free in China as it is today. So what's the dilemma of Chinese management, as I see it? It's obsessed with two things: it will keep China together, cost what it will cost. And it will make China strong through a dramatic economic progress. I don't think Chinese leadership is against democracy or human rights, but democracy and human rights are subordinate to them to this overall perspective: at the moment of China disintegrating, all human rights disappear, and there will be civil war. China's history is full of such examples of destruction. Therefore, the only meaningful policy for us – when we are going to engage in a dialogue and criticise human rights violations in China – is to address this dilemma and discuss how human rights can gradually be established and strengthened in China, but within a framework where China is kept consistent.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1122	The regulatory time for today's meeting is running out. The President will propose that the meeting be extended until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1126	I thank you for some interesting and positive posts. It is true, as the representative Scarbøvik stresses, that the living conditions have been significantly improved. I fully agree with that, and you should not underestimate the significance of that. At the same time, however, we must also stress that, after all, living conditions are not human rights. The representative of the Engretsen stated that there is a disagreement about the methods, but that we largely agree with the description of the situation, and that is also my assessment. I also agree that one should be careful to apply the best-position towards China, as against all other countries. But at the same time, I would like to give the warning that the US Secretary of State Warren Christopher did in his time that one must not go so far as to allow cultural relativism to be the last hiding place for oppression. But other countries must of course be able to have other solutions. Shaastad indicated that there are even local elections in China today. That's where my information -- I hope someone will correct me if I'm wrong -- that in the new law it's decided that the Communist Party should be the state-supporting party, so that these elections are limited. I can agree that developments have largely gone in the right direction, but at the same time we need to be aware that the Chinese leaders, such as the Chinese leaders, have gone in the right direction. Li Peng, says, "There will never be any free elections in China." I agree with Mr Solheim that the worst thing that can happen in China is that the country is going to break up, and if there is a full civil war, nothing can be worse for human rights than that, but I do not think that promoting a resolution in the UN Commission on Human Rights will contribute to such a development. When I talk about the evolution of human rights, whether it has improved or worsened if you compare it with all the scandals and gross abuses that have been in China, the situation today is, of course, much better than it has been in the past. However, there are time perspective issues. For example, the EU countries have: in all the years since 1989, it has well, criticised China and made motions for resolutions on China's criticism. 1998 was the year of the derogation, which did not go into this line. So that's where the shades of this debate go.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1139	I would also like to thank you for the debate. It is important that human rights are put in focus. It is also important that, from time to time, we address the individual countries with which the Government has a dialogue — or not to say Norway has a dialogue — because we have been aiming and focusing on China, to have a wide-ranging delegation to these round table discussions, precisely to involve different sectors of society. The representative of Shaastad pointed out that the direction is important, and I think that is a central point of view in this debate. I think it is also important when we look at the individual countries. This may be why we react differently to different countries. If, although we are not satisfied, we see that there is a positive movement, we may have a somewhat different attitude and tone in our conversations than if we suddenly see a country turning around and doing reverses, as we do, for example. has seen a country like Burma. That is why it is important that we follow closely the developments that are taking place, and I think we can do that not least through the bilateral dialogue, because, as I said, we come in close contact with different social institutions, and we also have a somewhat closer contact because there is a link. It has been very interesting to see the follow-up from my first round table talks in China and until today, where a number of Norwegian prominent representatives, with the Supreme Justice at the head, have visited China and linked contacts, and how, after the reports we have received back, they have also had an exciting and interesting dialogue with their special counterparts, which makes them feel that this is constructive and important in a wide range of Chinese societies. As I said, it does not mean that we are satisfied, but it gives us hope that the way we have chosen – both the bilateral dialogue, but also a clear speech in multilateral forums – is the right way to go, as we will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1151	So the debate is on case No. 10 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1165	The debate on the beginning of the genocide in Kosovo with the subsequent NATO bombing has updated the debate on other than the United Nations, by referring to emergency law, can take action to prevent genocide, among other things. e.g. China and Russia can veto the Security Council against the United Nations intervention against genocide. The debate has shown that international law is not unambiguous. I have raised this gap because I believe that the Government, based on the high profile of human rights in Norway, is leading – and with the ambiguity that prevails internationally, as well as in the Norwegian debate in this area – should work internationally to develop an emergency justice institute, and that this is made clear to the world opinion, an emergency justice institute that is just clarifying the international access of organisations such as NATO to intervene in genocide. A definition of genocide that I understand is in line with the United Nations Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Crimes on Genocide, of 1948, involves acts «which have been committed in order to destroy in whole, or in part, a national, ethnic, racial or religious group as such». In doing so, I will address my proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. We must never again experience that political leaders of the type Slobodan Milosevic will be able to commit genocide under the cover of international law giving them some form of immunity in the form of refusal to intervene in their internal affairs. We must never forget that the starting point for international policy is not countries, but individual people. International law must therefore not stand in the way of fundamental human rights. Formal lights must not stand in the way of preventing genocide. UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan was absolutely right when he was at the UN Commission on Human Rights on 7 April this year, among others. pronounced - the translation is at my expense: ‘It grows slowly, but surely, an international norm against violent repression of minorities who will and must take precedence over state sovereignty... If we allow the UN to be the refuge of ‘ethnic cleansers’ or mass murderers, we betray the ideas that inspired the formation of the UN.’ The moral basis of international law lies in – and the legal basis should be – human fundamental rights. If it does not, its digestion will gradually weaken. Globalisation with the subsequent CNN effect in terms of the globalisation of the media image helps to make human rights more universal in people's awareness. People no longer accept as easily as evidenced on a daily basis by international media. The idea that human beings have fundamental, natural rights, which give them moral protection from abuse, is on the rise. Politics is not just concrete political decisions. Politics is also, to a large extent, a signal. This is not least the case with international policies which, due to the anarchic nature of the international community, have, for example: not the internal legal structure of the Member States and the associated structures of power, which makes legal rules more enforced where this is deemed necessary — making it much easier for an offender or genocide to settle without having to be held responsible for their actions. Our response to this, in my view, and of course to what NATO has done in Kosovo through practical action, must also be to develop the legal and moral barriers in this area. An emergency law institution will be such a contribution to telling potential offenders that they can never be safe from the intervention of the world society. For international law must not be such as to hinder human rights, and even to the extent that genocide is permitted because it is done in one's own country. In 1999, we cannot say, as the Italian freedom fighter Giuseppe Mazzini did in the 1860s, that human rights are legitimised through the nation state. Human rights are universal, independent of race, religion or ethnic origin. Norway should therefore not be in line with international policies such as: China via the UN has a right to veto the right to stop a genocide. I would like to stress that an emergency court institute that involves a moral right, for example. NATO, to intervene against genocide, does not lower the threshold for intervention. It does not imply an automatic obligation for anyone to intervene, but it authorizes such a right. It is in my opinion a contribution to clarifying a moral and legal basis for an intervention. Nor do I think this will necessarily lead to more interventions than today. The policies of the powers will, as they are now, be governed mainly by what they define as their national interests, and it is, after all, the major acts that dominate the international organizations. But my hope is that clarifying the basis of international law for such an emergency justice institution can be a contribution to getting future Hitler, Stalin or Milosevic to worry about the consequences, among other things. for own skin. I have chosen to be open in the formulation of my proposal, because an effort in the debate that is already taking place internationally on this issue must give the Government considerable scope for action in terms of the design of the criteria for such an emergency court institute, as well as in the forums in which it might wish to work for such an institute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1196	The day Danielsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1199	The representative Dag Danielsen raises questions that are both important and difficult. I am therefore pleased to have the opportunity to clarify the Government's position on them. Let me emphasize, as a starting point, that international law constitutes the legal framework for the international protection of human rights. International law is our main tool in international efforts to enforce, further develop and ensure respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. This is also one of the key objectives of the United Nations Charter. Setting human rights against international law therefore makes no sense. The atrocities of World War II led in 1945 to important innovations in international law in the areas mentioned in the Danielsen interpellation. The UN Charter and the Statutes of the Nuremberg and Tokyo Courts provided the basis for important structural changes in the international legal system. The ban on threats or use of armed power in violation of the UN Charter, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and international criminal prosecution and punishment for war crimes and crimes against humanity were all important carriers of this new international law building plant. These were followed up in 1948 with the UN Declaration of Human Rights and the Convention of Genocide. Another important milestone came in 1966 with the adoption of the two UN Conventions on Human Rights. Outside the UN, the four Geneva Conventions for the Protection of Victims of the War were adopted in 1949 and two additional protocols in 1977. In the 1990s, the UN Security Council established two temporary courts to prosecute persons charged with war crimes, crimes against humanity or genocide in the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda, respectively. It is worth noting that these courts are established under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter on measures to maintain or restore international peace and security. Over the 1990s, we have seen a growing recognition of the link between the international protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms on the one hand and the maintenance of international peace and security on the other. A historic breakthrough to this recognition took place in Rome on 17 July last year with the adoption of a Treaty establishing a permanent international criminal court. Norway has been an active driver of such a court of law and has been at the heart of the negotiation process. The entry into force of the Treaty requires 60 ratifications, but it has already had an important effect by clarifying a number of legal issues. Furthermore, it is an important signal that in the future there will be no punishment for serious international crimes. The new system will assume that States still have the primary responsibility to prosecute such crimes. However, in the event of a lack of will or ability to pursue such national criminal proceedings, the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice could be triggered. In this context, inter alia: The UN Security Council plays an essential role in bringing relevant cases or situations before the Court. A major advantage of a permanent global criminal court, rather than new temporary international courts, will be significantly reduced response time for the international community. Hopefully, this will help to deter massive assaults. I have already mentioned the UN Pact's ban on threats to, or the use of, armed power. There are two exceptions to this ban. One is in Article 51 of the United Nations Charter on Individual or Collective Self-defence, and the other in the United Nations Charter Collective Security System under Chapter VII, Articles 39 to 50. Let me remind you here that the Atlantic Pact is based on Article 51 of the United Nations Charter on Individual and Collective Self-defence, and that the Atlantic Pact, in accordance with its Article 7, does not intervene in any way in the rights or obligations of NATO Member States under the UN Charter. Nor does it interfere with the primary responsibility of the Security Council for the maintenance of international peace and security. The government is of the opinion that NATO's commitment to crisis management must be based on international law. This is in the pact with our country's fundamental commitment to an international order based on legal rules. The Government assumes that the use of power must be based on international law, either in agreement with the parties, on the right to self-defence under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter, or on a mandate from the Security Council under Chapter VII or Chapter VIII of the Charter. A difficult humanitarian situation may be included in the assessment by the Security Council of the existence of a threat to international peace and security that could provide for coercive measures under Chapter VII of the UN Charter. When there is a basis for international law, humanitarian considerations could weigh heavily in deciding whether armed power should actually be used. On the other hand, a difficult humanitarian situation cannot in itself provide an adequate basis of international law for threats to or the use of armed power. In this context, let me also mention that in a 1986 judgment in The Hague, the International Court of Justice stated that the use of power is not the right instrument to ensure respect for human rights. The government sees no need to supplement the UN Charter provisions on the maintenance of international peace and security with an Emergency Justice Institute to legitimise the use of armed power. This also applies if there are questions about relieving a humanitarian crisis situation. It is the Government’s view that the provisions of the United Nations Charter provide the required room for action in such situations. Genocide, crimes against humanity and the most serious war crimes are situations that are likely to pose a threat to, or a breach of, international peace and security and will thus fall within Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter. Should such a situation show that it is not possible to obtain an explicit authorisation of use of power from the UN Security Council, an assessment must be made, if necessary, whether or not there can be a basis of international law for the use of power. The UN Charter provides an opening for this. Following Article 24 of the Charter, the members transfer the primary responsibility for maintaining international peace and security to the Security Council. The reason for this is to ensure rapid and effective action by the United Nations. Should the Security Council be unable to carry out its tasks on behalf of the Member States, this will, of course, not exempt the Member States or the UN from obligations under the UN Charter to maintain international peace and security. This view was also taken on the basis of the General Assembly of the so-called Uniting for Peace Resolution of November 1950 in connection with the Korean War. It is therefore the Government’s view that the ongoing NATO operations against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia have a necessary international legal base in the provisions of the United Nations Charter on the maintenance of international peace and security and in the relevant resolutions of the Security Council on the situation in Kosovo. The Prime Minister explained the Government's view of this in Stortinget on 18 March. I would also like to highlight some of the dangers of opening up power-use based on emergency justice considerations. The chance of abuse will be great. Such an emergency court institute could easily be used to legitimize what we can call new Brishnev doctrines. Not only the provisions of the United Nations Charter on the maintenance of international peace and security, but also its provisions on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms may be undermined by such an emergency justice institution. If we accept that emergency law considerations can justify the setting aside of the United Nations Charter provisions governing the use of power, we have no guarantee that any future emergency law considerations will not be directly abused for political or other purposes. In its ultimate consequence, such an emergency justice institution could represent a dangerous step away from the objective of an international order based on legal rules, in favour of a system based solely on power policy and the law of the strongest. For Norway, such developments will be worrying — not only in the light of our ideal foreign policy objectives, but primarily in the interests of very real security policy interests.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1249	I'm in no way an expert on international law, so I'm not going to commit myself to trying to give a judgment on the basis of international law in order to intervene in the way that NATO has done in Kosovo. However, what I am recording, and which, for me, is a problem, is that Milosevic and tyrants of his kind have always been able, historically, to commit serious violations of international law within their states and, at the same time, to feel confident that the current interpretation of international law through an absolute demand for the sovereignty of states would protect them from external sanctions. The fact that they are using this propaganda point is, in my view, sufficient reason for a strong international effort to improve the legal situation in this area and develop such a legal institution. This is the term ‘threat against international peace and security’. In my opinion, this is a much more unclear concept – a concept that gives much greater scope for interpretation for its own benefit if you cover national interests under ‘threat against international peace and security’, thereby legitimizing your own behaviour in international conflicts. My opinion is that an emergency court institute that is just based on genocide, and then for example. with the definition that I referred to, will clarify this much more.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1256	Neither am I an expert on international law, so at least the representative Danielsen and I are on the same footing. But fortunately, we have some of them in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who can give us advice, and what I have said in this room today is based on the advice I have received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' international law lawyers. I don't think there's any disagreement between Danielsen and me in the view of Milosevic and the abuses he's committed. The disagreement may consist in what opportunity we have to intervene according to the institutions and rules that exist today, and how we're going to use them. From my point of view and from the standpoint of the Government, it is important that we continue to respect the role of the United Nations. I must say that I disagree with the representative Danielsen when he says that in his view the concept of «treatment to international peace and security» is even more relative than other concepts that have been used here in the debate so far, and can therefore be abused politically. What is important with the term ‘Treatment to International Peace and Security’ is that it is a concept linked to the UN Charter and the UN Security Council and the use of power. This means that there is nothing that a single state can determine based on political interests. Now it is a problem that we still have countries in the Security Council that want to veto from power policy interests that they themselves define specifically. But instead of creating a new institute, I think our task is to try to bring the Security Council even more to life and try to make an impact so that the Security Council is used constructively. And as I pointed out, there are already opportunities within the UN Charter to intervene if the Security Council was not to take on the responsibility we believe it should assume. As you know, the Government's view is that the commitment we have in Kosovo today has a – if not entirely non-profit-making, so at least sufficient – basis for international law through the resolutions already adopted by the UN Security Council.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1274	The Labour Party will agree with the conclusions of the Minister for Foreign Affairs that there is no need to supplement the provisions of the United Nations Charter on the establishment of international peace and security with an Emergency Justice Institute in order to legitimise the use of armed power. I think the Foreign Minister expresses this very clearly when he says that it also applies to ‘if there is a matter of remedying a humanitarian crisis situation’, i.e. if there are threats of ethnic cleansing, bloodbathing, etc., and that the provisions of the United Nations Charter provide the required space for action in such situations and could fall under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter. I also share the view that if it is not possible to obtain an explicit authorisation from the UN Security Council, there must be opportunities, a basis of international law, to be able to do something in the world community. That being said, of course, there is a very interesting issue that the interpellant raises when he takes up the relationship between human rights and international law, not to say ‘human rights versus international law’ – I think that’s how he expressed it in the interpellation text. This is a debate that we and everyone else – despite Kosovo – have only started: what is the responsibility of the international community to prevent and prevent humanitarian disasters? What responsibility do we have to stop ethnic cleansing and genocide, to intervene in brutal, internal wars in a country? In this conflict, we can look at NATO's bombing of Serbia as the use of international emergency law. Is that it? Is there enough grounding in Chapter VII of the UN Charter to ensure a kind of UN approval in such operations? Is it such that regional organisations have a responsibility to prevent civil war in one of their Member States? There are plenty of conflicts to deal with, enough of examples to point to both in Africa and Asia at the moment. The world community never intervened and stopped Pol Pot's extermination of one million people in Cambodia, and the loss to Rwanda is in many ways a disgrace. In fact, I also want to point out that in 1973, in Chile, Pinochet's men went into factories and universities and shot down all those who could be suspected of being socialists – the poison was to be eradicated – and it's only today that the world community is doing something. Nevertheless, an emergency court institute will be able to represent a dangerous step away from the objective of an international order. I agree with the Foreign Minister. You can get a system based on the strongest right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1285	When the Minister for Foreign Affairs states that the armed action in Yugoslavia is based on international law in the UN Pact, he is based quite significantly on the resolutions that have already been adopted. But if it is generally assumed that the kind of resolutions that do not explicitly authorize the use of power provide a basis for the use of power, there will be a far greater risk that these kinds of resolutions will also be met with a veto, because one knows what consequences they will have. So I have a question for the Foreign Minister. Now let's say that there was also veto against these motions for resolutions, so you didn't have these resolutions to lean on. Would he then find that there was sufficient authority in the United Nations Charter alone to intervene, or are these resolutions a necessary part of this House order that gives rise to armed action?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1290	The complex and significant issues that the interpellant addresses in this debate, we will not be finished tonight. But it is an important beginning, because it is necessary for us, as politicians and nation, to address the dilemmas that the situation in Kosovo has so clearly demonstrated, a conflict in which the choice does not stand between good and bad solutions, but in which one must in any case make a choice against which to object, moral, philosophical, international and political, because whatever solution is chosen, will cause innocent people suffering and death. In addition, the legitimacy issue comes that is significant in the context of consistency and international law. I share the foreign minister's concern about the possible consequences of the institutionalisation of the principle of emergency law in addition to the assurance provided by the UN Charter, as explained by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I cannot therefore support the proposal of an emergency court institute. It is important to state that the UN Charter provides the necessary grounding for NATO operations in Yugoslavia. Thus, in my view, there will be no conflict between a judgment of international law and the human law, which must assume that the abuses against the Kosovar Albanian population represent clear violations of human rights. The media have questioned whether President Milosevic's actions in Kosovo can be defined as genocide, and some believe that NATO's actions are dubiously legitimate. In my opinion, this is a formalistic and theoretical approach. Furthermore, crimes against humanity must unfortunately be committed before they can be specifically defined and banned. Genocide became a concept after World War II – ethnic cleansing has become it now. It will also be established in international law. All choices, everything we do and don't do in this difficult situation, can be problematic. The challenge is to recognise the problems without being paralysed. That challenge I think NATO and the Government have mastered in the best way.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1301	I think Dag Danielsen here addresses a very interesting issue, although I have to admit that I do not feel that this is a three-minute problem, which is the opportunity we have to address it. I also fully share his intention to take it up, because we see how human rights violations have been able to occur in the light of state sovereignty. It is clear that there is a quite significant political challenge that requires consideration. But at the same time, I have to admit that I am not sure whether I think that the Kosovo crisis and NATO's handling are the right compilation, simply because there are doubts about whether NATO has had an adequate basis for international law for the organisation's actions. I have to say that I am not a moment in doubt that NATO has had a sufficient legal basis for what has been done, nor am I in doubt that what NATO has said about future operations of this nature, also has the necessary legal basis. So I'm very unhappy that Danielsen is just now raising the issue this way, because I don't think there's any reason to doubt about these concrete actions that NATO has started. I don't think it would be right to develop any of your own, new institute, but I think it is so absolute that there is a need to discuss more closely the requirements of the concept of an estimate of peace and security. It is clear that massive violations of human rights do not seem to me that it would be unnatural to discuss in that context as well. Then we talk more about discussing a legal development that is already going on, rather than creating a fundamentally new institute. As I said, I don't think NATO's commitment raises the need for a fundamentally new institute. I think NATO's commitment shows that today's legal state can be applied in that conflict as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1311	The interpellant has to some extent set up a contradiction between international law and human rights. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, it is an approach that is not very fruitful. In any case, human rights will be protected by international law and, to a very large extent, are also enshrined in international law, so that a contradiction between the two conditions is not justified. Some of the background to the need for an emergency court institute is, as far as I understand, the issue of the power of States for their territory, and that it is difficult for the international community to intervene in the exercise of powers by States in their territory. But if that's the problem, then maybe that's really the question you should be dealing with, and that's probably in the area where there's some progress in international law, in the sense that there's going to be situations where there could be a basis for going into countries. Then we're on a point that can be important in assessing issues of international law. It's that we're talking about a jurisdiction where it's not just about written sources. It could also be about international law based on practice, what might be called customary law, and at least the practices that are established will help to influence the content of international law. Any emergency court institute will necessarily have to become very unclear. If you were to try some moments, it would have to be a question of what interests are at stake. If so, how serious is it that would be prevented? What measures will be necessary to achieve the objective? What conclusion would an action possibly have from the international community? And finally, you'll actually need an institution, a body to decide whether you've gone beyond what the Emergency Justice Institute would permit or not. This is in a way a very clear contrast to national systems where emergency law rules and emergency law considerations are in place, because there you will have the courts to assess whether you have gone beyond the framework or not. Finally, when we say in some contexts that we have had them and those situations before without intervention, it is important to remember that what the United Nations can do is to legitimize the use of power that others may be exercising on behalf of the United Nations. The UN does not have the ability to use power itself.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1324	Earlier this evening, the Minister of Foreign Affairs presented the situation in the Balkans. Most of all, it is the suffering of individuals and the fact that the hatred between people is only getting bigger that is left when it is reported from the Balkans. But it's also another example of how inadequate international tools we have to prevent the suffering and create stability. That's why I think it's in place when the interpellant travels the topic: what kind of tools can we create to prevent systematic violations of human rights and genocide? We cannot sit still and accept that declarations of human rights and conventions become only fine words and are not worth anything when conflicts arise. The international community needs the opportunity to intervene and ensure that human rights are guaranteed in practice when they really apply. But how can this be done, there is no simple answer to it, and I doubt whether a new Emergency Justice Institute is the way to go. The UN Charter already opens up the use of military power in an emergency — it is to defend its own country or on behalf of the UN. The problem has, as you know, been getting a stir to intervene. The disagreement of some central countries will be exactly the same if we create an institute where some countries are not allowed to participate in and decide. The same tension in the situation will arise, and maybe even worse. If we first open up so that an alliance can decide where it will intervene, we must also allow other alliances around the world to do the same, with the unpleasant consequences it will have. We need international uprisings about reactions. It must be provided in arenas where the countries are represented. NATO war without a UN mandate has weakened the UN. I think that the conflicts in the Balkans show more than clearly that we now need to strengthen the UN again. There is no doubt that we need more sanctions in the United Nations. A good example is the United Nations Conference in Rome last autumn, where a Convention on the International United Nations Court of International Law was established. It is still a long way to go before the Court of Justice can enter into force, as the necessary ratifications are missing. With such a court in office, we will be able to hold genocides and war criminals responsible when the nation state does not. We will be able to break into conflicts in the past, and despots will know that the world community not only follows them but also has the opportunity to arrest them and judge them. It will be insufficient to look at freer possibilities of using military muscles. In our civilised world, the enormous challenge lies in developing forms of communication and finding responses that even an uncivilized genocide must bow down to. The road to peace never ends. But if the world had spent as many billions and as much energy securing social benefits and building democracies as the military effort, we would have made miles on that path.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1335	I thank you for many positive posts. Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk stressed that he himself was not an expert on international law, and that he had asked for advice from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry's international law lawyers. He went on to say that the concept of peace and security respects the role of the United Nations because it is linked to the UN Pact. But as I underlined in my first post: it also does the concept of genocide. It is linked to the 1948 UN Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of genocide. To the representative, Nybakk: With regard to the obligation to take action against genocide, this is also allowed here, because it says that in a situation of justified suspicion that genocide is about to take place, states have a moral duty to prevent it. So there I think there's no difference. But what's a problem, and that's some of the background for me to go up this interpellation – even though neither the Minister for Foreign Affairs nor I am international law experts – is that a number of prominent academics in this country have stated that what NATO has now done is outrageous. Then the problem is there, and that's what I'm trying to tackle, so that you can't face this in the future, that you have to clarify this internationally, so that you don't want to meet such arguments in the future. To the representative Petersen: I can agree that it is not lucky to use the composition of Kosovo and NATO's handling here, but what is one of the problems is that it has been said in the past in this Chamber that one cannot intervene against Yugoslavia, precisely because it is a sovereign state. So there's a problem here. I personally have no doubt that it is morally right for NATO to intervene as it is, and probably it is also right for international law, but here, as I said, I am not an expert, so I shall let that debate lie so far. The representative Næss said that of course you won't be done with the problems here tonight, and I absolutely agree with that. What I had hoped was that one could take a step further in the debate. In this respect, I wish that Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk not only listen to his international law experts in the U.D. Department of Justice, but also, for example, to listen to them. on Malin Stensønes, who had an excellent chronicle on the theme in the December newspaper, where she tried to draw up some criteria for such an emergency court institute.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1350	The representative Danielsen has had two important interpellations tonight, and they both deal with questions that we won't get through here, but that we have to follow up. We're also going to do that in terms of his interpellation. However, I do not think it is right to do so in the form of a decision that obliges the Government to work for an emergency court institute. However, we will work on these issues in connection with the preparation of a Norwegian Security Council candidate. I think it's important that, just through the work we're doing in the United Nations and in the Security Council, we also get a greater commitment from the major tone-setting states on the issues raised here tonight. What is the case, as several of the debaters have pointed out, is that, first of all, it is most uncertain whether such an emergency court institution would be established. And even if it were to be established, we'd be facing the same problems that we have in the Security Council today, because this is probably just as much, not to say more, about politics than about law and legal issues. When power policy considerations come in, we often see that the major powers block this, and that's one of the things we have to try to prevent through a dialogue with them when it comes to using the Security Council. I would say that, in essence, we also have the necessary basis in Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter in relation to genocide, because, as I said in my speech, 'population murders, crimes against humanity and the most serious war crimes are situations that will easily pose a threat to or a breach of international peace and security'. In this way, many of the issues that the representative Danielsen wants to deal with should also be addressed in Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter. I believe that some of this also answers the question raised by the representative, Mr Gundersen: what do we do if we are also vetoed by the resolutions on which we base our action in Kosovo? Yes, it's a problem that's not that easy to solve, but where we have, for example. Article 24 of the UN Charter, which indicates that we have left the primary responsibility for maintaining international peace and security to the Security Council. But this, of course, does not exempt us from making political assessments and also engaging in serious discussions on how to maintain peace and security and safeguard human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1359	Debates of the European Parliament So 11 is over. [[Opinion on proposals, see page 2940]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1367	Then we're ready for voting, and we start with case no. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1386	During the debate, Karin Andersen put forward three proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Karin Andersen – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1391	During the debate and after the debate, I have received signals from a majority in Stortinget that they support the intention of the proposals and ask for them to be converted into transmission proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1396	Mr Andersen has proposed that the three proposals be turned into transmission proposals. The President cannot see that she has any serious objections to it and proposes that the three proposals be converted into transmission proposals. Proposal No. 1 shall then read as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government of the State budget for 2000 report on the coherence and interaction between labour market policy and district policy.’ Proposal No. 2 is replaced by the following: ‘The Government is advised to propose a test scheme with local freedom to dispose of district policy instruments as a framework for some municipalities/municipalities. As part of this experiment, the A budget in the test state/municipalities is given greater freedom to use their resources in the areas of experimentation.» Proposal No. 3 shall be worded as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit proposals for an economic incentive scheme for government agencies to promote the establishment of public service offices.’;» The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs on regional and regional policy be annexed to the minutes at the meeting of the Council on 20 April 1999. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1431	Case No. 10 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1437	During the interpellation debate, Dag Danielsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to work internationally to establish an emergency court institute to clarify access to international law for organisations such as NATO to act against genocide.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-04-27-2.ana.ud1809e1456	There is no record.
