ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e15	The representative, Jan Petersen, who has been authorized, has taken the seat again. Continued with handling of
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e29	It is positive that the examination of Document No. The 8:58 proposal showed that there was no basis for promoting the proposal, much less for its adoption. The proposal is not raised today and the reasons set out in the proposal are not repeated in the comments. Yes, the reason and argument there has disappeared as dew for the sun. The proposal would obviously contribute to narrowing the scope of action of the Council of State. The result has become the opposite in significant areas — increased room for action by the Council of State and the Government. One may conclude from the examination of this case and from the correspondence between the Business Committee and the State Council, that there is no breach of the Storting's assumptions at any point. It is therefore not right when, in today's debate, the representative Opseth says that the reading has demonstrated that the Council of State has not followed up. It gets a ritual expression without substance as it is carried out here today. The main objective of the Government has been to contribute to real competition. Other policy environments have been less concerned about this. They have not been able to understand the need for real competition when the solution is already to be found between the permes of IT Fornebu. Here the Minister of Industry has taken hold, and he has succeeded. It is positive that in this process there is a framework for the notifying stakeholders, who are policy-makers. In this work, the Spøtvoll Committee has made important contributions. An arrangement has been made in contact with the university and higher education communities. For us in the Left, it is very important. I also record from the comments that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party view this as an unnecessary detour, and it does say a lot about how one considers the importance of playing on teams with these environments. In today's debate, the Right-Representative Inge Wohnning said that the Spøtvoll committee is bringing this down to the ground and making it a possible positive project. Wages and salaries are right. It was an important step to bring the Spøtvoll committee into the work on this process. At the same time, he gives a part of the answer to what the Right Representatives have asked for today and called for, what is left of the government's grip and priority in this matter. So the answer is that you've made a scheme that means that there's real competition, and you've got a politician-driven arrangement within a whole framework. I think it is very positive that there have now been several solid stakeholders. It allows the government to choose a good solution, and that one can do it without having the fasitite ready on the inside pocket. I am convinced that the government is also doing such a good job in this area that the Stortinget can walk in a well-marked loop when the matter comes here in the autumn. What has happened since the center parties can now live with the solution that this case seems to get in the Storting today, is asked. First of all, it has been clear that important elements in this case were to be dealt with in Stortinget. Moreover, with the process currently being prescribed, the Storting does not take over the proceedings, as was the case at one stage. Moreover, for the first time in two years, the necessary order in this case has been put in place by several equivalent competitors who have the same opportunity to be selected. Selection and process shall take place in open terrain, and the necessary time shall be taken to get it into port. The Progress Party and the Workers' Party have said in a note that it must be an objective to make different stakeholders cooperate. When the Minister of Economic Affairs at one point suggested that it could be useful, the representatives Opseth and Hedstrøm and ordered that the government thread be followed by eagles. And people who have long seagoing times in this room know that when Opseth threatens to follow a matter with eagle-eyes, it's serious! Now the Labour Party and the Advance Party think in the same paths. They suggest that it may be relevant to cooperation, but now the situation is that we are facing tenderers who have made such complete contributions that it no longer seems to be as topical. It has been said that in this case we have seen that the government adapts most of the time. That's wrong. In this case, we have seen that it matters who is in the government position. We've got real competition and a policy-driven framework. Now the Storting makes decisions and admits the government better time. It's positive.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e50	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e53	The majority have never chosen an actor in this case, the opposite is true, the same number of times it is repeated. And I think it's a little unworthy, when we've come to an agreement on how we're going to go forward, that the same statements, which are directly wrong, are repeated. I have to say that I'm quite confused after listening to the centre party in this debate, and one might wonder if there's a basis for the formula that the setting expresses. First Morten Lund said earlier today that this was a violation of the Council of State, and that the majority in one way asked the Council of State for cause. And then Kvassheim says that it turns out that there was no basis for this proposal. This is actually completely wrong! That's the opposite of it. We asked three questions to the Council of State, and he confirmed that he would follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy and its constitutions. What has been said today could provide a basis for believing that it will not be the case. And I want confirmation from the representative of Kvassheim as a member of the Left Party, one of the government parties, that we don't get new rounds from the government party and/or the state council where a good thing is not to follow up that multiple in Stortinget. Otherwise we have to get it on the table today, and then it might be that the situation is actually a little dramatic yet.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e60	To the extent that there was a question here, it went on whether the Government can confirm that it will follow up the Storting's leadership in dealing with this matter. The answer to that is a clear yes. What I weighed in my post was that the clarification has not come now, it has been there for several months. And as the case-rapporteur Gabrielsen so aptly said, after the council had been in the committee hearing, he did not move on a comma; he stood like a pole. So the government has had a position here for several months, and it has been a misunderstanding that the government tried to train the decision to collapse and run another race. It has been clarified by the examination within the Committee that this is not the case, and that is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e65	I have stated earlier today that it was extremely disappointing that the government parties have been humiliated in the last round of this matter by the majority, consisting of the Labour Party and the Progress Party. It has been those who sit quite close to the government, who have even stated the postulate that this would have been a good thing for the government to go on. They did not need to be erased after it was found that all the assumptions that the Storting had made had been followed up. The majority were just left with the purest powder. But my question to Kvassheim is as follows: When the Workers' Party and the Advance Party want more than one interested party to join the state of this new company – so you would like to see two or more join forces – which marshallers is it that Kvassheim sees him to ask Sponheim to follow up on this matter? It may allow companies that are far from among the best to participate in the development of this company, a very non-obligatory one. There is a reduction in competition and there are completely different conditions to those offered by the opening of tenders. What advice will Kvassheim give his close party trap Sponheim in this matter? And then finally: I only understand today what Steensnæs meant at the Christian People's Party national meeting when he stated that the government's history had to be so far and should be written in gold writing, when one allows himself here today to ruin this matter as a wreckage for the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e74	On two important points, the debate today has shown that consideration of the matter has been of practical importance. Firstly, it has taken action taken by the Government and the Council of State, which has led to real competition because one now made it possible in time. I guess the Right recognizes that it's like this, and that they're satisfied with it. In addition, in today’s debate, the representative, Mr Wohnning, confirmed the positive importance of the Sponheim Governmental Council making it possible for the Spjøtvoll Committee to be involved in this process in order to get close contact with the higher education and university communities. So there are two concrete examples that the government has come up with its priorities. Then there was the question of what I would give of advice in relation to the comment that one should help different stakeholders cooperate. My advice is that one should present these stakeholders with whom one should negotiate, that recommendation. But I would also like to add that I have already registered that these actors have notified me that it seems to be a little bit topical. And it is they who must have the decisive word in this context. Today's debate has also made it clear that both the Progress Party and the Labour Party believe this. This is not a dictatorship, but a request to raise a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e81	In the debate on this matter, the most powerful forces are being used and there is the most interest in the disagreement about both details and perhaps slightly greater issues between political parties in the Stortinget and with regard to the Government. It may be interesting, although it is a little difficult from our point of view now at least to get to grips with what the real disagreement between the Government and the government parties and the Workers' Party and the Progress Party is now going on. It's a little hard to get hold of. It seems to me that the government parties are scared into the fold of the game that has taken place, and have bought the whole package. But to signals coming from outside to this hall, from heavy environments that both the majority and the government should listen a lot to, for example. Vice-Chancellor Kaare Norum at the University of Oslo, who gives signals that this is actually a wrong bet, chooses the majority and also the Government to close their ears completely. Kaare Norum writes in a chronicle in Dagbladet that this is a derailment of an important debate. The discussion should also focus on what to do with research and then research-based education and industry. The debate should not be about where it should be, building up the good we have! Can Kvassheim, on behalf of the government parties, hopefully explain why this signal and many other signals from both industry and educational environments are not given any weight at all, while the political game about the Government and between the government parties and the Labour Party and the Progress Party completely overshadows the important content of the case, namely how to get on the job in terms of IT, research and education?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e86	Now we are in the situation that we do not know the final actor who is going to build this IT centre on Fornebu. We also don't know the components of the center. I therefore think it is far too early to conclude that this will have a major negative effect. My ambition is on the contrary to help us get an establishment that helps to get an offensive in an area where there are great opportunities. But it is important to bring with it some of the counter-representations that have come from the higher education and university environment, just to avoid getting a design on this that weakens other environments. That's why the Spøtvoll committee's setting was so important. I feel confident that in the further handling of these issues, contact with the higher education and university community as well as a desire to have a centre that can play with other parts of the country, and not with other parts of the country, will be important elements when the Government makes its decision.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e93	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e96	The size is now back about where we were last year in this matter. The new thing is that the Minister of Economic Affairs has now committed itself to following up Storting's intentions and decisions in all areas. Why in the world this long detour? It should be obvious that Storting's decision is being followed up. Unfortunately, this was not the case – not until now, which shows that the proposal we are discussing today had its effect. This proposal is not about whether the Storting should take over the tasks of the Government but about whether the Storing Decision should be followed up. Now it happens. Then the Workers' Party has achieved what we wanted. The merger of information technology, telecommunications and multimedia has created a new IT industry. In addition, IT is a crucial growth and competitiveness factor in traditional business. Evolution is very fast. Technology allows enterprises, if they want, to divide their activities into several countries. But the reality is that many new growth businesses are looking for clusters and clustering together. They want to be part of a professional environment, have personal contact and access to qualified labour. This is why the IT and knowledge centre is developing with the state as a partner in many countries. Norway must therefore have a comprehensive IT policy to prevent new technologies from creating new differences in society and ensuring our competitiveness. It must also be a primary objective to maintain important IT skills at home and to attract skills from abroad. But this is not a matter of course. On the contrary, there is a great danger that technology and knowledge can leave the country. In our neighbourhood, the Øresund bridge helps to connect the Malmø and Copenhagen areas. Competence should be built here and businesses should be established across a wide range of areas. The Danish and Swedish plan an IT growth centre with the state as an engine. The aim is to form clusters of competences and business activities so that they can compete with other urban regions in Europe. The plan is that the IT Growth Centre should hold an IT college and a research park such as the shall assist smaller IT enterprises in the start-up phase and be a common framework for the establishment of major IT enterprises in what is called the Ørestad. Telia is already establishing itself there. Denmark's Radio has expressed the desire to establish a new, integrated media house. If the Danes and the Swedes succeed, this will be an area of enormous growth and traction. Of course, they want Norwegian IT skills with them. The Danish Minister for Industry said, among other things:For many Norwegian IT businesses, the Øresund region will be the natural place to seek out when the business is to expand or find partners internationally. Of course, we are going to cooperate with Danes and Swedes, but are we really going to have to stand up so that Norwegian businesses that will expand have to travel to Copenhagen? We should have the strength, competence, capital and initiative enough to establish such opportunities in Norway. That is why we have emphasised that an IT and competence centre must be of an international format. A comprehensive plan and cooperation between State and private capital are necessary to achieve this. This has always been the starting point of the bulk of the population, and at first the center parts were actually also at the original setting. I am happy the centre can now be established under the conditions decided by a majority in the Stortinget. Industrial employment is now falling again for the first time in five years. We lost 22,000 industrial jobs last year. Our oil dependence is increasing. It is confirmed by the submitted revised national budget. It is time for the Minister of Industry to address this challenge. Therefore, it is good that the question of an IT centre at Fornebu is brought back to the starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e123	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e126	It is good that Document No. 8:58 now attached to the protocol and gone. But I think the members of the Labour Party are a bit pompous when, together with the Progress Party, they write in an annotation that a little delay for an IT centre on Fornebu, which otherwise had too tight a time frame, ‘may have serious consequences for value creation and welfare’. The representative, Mr Jagland, repeated the seriousness of this delay. It seemed to me to remind me of the ‘father of the house and home’, of which there was nothing either. Does the representative, Mr Jagland, seriously think that having a defence case and taking the offerors, which are many, seriously, has consequences for the welfare of Norway? IT education will be at all levels in Norway. It is our educational institutions that are going to take care of, even though teaching at Fornebu can start at the earliest when we write in 2000. Furthermore, the Labour Party wants the company to merge to become even stronger. Will the representative Jagland confirm that it must be up to the companies themselves to decide, because they are private companies in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e135	It had serious consequences for unemployment and well-being when we let the industry get into trouble. Industrial employment fell. It had quite a big impact on our country. I think we should remember that. In the case of good practice, the fact is that it was originally a broad majority in the Storting that would do so. Then the Minister of Industry sends a follow-up message to the Stortinget, to which the majority responded very strongly. There are requirements and guidelines for the establishment of the Centre, which the majority consider to be contrary to what was formulated in the Stortinget, and a letter from the majority is sent to that effect. The Minister of Economic Affairs claims that the majority is wrong. Only now, during the examination of Document No. The 8-proposal, the Minister of Industry answers what he should have responded to the original letter sent by the majority. I do not call this a proper procedure. But now the matter has come on the right track. I am convinced that if we spend more money with this now, it can have great consequences for Norway, because there are so many other magnets that attract technology and competence in our days. I just want to refer to what's going on in the Øresund region. But there are many other examples too, so I think it's urgent to get started. The majority acted as it did, precisely because we should not lose more time than what has already been lost in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e142	Most of the speeches by Mr Jagland were key arguments in the February debate. I understand that I should like to conduct that debate again, not the one we are now facing, which is therefore a specific document. Eight proposals, which he himself has even characterized as necessary to call for parliamentaryism. After listening to both Jagland and Kvassheim before him, I must honestly admit that I am strongly in doubt about what the Workers' Party and the government parties really agree on. Remember that the proposal on which the proceedings were based today was promoted because the majority believed that the government had trained the case, that they had acted contrary to the Storting's assumptions, and that they had not followed up the Storing's instructions. Then it is also quite clear in the position that the Right and Government parties believe that the Minister of Industry has documented that the requirements he has set up are within the Stortingen's assumptions. It has also made Kvassheim clear today; he has said that this has been clear for several months already, long before this treatment that is now in progress, during the whole thing was started. If it is the case that Iland believes that the Minister for Industry has made a withdrawal, I would like to ask if he could be so kind as to tell me on which points the Minister for Industry has made a withdrawal, where he has not acted in accordance with the conditions of the Storting, and where he does not base his invitation to tender. If it is the case that we are now going to take a different view from the invitation to tender, what is the situation in which Iland believes that the operators in question have arrived? Then they have offered something they have not been asked to do, according to the opinion of the majority of the population. The reality is that there is a lack of strong premise for a proposal here, but then one has forgotten to do something about the conclusion itself, namely that the Stortinget will have the matter back again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e151	I could answer with what the rapporteur-general for this matter said when the claims and guidelines were sent out. He then said that this hardly could be in accordance with the opinion of the majority of the population. It was also the opinion of the majority of the population at that time. But the Minister of Economic Affairs denied this relationship. The Minister of Economic Affairs, however, wrote during the discussion of this matter in Stortinget — i.e. during the examination of this document No. The 8 proposal – a letter that the majority now find satisfactory. There is a general plan for this, that the terminal building should be put into service, and that it is not initially restricted to the residential area to be available out there. These conditions have been fundamental all along, especially in terms of a comprehensive plan and the use of existing buildings, so that it would not be long, long before anything could be done. It is the time aspect that has always been crucial for the Workers' Party in this case. And then I'm glad that letter came from the Minister of Industry. What I don't understand to date is why he couldn't have answered this when the majority sent his letter on April 14. Had he then answered what he finally answered, this matter had been out of the world. Then there had been no document number. Eight proposals. So it's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e158	First, until Jagland concluded his speech, namely that he was happy that the matter had now been brought back to ‘the starting point’. I have to ask the representative Igland to explain what he means by that. Does this mean that the leaders that are now placed are such that the Workers' Party believes that you have tailor-made the scheme to the mild degree that you are absolutely sure of what interest it is that is going to get rid of the winner? So Jagland talked about the IT industry forming clusters, and that this is the starting point for investing in an idea about IT-Fornebu, and he said that it builds up such environments around the world, and that's right. But most of these clusters are the industry of seas and educational institutions that have initially taken the initiative. Another important thing to bring with it is that if you take ideas that arise elsewhere, and try without doing too much with them, to translate them into Norwegian reality, you can bomb completely on the goal. This has happened before when Norwegian politicians adopted ideas from other countries and tried to implement them in Norway. Then they have not become very good. Is this not the case when building an IT centre in Norway and building up IT skills and training, that Norwegian reality, in the Norwegian IT industry, must also be taken as a starting point in Norwegian education and research environments? In this case, it has not been done in this way at all. And is it not that if you want to use this as a decentralised tool – it has, among other things. The Labour Party is in favour – do you have to have a bet that is decentralizing in your being and not centralizing in your being?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e167	When I say that the matter has been brought back to ‘the starting point’, it is because the will of the majority of the population is now being carried out, which also included the centre parties. The starting point was that the majority did not think it was a good idea for the state to dispose of these plots without trying to establish any business related to IT on Fornebu. That was the starting point of last year, and we're back there now. That then there's been a lot of argument, so let's say what the replicator now came up with, we're just going to take as a parentheses, I think, in Norwegian industrial history. I think that in retrospect will be perceived as relatively petty. There has been no attempt to disburse anyone in this. But it's a fact that someone has tried to drive ideas and get to work together. Now we're all happy that we've got more on the track, and if you could also get some of them to cooperate, that would be the very best thing for the country. The point has been to try to connect business, research and education in something new, which has been able to be achieved in quite a number of other countries, and which has been crucial for industrial development in many countries. What's happening now is centralization, because now labour is being sucked up from all over the country, because you're not able to train enough people. Students are bought up long before they are finished, to the central areas. It is if you are able to train enough people and get involved in this business, that you can actually manage to get out for decentralization. I believe that this matter has been put quite a bit on my head for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e180	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e183	Despite the different approaches to this issue, including through the last article, from the representative of Jagland, it seems that the Storting can at least gather around one common point of view, namely that one is now satisfied that the handling of this matter can be carried out in a satisfactory and justifiable manner. The debate on an IT centre at Fornebu was in the process of completely derailing. Instead of having a debate on the implementation of the IT and knowledge centre itself, we had a formal debate with Parliamentary undertones on understanding the Storting decision, on requirements specifications and guidelines, on trust in the management of further proceedings by the Government and the Minister of Industry. In the light of the decision of 25 February this year, the content of Document No. The 8th proposal makes it absolutely necessary to clarify essential points with regard to the evaluations and claims of the proposers. Firstly, a clean-up of understanding of the division of labour and tasks between mass and government. It is the government that must be responsible for dealing with the matter and preparing a political decision-making process in the Stortinget. The size has neither the procedural capacity nor the necessary professional insight to provide a political basis for decision-making. Another thing is, of course, that the Stortinget is quite free to test the government's assessments and conclusions on all points. Secondly, the necessary time must be set aside for proper proceedings both by the Government and here in the Stortinget. Decision of 25 February this year and the detailed requirements set out in Document No. The eight-proposal, it's not going to jump. I am pleased that the proposers themselves have also realised that asking the Government to submit all agreements and contracts and decisions to the Storting for final approval before implementation, as it said, could not be properly implemented within the time limits set. Of course, the fact that we've come to an agreement on this is positive. The seven tenderers have a clear, fundamental requirement for a serious and sound procedure. Thirdly, clarification was necessary as regards certain wordings in Document No. The 8th proposal, which claims that requirements and guidelines should be contrary to, or deviate from, the treatment and decision of the Stortinge case, further argues that the Minister of Industry should not have followed up the decision of the Stortinge and the clarifications of the majority of the population. These are all serious claims. By letter from the Minister of Economic Affairs to the Business Committee dated 26 May of this year, it was fully explained that the Ministry has dealt with all aspects of the decisions and premises made by the Stortingen in this context. The serious claims made in Document No. The 8 proposal will not be repeated in the Committee's vote. That, in our opinion, is not the basis for this either, and therefore we have received a satisfactory, but also absolutely necessary clarification on this essential point. So it's set up to deal with this important matter that brings it to the right track, and so we, for our part, by the Christian People's Party, have no problem putting ourselves behind. I also notice that both the Labour Party and the Advance Party are now expressing joy at the fact that several tenderers have signed up to develop an IT and competence centre, but I would like to note that the majority had initially not arranged for such a procedure. With regard to the Right's comments and proposals, where they express full confidence that the Government will be able to take the necessary decisions in the matter, and should also initially be best suited to make a qualified opinion in the matter, I naturally have no problem agreeing to it so far as the Government's assessment capacity is concerned. The main point, however, is not that a majority of people want a decision on the matter. It's okay. Firstly, our main objection has been to a procedure in which the Stortinget seemed to take over both investigative and procedural responsibilities in a way that made the responsibilities between collapse and government unclear, and in addition that the limited time limits could make both the government's and Storting's proceedings completely irresponsible. From this point of view, I find it hard to understand why not also the Right could be involved in forming a majority for the procedure that is now widely agreed in the Stortinget. I guess there's been a tendency towards some kind of history here, about who was wrong and who could enjoy the winning fruits. Don't do that. The most important thing is, after all these excesses and estimates of unnecessary drama, to get this case on the right track. For my part, I'm glad. It should also be a great deal of joy.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e206	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e209	It may not be nice to try to succeed from this government, for it is well as happy Ibsen says in the Wild: ‘If you take the lie of life from an average human being, you also take the happiness from him immediately.’ It is such that someone has stumbled over how this government hangs and how it copes with defeat after defeat – especially for some of the parties that are involved and form the government base. But it's easy to understand when the representative Morten Lund characterizes what's happened now, as a ‘brake owner’ of the Government, a breakage for the Minister of Industry. If there are such episodes that are victorious, I understand that they can in a way lift the flag and say that they have won a good deal in the government position. Let me briefly sum up one of these: Already in 1997, when we dealt with the 1998 budget, a good deal was said about this IT and knowledge centre that Stortinget wanted at Fornebu. So this was followed up by a big message, no. 38, in May last year, where, among other things, From the Government's side, it was set up to sell the land there without any leads. This didn't accept the large-scale majority; we pressed things in place both when the barren area and a good deal of other provisions. So it was followed up with a new big message, St.meld. No 13 for 1998-99, on remaining issues, where the Minister of Industry again took up a fight with the Stortinget in many ways. Then we had to go so far that, in the form of decisions, we were heading closer to both the process of time and the way forward. But in the debate, the Minister of Industry actually said that he was indisputable in the Stortinge's arrangement. Then he followed up with some guidelines that go across the big business decision, and then the Storting had to repress things in place. Is this what one says for the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e219	The representative Rudihagen continues his history and is concerned that views are recorded, so that in retrospect it can be tested who can celebrate the winning fruits in this. I had so much to say in my speech, and I think that debate is quite uninteresting. Comments have already been made in the press, and from those who follow the Storting – and those comments are quite unambiguous – about who had to bend and who had to adjust their positions in relation to the Document No. The 8th proposal available. I think it's a historically arduous view that will stand, but let the story be judged. What is important is that what was said in Document No. The 8, do not repeat. As I said in my speech, the parliamentary undertones, in which a claim that both claims and guidelines on several points were to be contrary to or deviate from the Stortinge's treatment and decision in the matter, and that the Minister of Industry should not have followed up the decision of the Stortinge and the clarifications of the majority of the population. Those were serious claims. I would also like to add that through the procedure provided by the Minister of Industry, we have got seven tenderers who have signed up to expand IT fornebu. I would like to repeat that it was not possible with the scheme that the bulk of the population had for deadlines and further progress in this matter. Now everyone expresses the joy that this has happened. I hope we can get together on this important thing. We've got the case on the right track and got the competition we want on these important areas. Then the conclusion is drawn when the Government comes to the Storting with its proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e228	I have to admit that I think my point from the line to Jagland, namely that it is difficult to understand that the government parties and the Labour Party and the Advance Party are in agreement with each other, and that is also after the line exchange I have just heard. I understand very well that Steensnæs was concerned about the very strong criticism, with parliamentary leadership, as he says, contained in Document No. The 8th proposal. There was clearly a lack of confidence in Sponheim. I remember that we took part in a television debate where Steensnæs said that at this point the majority had to clear up his criticism, as he expressed it there. Now I have the impression that since there is nothing in the setting, Steensnæs believes that it has been cleaned up in this criticism. I agree with Mr Steensnæs that it is quite surprising that the majority, who made proposals with serious parliamentary implications, as Steensnæs says, fail at all to comment on the situation when the position on the matter is to be promoted. This could perhaps be added, if it had not been for Thorbjørn Jagland immediately before Steensnæs’ posts actually repeated three points where he thought there was a basis for the criticism. And then you haven't put it all down. After all, it has been said that it is the Council of State that has changed its perception in this area and settled down in relation to what the majority has done. It would have been better for us if you were now reasonably aware of who really had given up – not because it has something to do with the political game, but because this has something to do with what kind of IT center we're really going to get. Because if there is now so much uncertainty about what the basis is, we have to ask the question: On what basis have the companies actually offered? Is that based on Sponheim's rules or Opseth's rules? I think this is very clear when it comes to the housing part. This is Sponheim's 30 housing units and 200 student cabins, but from Jagland's point of view, it seems like you have to go into the 1 300 homes. And then my question is: does Steensnæs really mean that the Government can ultimately go in for a center that is building 1,300 homes?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e241	At one point I will be very clear and precise, and it concerns the relationship to the two serious sentences introduced into Document No. The 8th proposal. It's not repeated. That's good enough for us. Document No. The 8-proposal had it as its starting point and raised that issue, and had it been repeated, we had a parliamentary situation that had to be resolved. When it's not repeated, it's good enough for us. So this is what Thorbjørn Jagland has repeated here, namely the allegations that the three points of the hearings in the Business Committee would have no impact on the competition that has been conducted. There it is clearly written in our remarks that the seven tenderers with the starting point of the Government have nevertheless remained within the framework of what has been the competition, and that all seven can therefore be in the final race. It's clarifying. This also indicates that what the Minister for Industry has sent out of demand and guidelines for competition has been in line with the formulations of the majority of the population. They have not been able to point out that there has been any deviation from what was introduced as a prerequisite, compared to what was actually sent out. If it had been pointed out – and here the Labour Party and the Advance Party have placed considerable commitment and emphasis on this – yes, it would have had to be made clear that at least one tender was outside the Minister of Industry’s specification. No one was outside. I believe that the Minister for Industry has at all points followed up on the basis of the large majority of the calls for tenders.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e254	To the representative, Steensnæs, I would like to say that when it comes to the question of who has stressed what is involved in the submission of these offers, it might as well be close to believing that those who have submitted the bid have placed emphasis on the Storting's intentions. But that was not what I asked for the word. From parliamentary leaders of the government parties, it is now repeatedly attempted to ask questions about whether the letter from the Minister of Industry of 26 May is a confirmation of what we have meant all along, namely that the demands and guidelines issued by the Minister of Industry were not in line with the decision of the Stortinge on the points to which the Minister of Industry now says yes. And if that's how the government party jumps out of the Minister of Industry's letter, yes, then we're about exactly the same distance. And I will have clarified that before this debate ends. Does the Minister for Industry write in a letter of 26 May, or does he not?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e261	What the Minister of Industry wrote, he wrote it that says! The fact that we are in favour of this is, of course, simply because we believe that there is a connection between the guidelines that the Minister of Industry sent out after the decision of 25 February this year and what is actually now being clarified in the letter to the Committee, in which he answers in four respects yes to all questions. And of course, we're going to put that behind us, because we think it's a relationship. But that there is different perception of the three points, since our members of the Business Committee have also stated in their comments that one has ‘different understanding of these three points’, but that one has recorded that this: ‘has had no impact on the competition conducted and the offer made by the operators concerned, on the basis of the government’s requirements specifications, in accordance with the Storting decision’. That's what I'm dealing with. When all the seven tenderers have submitted tenders in line with the Stortingen decision, it would more than clearly show that the Minister of Industry has done so to be loyal to the decision and decision of the Stortingen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e273	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e276	A lot of hours of debate once again, not because the content of the case has changed, but because the government council Sponheim has been in a situation where the Stortinge has had to take the role of guide. We think that's a pity, but if you do, you have to. It has always been reasonably clear that the Council of State did not share the majority's views on the establishment of Fornebu, but it is with interest that we have followed the Council of State's position on disregarding clear decisions and intentions. Our starting point in this case has been that when faced with proposals for conversions or new ideas, they should be assessed from two points of view. First, what can the new bring about by positive and negative relationships? And secondly, what happens if we don't go in for the new or don't make the proposed conversion? The last question might be at least as important as the first one. In my view, those who are most negative in this case do not ask the last question. Because it's not like we're just saying no to heavy government involvement, it's going to be trouble free. An IT and knowledge centre will come under any circumstances. For the Workers' Party, it has always been essential that the State be active with and shape parts of the Centre, so that the leaders of the Stortinge can really become a reality. Otherwise, I think there will be every reason to fear both centralization and vacuuming of District Norway for competence. The fact that the state is active and heavy is the best guarantee that the centre really evolves as the authorities and thus the universities and universities want. The working party has not taken a position on which private stakeholders are responsible for the establishment. That's not our problem either. That's always been our assumption. IT Fornebu has shown what could be possible from such a centre of positive effect, both for the country as a whole and for the districts. Others might be able to do it better? The majority at least ask the Government to make a valuation of the property as soon as possible, so that you can get on with the matter, and to continue negotiations with three or more stakeholders at this time. The Labour Party hopes that when we debate this matter next time, we can focus on the content of the matter and not the Council of State's position on the Storting decision. Now I want to add that a national strategy for IT can not only be seen from this matter. We have a long tradition of national and local authorities moving in the same direction, and perhaps especially in this case, we see that much of the same happens. It is thought in the same way in some municipalities and regions throughout the country. Thus, it is possible to implement what was the starting point, to use IT as a good district policy. Therefore, it was surprising that especially the centre parties before the weekend went against the electronic motorway proposed by the Workers' Party. This is negative for rural enterprises, and it is negative for rural areas to be able to move on, for example. KS, which can use the competence and electronic system developed by the future IT centre, to organise e.g. distance education for local government employees. In order to succeed in the strategy of which an IT centre at Fornebu is part, we need to be able to take care of both the companies and the centres that are built across the country. We see that some people are considering moving out of the districts now, precisely because it has not been arranged for them to develop in the districts. This is the greatest threat to this becoming a good district industry. This can happen when the centre parties are not even able to adopt a good national strategy, but are only concerned with limiting the participation of the country and thus risk cutting the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e297	When this matter was up as part of the minutes for some time ago, I said that it was a strange matter, and I must say that it has become even more strange now, not least after listening to the views of both the Advance Party, the Workers' Party and the government parties of which of those who have actually won, and who have backed down. If you ever had to define a moving goal, I think it has to be the IT fornebu thing, because here the jam things have moved, and the uncertainties are still what is left as the characteristic. But I have to say that I don't think there's any reasonable doubt that it's the biggest and second largest party in the world through its Document No. Eight proposals have started a process that they had not thought through at all, and that they live by the rather happy sentence that the road gets started while you go. The reality is that they promoted massive criticism in their Document No. Eight proposals that they haven't repeated, and as Steensnæs very correctly said, had clear constitutional leadership. The reality is that in his letter the Minister of Industry has not changed a percentage of the tender documents so critically referred to by the two parties. That is the reality. The majority of the parties that they wanted to realise were fully capable of being realised under the conditions laid down by the Minister of Industry. It just says one thing, that's this whole document number. The 8 proposal was a single big misunderstanding, because it has not been necessary to change the instructions to get to what the majority wants. So what the majority of people do, and that's clearly what the vote is about, is that they just want to forget the whole criticism. But I have to say that if you had first wanted to forget the whole criticism, I think you might as well forget the conclusion of the criticism, namely that the Stortinget will start the proceedings. It should be remembered that that conclusion came because the majority lack confidence that the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Government are doing the job they wanted them to do. They have retained the conclusion, but they have forgotten the premise itself. I said that the uncertainties are continuous here, and I have to say that I still think they are. So if it's like whether it's 30 homes or 1,300 homes, it's an immaterial and unexplained question, it's like a rather decisive ambiguity in such a big case. Another thing that's unclear is, what do the parties really mean by point 6 of the February 25 decision? Here I think there are also things that some of the parties would like to forget. The question is, what is still in the ‘great state participation’? We should not be in doubt that this is the case, we are in the process of having a significant state participation in industrial activities in Norway. The fact that the Workers' Party is doing it is not so strange, but that the Advance Party is doing it is more than strange. And that's extra strange because the Progress Party has tried to draw two images of itself during this year. One is that they've been saying the same thing about political issues for 15 years. That's what Carl I. Hagen said on TV last week. And I have to honestly say that at this point they haven't said the same thing. Here it is a political saltomortal. The party that once went hard against state participation now goes without any kind of investigation into one of the largest state participations in business that we have ever had. The party hasn't said that for 15 years. In addition, Carl I. Hagen has tried to create another picture, namely that all the thoughts he's been thinking, he's always thought first. And I must say to the Progress Party that the idea which is being promoted here of the great state participation is a thought the socialists have thought first. Now that you're thinking differently, it's got to be, but you can't say you've been saying the same thing for 15 years. So that's why we're going to have a clear change of course. And what we see then is the Progress Party we've seen for many years, which jumps and spreads a little bit around the political terrain.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e321	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e324	There are many who claim that the Right is on the sidelines of Norwegian politics, and in this case we get to the extremes documented these statements. Right doesn't really have a point of view about how to develop an industry that we all know is a future industry. In the event of any development in this area as a whole, private initiative should take place at a time when more and more nations are finding close partnership between private and state capital necessary to meet such challenges. And then in a debate where this is very important, the right-wing representative Inge Wohnning sees himself largely in front of the case. I mean to say that after what happened in the morning meeting, I still don't doubt the representative in terms of reward his theological knowledge, but I'm starting to draw a little bit on his theoretical knowledge, because there's no particular doubt that it's going to be more than pious, good and quick comments in a matter like this. My question to Petersen's representative is: Why is the Right against an IT and knowledge centre on Fornebu that now turns out that a large majority of the really big Norwegian companies want – and would like to cooperate with the state, and perhaps just so? Then there must be a failure in Right's industrial policy thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e332	I think it was very uplifting that Opseth now chooses to go back and talk about the very contents of the case, as we did on February 25th, and do not make a single attempt to save this embarrassing Document No. The 8-proposal that he himself has signed. And that's probably an expression that Opseth has also understood that this was a proposal without a basis. With regard to the questions he found he wanted to ask, first of all, I would like to say that in the debate on 25 February, which Opseth obviously does not remember, we explained how we want to develop this center. Here you'll see that we have two main components in terms of continuing training – that's what public institutions are going to bring in, and that's what private exposures are going to bring in. But what's the point of this arrangement is that it takes into account market reactions to what comes out. What is not least the problem of Opseth's proposal is the large housing units, which they are talking less and less about, but which are still under there, and which should not be there. Of course, Opseth’s problem is — he can address all kinds of objections to the Right — that the IT industry itself may be the very top critic of his idea. That's his first problem. It is like the old-fashioned industrial journey that Opseth has grown up in, which still characterizes his reality. But at the entrance of a new millennium, an old-fashioned force-socialist becomes a bit out of place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e341	I thought I would first ask the Right-Chairman some questions about this with the parliamentary system and the views Mr. Gabrielsen and partly his party colleague Inge Wohnning joined the morning meeting, and heard if Right-leader Jan Petersen agreed with them. In this way, the Stortinget, if implemented, will encounter unusually good times, because approx. 80 pst. the amount of the case in this house would no longer exist. And at least we don't want to be presented with a case like what we have received from the Minister of Industry about the use of ownership rights in Norsk Hydro in connection with a share issue or offer, because it's such small things that are under the authority of the Government and that of course the Stortinget is not to be mixed up. Is it really the case that the Right believes that the influence of the Storting should be so enormously limited that we should never decide on the really big issues? Of course, such a major issue is the selection of the company or company structure that will be responsible for the construction, implementation, management and establishment of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu under the decision of the Storting. Sir. Petersen later as if this Document No. The 8-proposal didn't matter. It has got on the rails, normally, this case, and then it is of course the Stortinget that will finally decide which company or company structure should have that particular mission. That's what there's been some doubt about. There's no longer any doubt about it. The Government shall carry out its ordinary business and make its recommendations in a proposition, and then it shall take its final decision. This Document No The 8 proposal was necessary to get it in place. Can't, sir. Petersen at least see that we have achieved it with Document No. The 8-proposal? And as for the distinction and criticism of the Advancement Party on the part of the Right Leader, I take it with a crushing calm. We have always insisted that it is a public task to provide proper education for the Norwegian people, and it simply does not have Mr. Petersen realized about the project at Fornebu.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e353	I have to say that the last comment from Hagen is obviously unprofessional. Because this is not about whether the state should be in charge of education, it knows the Right as an educational party very well, and we have a policy for that area. But what has been the question, and as Mr. Hagen has never been able to answer yet as many times as we've discussed this, is why we're going in with this big state-owned industrial journey. And just that he's not talking about this now, indicates that he's on his way out of it. But when Mr. Hagen says this, it's probably because he perceives all the objections to what he says, as distinguishing himself, and I think the Progress Party, like the second largest party of the Storting, at this point, should show some more maturity. So to the main point of Hagen's posts. It is the majority who, through the decision taken in February, have decided what the procedure should be. Then they found out, because they levelled harsh criticism against the Council of State, that they had to change the procedure. In the meantime, they have forgotten the harsh criticism, but they have remained standing with the very conclusion of this harsh criticism, namely that they want the Stortinge to take over the proceedings. This is a very concrete assessment of the matter we are facing. And I am very surprised that Mr. Hagen asks me about general parliamentary principles precisely on the basis of this. It's about – I would actually give the majority that advice – that they should stand by the procedure they adopted on 25 February. There's something strange about Hagen's posts. Sometimes I wonder if he remembers what he decided on February 25th.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e362	Let me first remind the representative Petersen that this is a line change after his posts, and not mine, because he says that I should answer his questions when I took a line to ask him questions. Just to figure it out. And then I remember the decisions of 25 February in six points. They were all right, until someone started to interpret it, that the government designates the company that is to be commissioned to establish the knowledge centre, until it was not to be presented to the Stortingen for treatment and approval. It was the ambiguity that, among other things, the parties to the government and Mr. Petersen created that when the government was going to do the ordinary job, it was interpreted there that the matter was not to go back to the Stortinget, which is a normal thing, and which of course was in the cards. A Document No was then required. Eight proposals to put this in place. It was in a little sharp wording, so that when it finally came to an agreement between the government parties, the Labour Party and the Advance Party, everyone had something they could say they had won. That's why there were some sharp wordings, so that the government too would be satisfied, when they finally agreed on what was the most important thing to join in on. That, sir. Petersen has not understood about IT education, it is that there is nothing going on as quickly as development there. And if those involved in IT education are to be on top and follow in time, they have to teach at the same time, also work in IT companies. Because if you've been educated four years ago, you're outlawed. It's just the combination of the private, dynamic feature and the public part that's going to be in charge of the education, the connection here, which is one of the positive and sensible things. At least it is clear that, Mr President. Petersen leads a conservative party, because they only live in the old days and are unable to renew themselves into the next millennium – or 1999, which we are now in.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e371	Based on the latest, I have to remind Hagen that the only thing I said about the Progress Party was that they now had to decide – because either they have made a political change of course, and that is in itself okay enough, or this is the same as they have said for 15 years. I'm just saying that it's not like the Progress Party here has shown some clear line, it's just this 180 degree turn, or the salt orthosphere, or whatever you want, for the sake of great state-owned industrial travel that's the new one. And that's all right, but you can't say at the same time that you've been saying it for 15 years. Hagen must also accept that. Otherwise, I must honestly admit that Hagen now improvises quite freely, because what he claims is actually that the employees of the companies out there, almost – yes, it is a requirement for them – will also operate part of the teaching. This gives me some clarification on point 6 of the decision of 25 February, which has been rather unclear. But I'm not sure if this leadership, which is quite concrete, is actually shared by everyone in the majority. Otherwise, I would like to say that his point that it has not been clear how the matter should be dealt with seems to me to be more than strange. In fact, paragraph 1 of the Decision of 25 February 1999 states: ‘Soon and before 1 June 1999 which company is to be entrusted...’ It may mean only one thing, namely that the person who is to implement it will know that it will be implemented and that it will have binding effect. If the majority had thought that the matter was going back to Stortinget, they would of course say so, but they didn't. So here's the majority that's changed in terms of case. Otherwise I agree with Hagen on one point, namely that he did not make any comments. Yes, it is actually one of the shortcomings of this debate that Carl I. Hagen is the only parliamentary leader who is not present here to make a post, and then few line changes afterwards. I can understand, however, that he has chosen not to do so. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e387	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e390	Three months have passed since Stortinget took several decisions on the process of setting up an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu and on its organisation. Not least because the Government of St. Meld. No 13 had proposed any other scheme than that finally adopted by the Stortinget on 25 February, it has been essential for the Government to follow up the decision of the Stortingen as precisely and as quickly as possible. In these three months, a detailed competition basis has been developed within the framework of the Storting Decision and competition has been put in place to present the best plan. I am pleased that many have accepted the challenge of participating in the competition, and that at the end of the deadline, on 18 May, several serious and good plans were submitted for the development of the Fornebu Centre. In today's position, the Government is scheduled to decide by 1 June which actors to negotiate with. As the case has evolved, I think it's a better solution than deciding who has the very best plan by 1 June, which is tomorrow. Among the offers made by stakeholders, there are several planning proposals that are so good and so serious that it is most appropriate to include several of them in further negotiations. I think it'll create the best possible basis for finally picking one of them. One reason is that this case concerns large values that are the property of the community. There is in itself an important reason for further negotiations, as one here is to come up with forms of cooperation that both provide the best IT centre and ensure the sound management of properties for hundreds of millions of dollars. That is the economic aspect. Through negotiations, the State must also ensure that the many other conditions underpinning the Centre will be realised. It is not least that the Centre should operate in an interaction that strengthens the regions and does not weaken them. Furthermore, the Centre shall have the necessary qualities to assert itself internationally and the established public education and training institutions shall have control over their own activities at Fornebu. Negotiations are needed to ensure that attractive and creative proposals in the operators’ planning documents can be put into practice and implemented in practice. However, I think it is right to clarify that the Government was prepared to follow up the wording of the original decision of the Stortinge of 25 February; that one should already designate which company will be commissioned to develop and implement the plans for an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. However, it would make the further negotiations more demanding and would increase the risk that these negotiations would not lead. Much attention has been paid to the EEA rules on distorting State aid in the debate on the Fornebu Centre. I think it is important to establish that these rules are not there as an unjustified formal restriction on the State's freedom of action, but that they exist to ensure that an operator in the market is not given special treatment by the State. These rules therefore contribute to and safeguard competition in business. The establishment of tariffs for the country's properties at Fornebu will be carried out in accordance with the EEA rules and implemented as soon as possible. Taxis will be carried out in the summer after the municipality council in Bærum has dealt with the municipality sub-plan 2 for the area. A municipal plan adopted to determine the use that may be made of the properties is a necessary basis for determining the value of the properties. In line with the proposals for decisions put forward by the Government, the Government will present a major report on the status and arrangements for further negotiations by the end of the spring session. The proposal for a decision on the submission of the case by 1 October at the latest is also in accordance with the reservation made by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade in its requirements and guidelines of 8 April. It states that ‘economic dispositions The Government is not empowered to do so on its own will have to be submitted to the Government for decision’. The Proposition will also include the Government’s decisions on partners and arrangements for the IT and knowledge centre. In my opinion, none of the proposals for decisions here today alters the approach proposed by the various operators and laid the foundations for their participation in the Fornebu Centre competition. It's important, because the state has to be perceived as a predictable party in such cases. I have noticed that the majority in the vote say that they are'something uncertain about the necessity' of the Spøtvoll committee, and that this cost time. In my opinion, the work carried out in the departments from 18 May until today is a result of the detailed guidelines of the Søtvoll Committee, in the framework of the decision of the Storting on 25 February. Without such a concrete competitive base, the Government would face very extensive and difficult evaluation work. The Spjøtvoll Committee also provided the plans for the Fornebu Centre with a stronger professional anchoring in our university and higher education environments. I would like to believe that such a professional anchoring along with the extensive, open debate and the real competition that has been carried out will mean that we will have an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu on which there will be a great deal of excitement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e418	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e421	There was little in the State Council Sponheim's posts that require further clarification, but there may be something in that Council of State that did not say, as there might be reason to ask about it. Today's discussion includes: who is best placed to interpret the Stortinget’s decision, whether it is the majority of the population itself, or whether it is the State Council of Sponheim and the Ministry and perhaps also representatives of the government parties. It is important that we now get to the bottom of the debate whether the Council of State will follow up the requirements and guidelines as set out in the letter of 26 May, when it relates to these three points of further work, or whether this is an attempt to circumvent this by interpretation. There is no doubt that today's plural setting is based entirely on the statements made in the letter of 26 May. So a little bit to this with valuation. One of the decisions in February is still not implemented, and I ask the Council of State: is it not that we could risk getting the case before ESA if we had moved on with just one actor?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e430	The representative, Opseth, asked me to answer the question about who is best fit to interpret a big decision. There may always be different opinions about it, but at least it is the government's duty to base the decision of the Storting and to interpret and comply with it to the best of its ability. The government has also done so in this matter. And would the criticism put forward in Document No. The 8-proposal also came forward in the position of Stortinget today, we might have faced a more problematic treatment of corruption than we are now doing. Then probably more than just I had been a representative from the Government in the inner ring. But notice what has been said about this relationship between the majority of the Labour Party and the Progress Party in the vote today, and I can agree to that. He says: ‘The majority refers to Document No. 8:58 was promoted, inter alia, because there had been a difference of opinion between the majority of the Grand Duchy and the Government on the understanding of the decision of 25 February.» [[1998-99]] The time afterwards has shown that this has been a different opinion, but the government has based its decision of 25 February and interpreted it to the best of its ability. I am very pleased that the stakeholders who have competed on the basis of demands and guidelines have also remained clear within both them and the decision of the Storting. I can confirm that the answers I have given to the Committee, which are printed in today's position on the last page, should of course be complied with. It's a whole thing at all of these points. This concerns the issue where the Government invited itself to join its requirements and guidelines, the assumption that the use of the Terminal Building should be taken into account, and also the question that the area must be subject to negotiation. When it comes to the question of whether we could have problems with the EEA if we first selected one of the stakeholders and then started taxing work, the answer is yes, then we would have problems. This was also said by the Minister of Industry in a reply to the Stortinget on 25 February. Therefore, decisions taken today will also lead us to the right track in relation to EEA treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e442	I would like to express something that very few of those who have made contributions today have talked about. We should all be happy that there are now a number of entrepreneurs, industrialists and investors who want to invest in mainland Norway and in the billions class – it is suggested to be 2, 4, 5 and 6 billion – and that has been quite a long time since the last. This increase has been most concerned with discussing all the billions of Norwegian investors leaving the country, that the figure is much higher than that of foreigners investing in mainland Norway. I'm a little worried about the signals that came from the Government when the Business Committee in winter dealt with the ownership message and the business message. It was a little bit of cosmetics, I'm going to admit it, but something that would really mean something for us to get more jobs, businesses and value creation in mainland Norway, missing, it was quite clear as I and the Progress Party see it. It was mostly an administration of a business policy for moving out of the country, and we see a number of practical examples of that. There was something in Sponheim's posts that it could be good to get an explanation on. He said that within the overall plan, where an IT and competence centre is now to be developed, it was important to strengthen the regions, and that we should also assert ourselves internationally. That's right, it's not just talking about the physical Fornebu. International enterprises shall be drawn to Norway and a network of regions shall be established. Will the Council of State, in its discussions with the relevant stakeholders, ask them to present concrete results of their regional and international efforts for the autumn? And further, how much emphasis does the Government place on these kinds of questions compared to the plans for the physical Fornebu regarding the negotiations with the stakeholders that will be able to develop this IT and knowledge centre? [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e452	The President must advise the representative to comply with the speaking time allocated to him.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e455	The representative Hedstrøm is pleased that today we are in a situation where there are several good stakeholders who want to invest and invest in this exciting business, knowledge and education project related to IT at Fornebu. I'm dividing that position. It has been said in today's debate that this is now on a normal track. What is it really that makes us in a different situation today than what we have been at any other time where this has been discussed in Stortinget? Well, it's the fact that today we're aware that these are good and equivalent competitors, and no one is particularly ahead of others. It means that this is put in a slightly different light, and I fully agree with the representative Hedstrom that we should be pleased. But that wasn't the situation a year ago. Then there was one group that defined all of this alone, and that had a huge leap—no doubt about it, and many were concerned that it was important to take care of it. I have not said that this is the case here in the Chamber, but in the social debate for the rest, President! Today we are in a situation where we have three stakeholders who are very good, and the government then has to deal with just before the evening meeting started today, to hold the deadline of 1 June, picked out three stakeholders to go on with. If it has any interest, I will briefly mention that it is Network Fornebu AS, IT Fornebu AS and Fornebu Technoport. They will be further negotiated in the process that is now under way. This will also be further briefed by Stortingen – the background to their selection and the qualities behind these stakeholders – in a big message that will come before Stortinget takes a summer vacation. In the negotiations that are taking place, it is quite clear that very much attention will be paid not only to the physical construction of buildings and concepts at Fornebu, but to what lies here in the possibility of having ring-effects in the districts, to drawing labour from abroad and to Norway and not just sucking in from the rest of the country. It's crucial, and there's none of the stakeholders that stands out to be the best. There are three that compete very similar at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e460	In the various articles today, many people have started to say that there is a lot to rejoice about – and that is what I was ‘joying’, I kept saying, both on one side of the table and on the other side of the table. When I heard Steensnæs had the word, it was a word that ran in my mind, to bore the water. There's also a way to survive when you're lying there. I have to say that an interesting question, which has become more interesting the more people who have spoken, is this: The government parties say that it is not that the Council of State has changed its view between the letter of 14 April which was sent in response to the Progress Party and the Workers' Party, and the letter of 26 May. One of my questions to the Council of State is whether he shares the government parties' statement today that there is nothing in the letter of 26 May other than what was stated in the letter sent as the original letter of reply. I am aware that there are two interpretations, that of the Progress Party and the Labour Party on that side and that of the government parties on the other side, but does the Council of State feel that this is really the same thing as the two letters say? So to another question, which I think it would be interesting to get a yes or no answer. It concerns the intended situation that this Document No. The 8-proposal had not been made available. Would the Council of State have included in the bill that was to be promoted by the Storting on the issues in which the Government is not authorised to handle the decision on which company was to be expanded – or not? So implicitly, was it the Council of State's view on 25 February that this too was to be decided by Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e469	To the first question, which I have answered in my first answer: I am basing on what is today in the staging position of the majority – the Labour Party and the Advance Party – where they point out that the basis for Document No. The 8-proposal was that there had been a difference in opinion between the majority of the Grand Duchy and the Government on how this decision was to be interpreted. Everyone who follows the social debate has to understand that there has obviously been a different perception here. I feel that we, through what has happened, and through the answers I have given, can now say that there are no longer so many differences in the perception of what is in the demands and guidelines of this centre. And of course you can reflect on whether it was necessary to go that way in order to figure out that the perception was not as different as what it was at a point. I'm going to have an opinion on that later. It is such that when debates take hold, there are rapid distances, and when two outlets from the West meet, it can be hard to get hold of it. I don't ignore the fact that by another way, by communicating in an early phase, we could have made it clear that this was not a very big difference in perception. At least this treatment has now been shown. I am very clear that all that I have answered is in line with what I have always relied on in the requirements. There it seems to be a slightly different opinion. That's what we've been told through this, and the important thing about this treatment seen in the later light, I think the Storting and the Government are now giving themselves some better time to move on with three stakeholders. They're so good, they have so different qualities, that it wouldn't, I think, have given the best result on the government through its decision today had to decide for one of them. I think this process will ensure the best result, and I think that will be the important thing through this treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e476	So for the time being, there are seven stakeholders who have signed up for the current Fornebu Center. The business community has gradually shown great interest in this project, but the interest of the government council Sponheim and his government has unfortunately far inwards. But it's good that this is coming now, and one can repeat that we in the Labour Party are actually very positive that there are so many stakeholders. It confirms what we've been saying all along that this is important. But the process has taken a long time, and time is very important in general in a society in an increasingly rapid transformation and especially in this sector. Does the Council not see that we may have lost valuable time in relation to competing projects in neighbouring countries or other countries in Europe? Then I have to ask if the Council of State's statements imply that he again says that his interpretation is more correct than the great majority's interpretation, that he feels that he is free to interpret his decision. At least I felt that it was hanging in the air. We will be back to April 23rd, when the Council of State replies to a letter from Stortinget: ‘On this basis, I consider that there is no basis for making changes to the requirements and guidelines.’ Have we come into a situation where the majority of people have to go in and tell the Council of State how an interpreter and what do I mean by his own decisions, and could the Council of State feel that he is freer than what is in the premise of this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e488	It is very good for the development of this center that so many stakeholders have signed up. Much of the work that has been done by the Government has been important in bringing forward many stakeholders. I take no further note, and I have no reason to believe anything else, that a total accumulation is happy that we have had a real competition, and that good stakeholders have emerged that it is now to be further worked on. All those who have followed my argument over the last two and a half years on this issue know that I have been genuinely concerned that on such major issues, as important tasks in society as playing a role from the private sector in developing this, it is important to have a real competition. Cooperation is good, but it is also important in a competition to come up with good ideas and good concepts, and to take the best out of people and stakeholders. In fact, I think it's going to show up when the big shot comes and an opportunity to go into the offers that have been made here, that this competition has actually strengthened and improved the concepts that are there, significantly. I think that's the basis for getting there. And then we have the best starting point. It hasn't actually been there before. So to this with the time factor. It is clear that this is complicated and it has taken time. But I'm going to remind you again that the crucial point here – and it's actually been known for a very long time, it's been known at every landfill – is that we rely on Bærum municipality's treatment of the regulation plan in order to finalise, or do the last part of it to get started. We are, of course, in the situation that we are also waiting today to adopt a regulatory plan out there to get a fare, thus establishing the value and creating the final organisation around this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e497	In my first line, I asked the Council of State two questions. He answered one, but failed to answer the other. The question was as follows: See this Document No. The 8-proposal hadn't been promoted? First of all, it would have meant that we had avoided this debate, but the premise that must have been there was that there was a common perception between the majority and the government of what was in the Innst. S. No 99, which we discussed in this Chamber on 25 February. My question is: Was it the opinion of the Council of State Lars Sponheim and the Government on 25 February 1999 that the Government or the Stortinget should select the cooperative company that was to enter Fornebu – an interpretation based on the wording of the vote and the proposal and the debate that followed on 25 February? So the question is: was it the Council of State's opinion that the Stortinget was supposed to take the decision on the partner, or that it was the Government? I hope it was clear.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e504	At least it was the government's and state council's clear view on 25 February that there was not much to go on when it came to the deadline of 1 June. This meant that we immediately threw ourselves around and made a run to be able to comply with this decision by 1 June. It has, in this case, been rustled with the word distrust, but never inside this room, both by direct use of words and by very close use of words. It has been done outside, and it has also been linked to the deadline of 1 June. Then it goes without saying that the government made a significant effort to complete the job by 1 June. As I have said, we were ready for that, too. But now that we've chosen this race that makes it possible to move on with three stakeholders, it's clearly the best thing for the development of the center itself. That must be the most important thing, and not the procedure and the procedure itself. So to the specific question of how I and the government thought about the selection. In fact, a few weeks after this decision, we designed the final specifications of requirements. There we made clear reservations that we had to come back to Stortinget to make decisions that the Government did not have the authority to make. It is the stakeholders who are briefed on the basis of the competition we were faced with. There's a lot of complex questions here, and there's a lot of money involved. It is therefore obvious that the Government has to present to the Stortinget a broad case where all of this appears. It will now be made through a proposition in which all the economic sizes and outcome of the negotiations to be held during the summer and early harvest will be presented to the Stortinget. The Stortinget will then normally be presented with the decisions which the Government wants the Stortinget to take.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e511	President! Can I get the floor for a manifest misunderstanding? It must be the most obvious misunderstanding in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e516	A manifest misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e519	It's an obvious misunderstanding from the Council of State Lars Sponheim.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e527	It must be obvious!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e530	The misunderstanding is quite obvious. I did not ask what the Council of State saw several weeks after 25 February, nor what is stated in the specifications on what had to be done with Stortinget. It is quite obvious that what the government did not have authority to do, you had to go to Stortinget. In any case, we must do so. What I am asking is: What was the opinion of the Council of State on 25 February 1999 as to whether it was the Government or the Stortinget that was going to take the decision on which partner the State should have for the development of the IT centre at Fornebu?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e537	I find it hard to see that there was an obvious misunderstanding, because I mean I answered it. The government took the view that this had to go back to Stortinget, and when the Stortinget gets this case complex back to its final decision, it is of course up to the Stortinget to review the government at the points that it had to do. The government is going to take its decisions at this point, including on selection, and then everything will be put into a proposition that will go to the Storting within the deadlines set today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e542	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e545	It has been said earlier here today that this could be two debates. It may be the debate on the relationship between the Storting and the Government, and it may be the debate on the content of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. The first debate can have no doubt about the conclusion of, no matter what the point of view of Fornebu. It must be such that the decision expressed by the Storting must be followed by the Minister for Industry. One can be skeptical about the centre at Fornebu, but at the same time warm followers of parliamentaryism. And if the two considerations are set against each other, the choice will be simple: a state council must follow the decisions of the magnificence. And it's been unclear whether the council in this case would do that. Now the State Council in Sponheim's letter to the nutrition committee clarify those questions, and thus the side of the matter should be on the trail. So to the other side of this: the content of an IT and knowledge center and the pages of what has created the ambiguity we've had in the last few weeks. Many around the country have had critical objections to such a large-scale effort at an IT and knowledge centre on what is called the best plot in the country, at the heart of the strongest press area in Norway. It is not the case that interactions between business, research and education in the IT field have been invented through the plans of an IT centre at Fornebu. There have been several concerns. Will such a centre bottle up other parts of the country for people with important competences? Will such a centre lead to a subsidisation of IT bet on Fornebu rather than elsewhere in the country? And will such a centre be at the expense of funds for research and education at already established institutions and established business parks in IT? I understand the concern expressed. That is why it is important that we have had and have a proper debate. But the fact that there was going to be a business center in IT at Fornebu is far too clear. And not just that. It also got a break from both the Right and the Center parties together with the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, although it doesn't always sound like this. The process is now focused on the content of this centre, on how to design it. Much of it is clear from the Storting decision, but much is also to be done in the discussions between the State and the private actors. In my view, we are now getting a result that meets much of the concern expressed by the districts outside Oslo. It is possible to obtain a centre working with and not against the IT environment around Norway. It is possible to create an IT centre that creates ring-effects in the rest of the country, instead of sucking in the activities. It is possible to obtain a centre where a lot of private capital is mobilised for a larger IT investment than would otherwise have been achieved, without this IT investment being subsidised rather than IT industries elsewhere. It is also possible to obtain a centre where training is concerned with continuing and top-level training, where the existing public education institutions are in charge, as the Stortinget, on the initiative of the Workers' Party, has clearly stated. The further process will determine whether these ideal objectives are being met. Now it is important that all good forces unite to reap the benefits of such a centre, and to counteract the risks of centralisation that the centre may also pose. It depends on the discussions that you are going to discuss with the parties that the Council of State has now chosen. It also means that we still need to invest in IT education and research elsewhere in the country, and here the current government has not gone. On the contrary, it has been the Stortinget that has gone ahead here, even on the initiative of the Workers' Party. These are the investments that will ultimately determine whether IT research and training elsewhere in the country will have the opportunity to develop further. State Council Sponheim now has the ball. There's been a lot of talk about the process and the game around this. We're going to have to use the same philosophy as the football team. It's not the style and aesthetics that's essential, it's the result that counts. Governments know the rules of the game. He knows where the target is. Now, if he makes sense, it can be a very good result without any more yellow cards being needed. He's already got one, and his director of government knows very well the consequences of two yellow cards in the same game.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e560	There have been two main themes about the establishment of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu: the one is the centre itself, whether we want an IT and knowledge centre, in case of why, and how it should be organised. The second is the Minister of Industry and the Government's willingness to follow up and implement the comments and decisions of the majority of the population. Document No 8:58 and the setting that we are now debating is about the last one. But the debate on the centre itself is also taking place both here and in the media. So there's also a reason to say a little bit about this. In Fornebu, new growth and development will take place in the country’s most central area, with the centralisation that may be in it, completely independent of the creation of an IT and knowledge centre. The question is whether the state should have a hand on the steering wheel when it owes something of what is going to happen here, by taking part in its land and building to get something that the country really needs. Such participation would also be good economic management of the state's property. We need a value creation and new industrial development in mainland Norway. In all of this, knowledge, competence and the use of new technologies become key factors. At Fornebu, we have the opportunity to develop a business, education and research environment that is of international value, and here are private stakeholders who want to participate with capital and competence. We already knew that, and it was reinforced after the bidding round, which now shows a lot of stakeholders. But many were, especially from the Right and the SV, who, in the debate on 25 February, chatted with the whole idea. This centre shall not compete with existing environment and regional development, on the contrary. It shall contribute to strengthening these environments. Competition is not between Fornebu and the rest of the country; competition is between Norway and other countries. When things have ended with the proposal that we are now discussing, that's how I see it, a result of a long towing between the great majority and the government about this center. Already in the 1997 budgetary procedure, a majority was set up to provide an internationally attractive IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu where the State was to take an active part. In St.meld. No 38 for 1997-98, on IT competence in a regional perspective, to ensure that the plots should be offered on the open market without separate leads. This did not accept the large majority. We put in a bunch of statements that the center part was also on. The treatment of St.meld. No 13 for 1998-99, on remaining issues relating to the establishment of the IT centre at Fornebu, however, a new rematch was made, resulting in the decision-making process of the bulk of the population clarifying both the process and the timetable for further implementation, a level of detail which should have been unnecessary if the Minister of Industry and the Government had shown their willingness to follow up what the Storting had previously said. The majority of the population just followed up on what had been said before, but now the center part jumped off. In the debate on the vote, the Council of State Sponheim again expressed its disgust at the proposal of the majority. He said straight out that he was disagreeable in the plural solution. When the Ministry of Economic Affairs sent out demands and guidelines for a centre that was perceived by the majority of the population as going across the majority of the population, the majority had to act as it did. Through the examination of this Document, No. The 8th proposal in the Committee, and by hearing and letter from the Minister of Enterprise, it has been made clear that the Stortinget will now be followed up. In this way it has seemed to be a very useful suggestion. When we ask that matters come back to final treatment in Stortinget at the latest on 1 October, there is no contradiction in the fact that the Government itself has warned that it would present to the Stortinget a matter of financial dispositions that the Government does not have the authority to do. And Sponheim confirmed here in an answer to the representative Gabrielsen that he had also planned on 25 February to present this to the Stortinget. I think this may have been a little surprising for the Right to the Right – nearing a shocking experience – and it undermines much of the argument that the case-speaker has had against this decision, which has also been submitted to the Committee, namely that one should receive a proposal by 1 October. And since we quickly come to terms with other countries, and as the situation now is, it is best to move forward with three or more stakeholders after 1 June to avoid reporting obligations to ESA and to provide better room for action. Now I hope that everyone adds the goodwill to get to the goal with this center as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e577	The speakers who have the floor hereafter shall have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e580	First of all, I should like to address the proposals No. 2 and No 3, which is displayed in the setting. This matter and this debate we have today, you might say drowning in what can be called formalities around the matter itself. The facts of the case were, to the extent decided on 25 February, as to the manner in which this was to be done. The six points indicate quite specifically what the Progress Party and the Workers' Party meant. Now, there has been a slightly different interpretation in retrospect, if you want to formulate yourself carefully, between the Council of State and the majority of the population of what this means. However, the parties must have given each other sufficient concessions through this debate, so that there is some sort of civil peace in the summer, until we get this proposition in October. There have been questions about what it is Right will, and you've asked each other what it is you want. This debate, this vote and the entire debate have been discussed first and foremost. But to repeat what it's going to be on the right hand side of Fornebu, we're going to do the same thing that we meant on the 25th of February, where we're in the Inner East. S. No 99 was with the government parties about what should be done. It was that 8 000 m2 were to be set up for teaching in Terminal Building, which the State would be the owner of and in cooperation with the educational institutions. In addition, an innovation incubator activity was to be established. Otherwise, on 25 February – and the Right believes the same today – we believed that private players are more than capable of and interested in overcoming the expansion that the majority of the population have now instructed the Government to work to become a 50-50 affair at Fornebu. I don't see what's necessary in this to realize the idea of an IT fornebu, preferably with international significance, as the majority tends to put it. However, I must also add to this at the end of the debate that I think perhaps the government parties in the vote and to some extent in this debate have ensured that Sponheim has had a worse day than he strictly deserved in the light of the efforts he has made in the spring on this matter. Opseth stated that he was pleased with the retreat as a result of the great majority of people today are in favour. I've registered that. I also recorded the disagreement that is at least below the surface, and that I have some insight into what is really about. It will be very interesting to see developments here, what is written into the proposition to be dealt with here for the autumn – how much coal is to be thrown and how much it is not to be thrown into the coal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e593	It is clear, as this debate progresses, that the debate is about who is going to be the king of the hill. I'm not so sure if I can be a judge in it, but I've philosophized a little about what would have happened if the State Council Sponheim had come to the Stortinget with suggestions to spend longer time, like we're now going to go in for, to negotiate with more stakeholders than one, and to move on with it, as we're now going to go in for, and if it might be right that some of these stakeholders would also cooperate if they wanted to. If the council had come to Stortinget with such a suggestion, would the Labour Party and the Advance Party have been concerned about listening to the good arguments for this, and agreeing to it, or would they also have been most concerned about being the king of the pile? I think they would have been. But now later the Progress Party and the Labour Party as if it were these things that we are now going to adopt, as this Document No. The 8-proposal they've submitted is about, and it doesn't, of course, do. Document No The 8 proposal is about the old package adopted in February, which has been shown to have weaknesses. It has greater weaknesses than the points that are being corrected today, but there are weaknesses, and it has had the case all along. SV's hope is that the matter may improve gradually. But it's a little motivating to experience that the majority now zealously pursues the details of a upresis vision that should have been far better thoughtful and professionally anchored in a plan for the development of this important area than it has been. A detailed regulation that should have been unnecessary has, for example: Rudihagen said in the post before me. I totally agree with that. So one should have investigated this more thoroughly and had a little more professional diligence before going into this. SV has been against this all along, but we have actually felt confident that the government would better handle the difficult exercise it is to get something reasonable out of this than that big crowd, with its would run in this case, would do. And we actually still believe that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e607	This has been a rather peculiar debate, and it has also had the impression that the representatives have gradually – I think – been the victims of some memory shifts. When I heard Hagen, and now later Rudihagen, one almost got the impression that the government was going to promote a matter for the Stortinget. The Council of State was – I was saying – exemplaryly unclear at that point for the sake of the majority, but it is quite obvious that it has not thought so. When I say that, it's because an important premise on the part of the majority was that the activity should start at the harvest summer, that is. that this case must have been promoted during this spring session, but even the list published on 28 May has no notification from the Government that such a case should be promoted. There is one case from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade that remains, and it is electronic commerce. So now I think we're just going to stop thinking about things in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e613	I wish, on the basis of the debate on IT Fornebu, to raise a few more fundamental questions that I think it might be right to make some remarks. First of all, there is the question of interpreting the decision making process. It has been put forward as a statement raised above discussion that a majority is itself best qualified to interpret a decision – almost that a proposer himself is best qualified to interpret the proposal put forward. In one perspective, of course, there might be something in it. But the situation is that a decision taken by the Storting must be implemented by others than the Storting itself. Regularly, the Government, the Council of State and the administrative staff will implement a decision, in which case it is quite clearly dependent on implementing the decision based on the decision itself and on the premises that it is possible to interpret relatively unambiguously from the committee position and from what is said in the Stortinget. I think it's a little bit important to highlight this. Because if the Storting accepts an understanding that the proposalers – and for that reason the majority in Stortinget – have a kind of primacy to be able to interpret and understand a big decision, it could easily lead one on the wrong roads. You will sometimes have to be very vigilant for fine wording in committee settings, for that matter, if you place decisive emphasis on comments in a position. In addition to the text of the proposal and to the extent that they can be openly identified in the vote and in the debate, a very important element will, in fact, be the intervention of the Council of State in the big debate. In order to take two elements that are important in relation to our case, the State Council Sponheim mentioned in the debate on 25 February that he among other things. would set up the Spøtvoll Committee, what tasks he had planned for the Spøtvoll Committee, and he also explicitly stated that there were issues related to the EEA legislation that had to be addressed further. It is clear that these are important premises in relation to the understanding of a decision on enlargement. There has been a disagreement about some of the understanding, and it is positive that this has been clarified between the bulk of the population and the Council of State. But there's a clarification that has happened, where no a priori stood in front. Finally, the letter from the representatives Opseth and Hedstrøm was a letter from two big business representatives, it was not a letter from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e626	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3510]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e640	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 55 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated so that the Labour Party will have 20 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there should be no possibility of changing the lines after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e647	In the light of the proposal, the proposer points out that a number of waterworks around Norway have eternite water pipes and that this substance is classified as highly carcinogenic. The proposer wishes to have a monitoring of the wiring harness and also a study to demonstrate the link between eternite in water pipes and cancer. This case has been in various forms an innumerable number of times, including. as a question-timer. One may refer to the Minister of Health's letter to the Social Committee of 22 March 1999, which includes: It should be noted that the State Institute of Public Health was already instructed by the then Minister of Social Affairs in 1981 to devote special attention to any disease in relation to asbestos and drinking water, and that the Institute has followed this closely. The Committee is united in the view that it is desirable to remove water pipes from ethernet or asbestos-cement tubes, as it is generally called, over the long term. This kind of renovation is also going on to a large extent, among other things. due to the risk of corrosion and thus a weakening of the strength of the wires. Since 1976, the use of internally unprotected asbestos cement pipes has not been permitted in Norway for new installations of mains networks. The Committee also points out that there are clear environmental and health provisions for the management and remediation of such networks. Professional and health considerations concerning the relationship between asbestos and drinking water include: The Minister of Health referred to Question Time questions, and he has come to the conclusion that there are different assessments made, both from the State Institute of Public Health and the Cancer Register, and that the cause of various cancers has been considered, among others. asbestos. It is clear that asbestos fibres by inhalation from the air can be carcinogenic and develop asbestososis, lung cancer and asbestos cancer in the abdomen. It is likely that occupational exposure to asbestos fibres via air may lead to cancer in other organs, including: the digestive organs. But so is, among others. a large study, known as the Firekeepers’ Study, from 1993, showed that asbestos in water should not be dangerous and carcinogenic. It was shown that these firefighters used water with an asbestos content of 10,000 times higher when it applied to the number of fibres than any other drinking water, and that no increased cancer risk could be found in them. The Committee is aware that in recent years there has been a decrease in the number of kilometres of asbestos cement pipeline – between 4000 and 6000 km earlier in this country. Now there is another 3,000 km of asbestos cement pipeline, which represents about 10 pst. of the total length of the wire. Public health now records waterworks and from 1998 has an annual update. The Committee is pleased that this is being followed up on a continuous basis and with the current assessment, including: by Folkehelsa and also through the research and research carried out by the Cancer Register and others, we believe that this issue raised by the proposer here is well taken care of, and that we have good and proper monitoring. A joint committee therefore proposes that the matter be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e664	There are several causes of cancer. Several studies clearly show that there is a link between inhalation of asbestos fibres from the air and the development of asbestososis, lung cancer and asbestos cancer in the lung and the peritoneum. We were aware of this many years ago, and strict precautions have been taken. It should therefore be thought that drinking water that runs in asbestos - containing pipes could also cause such health risks. Therefore, extensive studies have been carried out on the efficacy of asbestos ingested through the digestive tract. Large population groups that have received significant amounts of asbestos fibres through drinking water show no evidence of an excess incidence of any form of cancer compared to control groups. About one fifth of the total drinking water mains pass through such pipes. There is a complete overview of this in the Folkehelsa register, and it is updated annually, so that we can get an overview of the changes that are being made. It is precisely when working with asbestos-containing materials that some may be exposed to danger. Therefore, strict rules apply to businesses and workers who are required to do the job. The holding must be approved and the workers must have completed training on handling and safety. This is stated in the Regulations of the Working Environment Act as regards asbestos. I have been in contact with the Joint Association's experts in the field, who care for the interests of plumbers, and with the consultation of the professional medical department at the RiT in Trondheim, which was declared by several people to have competence in asbestos-containing materials. He said the exact same thing as Folkehelsa, which is referred to by the ministry, and which is reflected in the position of the committee. In the long term, all these pipes will be replaced, but there is no reason to worry about the danger of having such pipes. There are not many cases that have been investigated and surveyed as thoroughly and followed as closely as this one. That is why the members of the Committee very much agreed on the examination of this matter, that it would be right to attach that protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e675	I thank the Committee for a thorough and conscientious investigation into this issue. This is a question that concerns a large proportion of Norway’s population. As the Committee concludes, significant parts of the pipeline network in Norway have been made up of asbestos pipes. I just raised this question because I have received enquiries from a number of people, especially in the districts, who were simply afraid that cancer that occurs could have its origin in such asbestos pipes. The Committee has now carefully examined this and notes that only 3400 km of asbestos pipes are left. However, waterworks with more than 100 subscribers, waterworks with less than 100 subscribers are not registered. It's probably thousands of miles lying there too. That is why, in my proposal, I believe that all the grids in the country should be surveyed. I was not aware of the large study of janitors that has been carried out. All the guys in this country have eternite roofs, and it's not sementite roofs, but common eternite roofs. Most guys have collected rainwater in the latter. I feel quite reassured when a study of all of these lighthouse guards shows that they have not developed cancer because of this, because, after all, the water pipes are cement-coated inside. But the law that has now been passed on work with asbestos must be wrong when you have to dress like a moonman to pick the tablecloth of his house and take away the roof plates, when they can really only be rinsed with water, and then the problem is solved. I think it has to be seen in the law in general. If asbestos is so harmless that you can actually drink asbestos, then there is something that does not match what is used today. I've got a little bit of a point to make. On boats it was common to use wearers with a little asbestos content to keep the shelf tight, i.e. in the voice tube where the propeller shaft goes out, but it was banned due to cancer risk! Such idiotic rashes may occur when the code is too strict. I have never in my time heard of a boat that has cancer in the neck! I thank the Committee for the work that has been done.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e690	The President would point out that the word 'idiotic' is not a parliamentary expression. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3511]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e700	The store then goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e749	In Case No. 2 introduces no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e756	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Anita Apelthun Seele on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Right, Center Party and Left Proposals No. 2 and 3, by Ansgar Gabrielsen on behalf of Right The proposals from the Right are first contested, then alternatively between the recommendation I and the proposal from the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Left, and then the rest of the recommendations are contested. It'll be opened for voice explanations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e770	I would recommend to the Right-wing Group, and to everyone else, to vote in favour of the No. 1, 2 and 3 and for II, and vote against I, III and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e775	I would urge the SV Group to vote in favour of the proposal No. 1 and 2, for II and against the rest.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e780	I would recommend the Christian People's Party to its representatives and to the extent that the whole centre is to vote for proposal No. 1, where we ourselves are proposers, except for II, III and IV and against the rest.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e785	Proposal No. 2, from the Right, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to designate which company or companies are to be entrusted with the development and implementation of the plans for an IT and knowledge centre in Fornebu, based on the procurement and the requirements specified by the Government itself.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e799	Proposal No. 3, from the Right, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit as soon as possible a proposal to the Storting on the financial arrangements for the establishment of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu, which the Government considers it is not empowered to do on its own.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e819	Here, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Left have presented the following proposals: ‘Document No. 8:58 [[1998-99]] There will be a vote between the recommendation of the I and the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-31-2.ana.ud192e858	Here you have the Right and the Left Party notify that they will vote against.
