ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e43	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Peter Angelsen State Council Eldbjørg Løwer State Council Jon Lilletun State Council Dag Jostein Fjærvoll The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. Some representatives have signed up in advance with a request to ask questions. Representatives who, in addition to them, are interested in asking questions are asked to rise. - Thank you. We will then start with the first main questions, from the representative Anne Helen Rui.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e65	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. The Working Party and the Right have formed a majority who have agreed that new motor torpedo boats should be built. In the context of both the June long-term communication and the 1999 budget, we have joined forces and asked the Government to come up with a decision-making basis in 1999. In St.meld. No 23 states that this can be done in 2003 at the earliest. What is the technical reason why the message says you have to wait to build the MTBs because the development of the maritime missile has not come far enough?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e72	It is quite right, as the representative refers to, that the Right Party and the Labour Party have made up a majority who have wanted the MTBs to be prioritised from the year 2000. From the viewpoint of the Government, it has not been possible within the financial framework of the long-term communication and the priorities proposed in St.meld. No 23, to bring this forward earlier than about 2003. In the opinion of the Council of State, there are two ways of resolving this: either by shifting other projects out on time, making a different priority than the defence itself has proposed, or by increasing the overall investment framework. With regard to the professional assessment, which is also affected several times by the Council of State, the need to test the target missiles parallel to the testing of the new MTBs in order to see that they work well together. The aim of the Council of State is to avoid making wrong investments, which can only be undone in the next round without being able to do anything about it. That is the basis for his statement that these two acquisitions should be seen in parallel.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e81	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In the light of what the Minister has now said, I wonder if the Minister could come to Stortinget with a statement on how the development of the new maritime target missile affects the projects of the new frigates.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e88	Of course, the Council of States can do that, and is prepared to do that. What I've tried to underline over and over again is the parallelity in time. I have no doubt that the target missiles are capable of carrying out their task, but that is the ship-missile combination I am looking to have tried in parallel, so that we do not carry out the investments in a large number of MTBs that in the next round would not be entirely equivalent to those we want for the missiles, and the ship-missile combination. I am fully aware that these two things can be adapted along the way. My starting point is that we should not make misinvestments when we invest in new MTBs this time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e95	Can I just say that...
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e100	That's no reason. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e103	I ask questions to the Minister for Fisheries. The Minister for Fisheries has taken the right to commit himself vigorously so that the Schengen Agreement does not lead to centralisation and distortion of competition between Norwegian fishing ports. Clearly, it has been the Storting's clear premise that this would not happen when the agreement was put in place, and this has been given clear support from the Right. And the Government has expressed its recommendation for the Schengen Agreement with a single exception, which is the Minister for Fisheries himself. However, Angelsen’s opinion has caused a number of fears and concerns, especially in the fisheries industry, fear of a reduction in the number of border ports. The Minister of Justice has referred to Angelsen's statement as creating confusion, misunderstanding and fear, and says that this is a Norwegian internal issue. My question is then: are the misunderstandings that have arisen, now caused by the road, and can Angelsen state that he is in favour of this agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e113	The President shall pay particular attention to the fact that questions shall be asked within the time limit laid down in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e116	I'm only allowed to make a modest apology. The timer did not work for me in this case. It was at zero all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e121	A zero is still a zero, it has the President's understanding!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e124	Let me just say to the so-called ambiguity that the representative Ivar Kristiansen pointed out, that this is not the case. Of course, as long as the hearing note sent by the Ministry of Justice was an open document, questions were asked by the industry by the presentation made in the draft consultation on the Schengen acquis. And in this code, the starting point is that it's going to be 100 pst. physical checks on persons from non-Schengen countries. It will, of course, affect the fishing industry in particular, and that is why there was one issue that was open to the media. The Minister for Fisheries believes that he has not contributed to creating ambiguity, but rather to clarify what it is all about. In the Government, we agree that we should try to bring forward a control system that we will present to the Schengen institutions for approval, which will mean that there will be no significant difference between the control regimes and what we have of national controls today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e129	The President has recorded that the timer has failed this time too. We're going to try to do this manually until we get the technique right, and then the president is going to try to guide when the time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e132	It was nice. I thank you for your answer. At the outset, let me just say that there must soon only be some leading forces in the Central Party who believe that the Minister for Fisheries has not created a number of confusions and fears in this matter. At the same time, I must express my joy at the fact that it seems that, after some internal rounds, the Government has now been able to assemble its legs, and I note that the Minister for Fisheries here clearly states that he too is in favour of the Schengen Agreement today. I think that will be noted to a special extent in Coast Norway, to the delight of the fishing industry. If I misunderstand, I recommend Angelsen to correct any misunderstandings that still had to flow around.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e139	Yes, I think the representative Ivar Kristiansen has to make significant misunderstandings. The size has adopted the Schengen Agreement, and I have in no way expressed my opposition to the agreement. The decision has been taken by the Government as a college and we as government councils have only taken note of it. However, Stortinget made a premise in its decision, namely that the agreement should not have any commercial consequences. And I think I have a duty as Minister of Fisheries to clarify that the Schengen Agreement does not have any economic impact on the fishing industry, so that the Stortinget can be fully informed when the implementation of the Schengen acquis in Norwegian law is presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e144	Admits Gabrielsen to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e147	I'm not going to drill any more in the confusion that may or may not be, it can actually just increase the confusion. That there have been some conflicting statements in this matter, there is no doubt about it. But what is important now is that the Council of States is given a chance to make it clear whether the following statements are correct or not: ‘The Schengen Agreement gives us full national freedom to decide which ports should receive Russian cod.’ Is it the case that the freedom under the Schengen Agreement is available, or is it the case that we do not have that freedom? Is it up to us what resources we will put in place to avoid the distortion of competition to which we could otherwise be subjected, as the Minister for Fisheries has quite rightly pointed out?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e157	The Schengen Agreement is without prejudice to the carriage of goods, which port it may enter in Norway. The Schengen Agreement concerns checks on persons from third countries entering Norwegian ports. And initially, the Schengen Agreement says that these persons must undergo so-called physical checks at certain border crossing points and during their opening hours. So there's a question how flexible we can do that. And the government's starting point now is that the control authorities should be mobile so that a ship does not necessarily have to enter a so-called border port before going to the port to which the consignment is to be delivered. That's our starting point. So we expect it to be accepted, despite the somewhat limited way it's expressed in the agreement itself.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e162	Rita Tveiten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e166	After hearing the Minister for Fisheries at the NRC today early on, it is clear that he has changed his position in relation to the previous alarming statement on the damage to Norwegian fishing industry in relation to the Schengen Agreement. The question is: is it not unfortunate that a government council is issuing such a strong signal in a case where he obviously does not have enough overview, and what is the Minister for Fisheries aware of today that he was not aware of on 8 January, when he also spoke to the NRK?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e171	Now it is the case that the questions that are asked to me are linked to the draft consultation that the industry itself has read and that, to the extent that the media has also intervened in. My response has been in a way in front of the response round that the Ministry of Fisheries will have on that draft consultation. As far as I know, the draft response from the Ministry of Fisheries will be delivered today. It will then be available, and there will be a summary of the opinions I have given earlier, clarifying what the scheme should be like in the future in order to safeguard the interests of the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e176	Per-Kristian Foss – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e179	The Minister of Fisheries's answers to this question and media behaviour this year have fully demonstrated that it is impossible for a government to act as a public discussion club in the treatment of an international agreement. It weakens Norwegian interests. And it is not right that the Minister for Fisheries is now trying to claim that his previous opinions have gone on a draft consultation. He has stated very clearly to the radio that the Stortinget can reject the agreement, and I assume that the Stortinget should not deal with a draft consultation, at least not on behalf of the Ministry of Fisheries. So the Minister of Fisheries himself has contributed to ambiguity, and I must be allowed to stress that there is no ambiguity in the opposition parties, it is in the government parties. A representative of the Central Party of Government has said: ‘Large parts of Norway are going to be razed by this proposal.’ Will the representative of the Central Party of the Government contribute to eliminating this ambiguity and ensure that the Government acts in a reasonably coordinated manner, at least in the course of examining a proposal to the Grand Duchy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e189	Now I have not said what Stortinget will do, but I assume that the representative Foss agrees that the Stortinget has the freedom of action to assess the agreement if it does not comply with the assumptions made on the basis of the Stortinget shipping agreement when the agreement was adopted. That's actually the comment Foss refers to. I just want to assume that the Stortinget will assess in detail whether the agreement will be good enough for Norway when we are implementing the Schengen acquis into Norwegian law. Otherwise, I have nothing else to say, if the Storting has perceived it as creating confusion, than that as long as a draft consultation between the departments and in the Government is a publicity, it is also a discussion theme for people out there who feel concerned about the matter. In this context, it is the fisheries industry that has mainly raised the discussion and it would be unreasonable if the Minister for Fisheries were not to answer the questions asked to him.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e196	The Presidents have reason to believe that the timepieces of the interlocutors are now working. If the opposite is the case, the president asks to be made aware of it. Steinar Bastesen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e201	The Schengen Agreement means that there are only a few border crossing points that can be used. It also applies to the Norwegian fishing fleet, not only to vessels from third countries. The sea fishing fleet shall be treated in the same way as vessels from third countries. So it is said by other representatives that this is a great advantage for the Norwegian fishing industry. What advantages does the Minister for Fisheries see in the sea fishing fleet when you have to wait at the border crossing point from 1 p.m. 4 o'clock in the afternoon. 9 next morning? And that will also apply to the coastal fishing fleet, if one is outside the four-mile zone more than two-three days. What does the Minister for Fisheries intend to do to make this an advantage for the Norwegian fishing industry? As a fisherman, I see no advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e206	With regard to Norwegian vessels and Schengen vessels, I see no problems related to the control regime that is now being established. But in the case of third-country vessels, the reason why we have seen it as a problem when reading the text of the Schengen Agreement is that we have a significant landing of catches from foreign vessels. It is ships from so-called third countries, it is Russian, Scottish, Faeroese and Irish vessels, which in 1997 delivered between 300 000 and 400000 tonnes of fish to Norwegian plants, to nearly 2 billion kroner. There is a significant resource on which the Norwegian fishing industry and the fishing industry depend, and therefore we have made a significant effort to ensure that the landing of third country vessels is not affected in a discriminatory manner by the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e211	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e214	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. Our fish farmers are struggling on the EU market. Due to many restrictions, market access is restricted. In this situation, the Council of State goes out and proposes a reduction in feed quotas for 1999, while at the consultation meetings with the representatives of the European Commission it receives a requirement – in the light of Angelsen’s proposal for reduced feed quotas. A unanimous farming industry is opposed to a reduction in feed quotas and believes that this is an internal Norwegian concern and the EU Commission is not competent. What is the reason why the Council of State has proposed a reduction in feed quotas for 1999?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e223	The Norwegian Government and the EU Commission concluded an agreement on the export of Norwegian salmon to the EU in 1996 and that agreement provides for the annual increase in Norwegian exports of salmon to the EU to be within 10 pst. In 1998 and 1999, exports are expected to increase beyond 10 pst. It is linked to the collapse of some markets, so that exports have gone to the Union market to a greater extent. And then Norway is obliged to take action to stay within the scope of the agreement. The only instrument the authorities have for regulating production is the size of feed quotas. Feed quotas have been part of the regulatory system since the establishment of the agreement. At the beginning of 1998, it was estimated that due to the market situation in other markets, there could be an increase in feed quotas and production in Norway and, nevertheless, to keep us in growth of 10 pst. to the Union market. Unfortunately, this situation has changed, and it is therefore expected that we will have to take action by the authorities – and as I said, the feed quotas we have to deal with there. I can add that the industry itself has proposed that the regime we have for the feed quotas with flexibility from year to year with the transfer of a certain number of tonnes for each concession should be removed from the feed quota system, so that we get a reduction anyway. But we're going to have meetings with the industry in the near future to discuss how we're going to solve the situation. If a solution is not initially found with industry, regulation of feed quotas is the only means of fulfilling the agreement with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e235	The President makes it clear that there are still irregularities in time regulation, so we have to try to do it manually in between.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e238	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased that there will be consultations with the farming industry and flexibility. It is now the case that the farming industry has based its production in the current year on the feed quotas and framework conditions it obtained last year. In any case, in the short term, reduced feed quotas will mean greater depopulation, greater market supply and will be counterproductive, which is to give less salmon in the international European market. Will the Council review its position on reducing feed quotas for 1999 as appropriate?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e243	As I said, if we come to an agreement with the industry that leads to a real reduction in production, I don't see any problem in finding a solution. Let me just say it this way: there is not a complete consensus in the farming industry about how to solve the situation. There are significant groups which have notified to the Ministry that the feed quotas should be reduced and that it was in so far as it was in the Management Board of the Breeding Association when it dealt with the matter and recommended to the Ministry what action should be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e248	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e251	I will be asked a question to the Minister of Labour and Administration. It's winter and cold, and we know there are hundreds of people in Oslo without housing. It is unacceptable, and everyone has to contribute. The state owns a lot of building mass, and not everything is in use all the time. Something can be empty for many years. The Council of State would like to look at the country's property stock and see if it is possible, for example: in cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo, to make some of the building mass temporarily available so that you can get an immediate accommodation for people who don't have a roof over their heads?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e258	It was a surprising question, but it was a challenge that I choose to take. I can imagine contacting the Minister of Social Affairs to see if she has done anything in this area in cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo. So my immediate answer is that I will evaluate this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e263	I thank you for the answer and also for the immediate response. I understand that also for the Government the situation is unacceptable. As it is now, everyone has to contribute. We have to stop looking at administrative levels and at sectors, and also stop being so rules-oriented that we can't solve the most elementary problems for people. As the Council of State is obviously concerned about this issue, I want to follow up a bit. The state is also a major property on the site. Could the Council of State consider assessing its land policy in relation to making land available, so that it was possible to build cheaper dwellings in Oslo, for example. to students or to people who have trouble paying the rent that, among other things. Is it because the land costs are now so high?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e270	The State through Statsbygg and the Municipality of Oslo have cooperation projects that are involved in the development of areas and also discussions on land – that discussion is in progress. In recent times, the government has provided almost free land for the development of student housing, so the government has made a contribution to getting student housing in which it is economically possible to live without the land cost being what overturns such projects. There we have given our contributions, and I do not rule out that we can do it several times.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e275	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e278	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. Last year we got new regulations for the North Sea rays. That means we should have approx. 45 full-year vessels with main sandeel and oar fishing – a sound and forward-looking level. But what happens next? Well, shortly after the new regulations have come into force, the Minister for Fisheries will allow one of the ten-twelve boats that have both a North Sea and a ring-note concession to split up the two concessions, i.e. allocate the concessions to two vessels. This has produced strong reactions in Coast Norway. Does the Minister for Fisheries believe that this procedure is in line with the main objective of Norwegian fisheries management on a balance between the resources of the sea and the capacity of the fleet? And does the Minister for Fisheries think that this procedure is in line with the intentions of the new North Sea Ray Regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e285	I don't really understand the problem. The split to which reference is made is based on the transfer to another existing vessel of the North Sea trawler concession which was on the vessel with the North Sea trawler permit and the continuation of the North Sea trawler permit on the old vessel. In this respect, there is no increase in capacity in what has been done here in connection with the replacement of vessels. What might be in question is that of course the operating base of the North Sea trawler became weaker, but there is no increase in fishing rights for North Sea trawling.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e293	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have to say I totally disagree with what he says in the answer. It must be beyond doubt that the split of concessions, regardless of the fleet group involved, leads to an increase in capacity. With one vessel, one can, after all, only be in one place at a time and fishing on one concession; with two vessels, a few two full-year concessions will be allowed to fish. What is now interesting is whether the Minister for Fisheries has opened up a new practice on the basis of a principle of equality. Will he then open up that the other ten-twelve combined boats in this group, if they apply for the same, are also allowed to split? And what's even more interesting is: does this mean that the Minister of Fisheries now, on a more general basis, has opened up the division of concessions within Fisheries Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e302	Let me just say it this way: there is no provision in fisheries legislation that prevents such a fragmentation of concessions; it can be a political stance. In this case, the emphasis was placed on regional policy considerations. I assume that the representative referred to – at least I know only one thing – concerned a vessel from the North Sea, out in Smøla, a fishing area that has lost a lot of concessions and where we are trying to find flexible solutions for regional policy purposes. When it comes to the division of concessions in general, I think there will be little interest in the vessel owners who normally sit by ship to split and take concessions from individual vessels. We're considering this as a case-by-case, which it might show up several of. We'll then, when a concrete matter is on the table, consider what will be right. I cannot see that this is a problem in relation to North Sea trawling, which is today an unregulated fishing in the sense that there are no quota arrangements. All vessels may fish freely and Norway has its quota, in cooperation with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e309	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e312	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: Last year, the number of those seeking civil service instead of military protection increased by 21 pst. In parallel with this, we are constantly told that those who do civil service are given assignments that are worthy of the wider career, while not for those who do military service. We also see that it is very difficult to get people to international military operations. And my question to the Minister of Defence is, what will he do to increase the status of both military security and service in international operations?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e321	Now, the Council of State is going to answer a question that lies in the border country in relation to a question a little later in the ordinary Questionnaire, from the very representative of Godal, so I'm going to try to avoid repeating where I have to say what I have to say here. Governments are very concerned about what the media is now clarifying, namely that we are in the situation that we can get a reduced intake at first-time, the ordinary first-time service, which is, in all likelihood, compulsory by law and by law. I have always experienced it this way, and I thought it so, that the Swedish Civil Protection Agency and the Civil Protection Act are aimed at the military defence of Norway and therefore form the basis for each of the male population to give one year of its life to prepare for the defense of the country. However, those who are military negotiators for reasons of conviction should, of course, be offered a different offer. This has been achieved up to now through what has been known as civil service and which will be called civil protection obligations for the future. I am committed to raising the status of military guardians, both in terms of allowances, in terms of repatriation arrangements, and in terms of the general status and understanding of the Norwegian community for the job being done, and in terms of the need for the job being done. I am concerned and need to address it in the Government if developments in this area are to be negative in terms of the relationship between military protection obligations and civil protection obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e330	The council answered the first question, and I would like to ask the following additional questions: When can the Storting get something from the Government on this? The second issue was international operations and what the Council of State will do to ensure recruitment there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e337	In the case of international operations, a new agreement has entered into force from 1 January, where an additional bonus, a supplementary scheme, makes it more attractive both to participate in international operations and to stay out of the period. The fact that contracts have been broken in the course of six months' exposure has been a problem similar to that of the recruitment problems involved in international operations. In other words, we believe that the new agreement that has now been implemented will be much more favourable than the previous one. We need to motivate our forces to engage in international operations, and I hope and believe that the challenge of such an engagement, we can all be involved in highlighting far stronger than we have done to date.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e342	Inge Wohnung – for additional questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e345	It is gratifying to hear that the Minister of Defence is committed to upholding the principle of general protection. My question is: will the Minister of Defense then take the initiative within his own government to remove the rather confusing terminology introduced by the Government by talking of ‘civil duty of protection’ as an equal alternative to military duty of protection? This is a terminology that gives the impression that these are optional, equalized alternatives, and that civil service is not the use of a reservation right. Will the Minister of Defense do anything to clear up this confusion?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e350	It is The Storting and the majority of the Storting who have decided both the concept and the content of the matter, so I will not go into the depth of it. In my view, however, it is quite clear that legislation is based, and we have consistently based on protection obligations, that it is the defence of Norway that is the basis of a duty of protection. Those who, for reasons of persuasion, want to perform alternative service because they do not see themselves able to carry weapons, must, of course, have the opportunity to do so, and have the right to do so when there are reasons for persuasion. But it is not that the future civil protection obligation will be equivalent to military protection obligations. It is derived from the concept of compulsory protection in legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e355	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e359	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. In the media in recent times, it is made so that the defence minister wants to push the defense fighter aircraft project out in time, and that he is also open to purchase fewer aircraft than planned. My question to the minister will then be: Will he clarify and specify what he means by «to push out in time» and clarify whether he now believes anything other than what St.meld. No 23 contains?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e366	The council believes the same thing today that he meant before Christmas when he and the government put St.meld out. No 23rd Last@item: As shown by both St.meld. No 22 for 1997-98 and St.meld. No 23, to which it has just been referred, the defense plans to acquire new aircraft to replace F-5 and lost F-16, and I intend to submit the project to the Stortinge in the spring investment proposition, which then comes in April-May. According to the timetable set for new fighter aircraft, the requests for the two current candidates, Eurofighter and F-16, will be sent out by February this year, and the offers will be available by month of May-June this year. The Air Force Supply Command will evaluate the offers, conduct contract negotiations and promote a recommendation to the Defence Command and the Ministry before Christmas. The final decision is expected in January-February 2000 at the end of the month. The contracts entered into in 2000 with the possibility of delivery for the period 2003-2007 are in line with the investment profile of St.meld. No 23rd Last@item: In parallel with the procurement process, efforts are being made to establish industrial cooperation. Obligatory industrial cooperation with both candidates is assumed. In the request for new fighter aircraft, which will be sent out in a short time, we are going to ask for offers based on different time periods for delivery. This is done to have alternatives, while giving us the different consequences. Regardless of the delivery period, it is planned by the Defence and Ministry that the choice of supplier and the conclusion of the contract will take place early in 2000. When I've been so accurate and used partial manuscripts in this context, it's because these major projects, both the fighter aircraft purchase and the frigate project, relate to relations with other countries, to contractors, to suppliers, who today, according to the debate, can easily read signals that the Council of State does not want to give without there being any basis for it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e377	The long-term message reads: «Air rule is of great importance to all defence operations in war. This makes the area air defence the highest priority of the invasion and territorial defence.’ As a prerequisite for this, it goes on to say: ‘Combat aeroplanes are the basic prerequisite for raising sovereignty in their own airspace. Kampfly has extreme speed and flexibility. This is particularly important in Norway with our particular topography and long distances.’ State council believes that the pace of the investment profile in St.meld. No 23 does what is referred to here satisfy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e392	From the point of view of the Council of State, I cannot see that there is any contradiction between what is now referred to, what is stated in St.meld. No 23, and what the Council of State has said in retrospect. That government council is very concerned about, is that we should not get so-called black holes in our investments, as part of our neighboring country has got. That is why I have clearly stated that the frigates stand as a fixed point in the investments. If we do not want to adapt the operation of the defence to the level foreseen in the long-term communication, to which we have committed ourselves in relation to the investments, some projects must be pushed. The projects that must then be pushed on are described in St.meld. No 23rd Last@item: And so when the frigates are as a fixed point, it can be read by St.meld. No 23 that fighter aircraft may need to be pushed on in respect of the delivery period and in respect of phase-in. This will be briefed by Stortinget during the year, and both the frigate project and the fighter aircraft project will be presented to Stortinget this year. So we go into exciting times.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e397	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e400	The investment profile, presented after the long-term announcement, shows an enormous investment need in the defence sector, and it is not only SV who believe that this is both undesirable and impracticable. The head of the Defence Research Institute, Nils Holme, says that it is impossible to afford all of this at once. If you put in place one plan without considering the whole, you will not get money for other important tasks. This is a bag and bag strategy that simply cannot be implemented. Does the Minister of Defense think that the assessments made by the Defence Research Institute are not related, or is it actually such that there is a gap too high, and that there are now more coincidences that determine what is being invested in, rather than a uniform defence policy strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e409	No, it is not that it does not become a uniform investment profile – on the contrary. What Holme presented in his lecture in Oslo Military Society, was the situation over a 20-year period. What has been prepared in St.meld. No 23 is just that we can't get both bag and bag. Therefore, the different projects have been phased in in relation to each other, and it has been explained that if we do not manage to keep the level of investment and the level of operations in context, as we have explained in the long-term communication – that is, St.meld. No 22 for 1997-98 — investment projects will have to be pushed out in time. So we're not going to go into both the bag and the bag, but we're going to say that now we have to make the investments that we've been pushing ahead of ourselves for years. I should have liked to have seen, as a state councillor, that it was not my lot to present the two largest investment projects in the defense ever – at the same time. But we're there today, and now we have to make some decisions that can be challenging.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e414	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e417	I have a question for the Minister of Church, Education and Research. The Ministry has recently approved an application for a private primary school of the Church of God in Ørsnes, Lofoten. This is the second school of its kind in the region. As a direct consequence, the municipal primary school is laid down, and 20-30 students lose the offer and must start busing. Here we are talking about a sect that local media have revealed stands for countless abuses, among other things. – and perhaps the worst – that you refuse deportees to participate in the funeral of their closest relatives. There has been a unison local resistance to the establishment of this school. Both the State’s education director and, not least, the Vågan Municipal Government, which has unanimously decided to oppose, have appealed the decision, among others. because the members of the sect do not have independent rights and can only be heard by the senior priest. Does the Council not believe that local considerations and local priorities need to be included in the assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e428	First of all, I would say that there are quite serious debts presented by the representative Norvoll on the basis of newspaper writing. I don't want to go into those statements in reality. We have had discussions with representatives of several parties, and have no basis for saying that this is the case in this specific case, as the representative Norvoll claims. The local government has announced that they will appeal, and of course we will deal with the matter in a serious and good way, according to which the views and objections of the local government are to be properly taken into account. Therefore, I will not go into the matter more specifically. But what I want is basically to say that international conventions are very clearly establishing parental rights. And then it is that parents in this threat society, as in other endangered communities, have the right to decide the assignment and training of their children. What is the responsibility of society is to ensure that curricula and the quality of training are such that when the education is completed, the children align themselves with other children. The issues that lie in a difficult frontier country, both the department's case handlers and the political leadership, and based on an overall assessment, we came to the conclusion that we did, but we come back to the case when the appeal is to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e437	With regard to my accusations or accusations against this congregation, they are thoroughly documented, not least from members who have been cast out of there, or have received and withdrawn. They have made statements both in the media, to me personally and to others about how it has been. Part of what they've said is so gross that it's not suitable for the Storting's pulpit. The municipality of Vågan has now appealed the case, and my point is that local conditions must be included in the assessment. What the Municipality of Awake! writes is that the kids are not allowed to participate in the ordinary community, and that this means that the kids are not getting a proper upbringing. I have to be allowed to ask whether it is not also for the sake of kids to draw child protection into the picture in this context, when you know what's going on in a part of the homes and in the school that already exists.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e445	As I said, I will not go into the assessment of an appeal that we have been notified will come, but that at that time was not formed – I have not seen what the municipality writes. But, of course, we're going to take proper care of it and go into the anchor carefully and look at all the aspects that underlie it, and there, the Municipality of Awake!, is going to be serious about drawing. When it comes to the existing school, we've gone in and looked at the supervisory visits that have been there, and there's no evidence that it's not a thorough and proper education that's being given there. That's why I have no reason to say that the school is run so that the children are not well equipped to participate in society otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e452	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e455	I want to ask a question to the Minister of the Church, Education and Research. There is a lot of good happening in Norwegian schools, but sometimes we get reports that show that there is a serious lack. The government's own department has just had a great deal of research into readability, and it shows, among other things. that 6,000 or 7,000 people go out every year with such poor reading skills that they will have problems getting along. The same investigation also shows that 30 pst. By the 9th grade students, they say they like the poor or very bad in the early school. From the right-hand side, we're very serious about this. I hope that the Council of State also takes a serious look at it, and I would like it confirmed. If the answer is yes, what will the Council of State do to solve these problems?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e464	It is important that we take a look at these matters, and I am grateful that the representative Løvik is involved. First to some positive things in the investigation: 45 pst. by the students in the school, read a book in the week. It's phenomenal. I think we're coming very high internationally. I wonder if they can say that they are. Based on what the representative Løvik said, it's 70 pst. who enjoys well or very well in the school. It's also fun, and we don't get out of there badly internationally either. But that 10-15 pst. not to read properly enough so that they can manage when they are finished, and that so many well-being poor, are quite serious. We started these tests just to get the problems on the table, so that one could go into them thoroughly and take action. These are diagnostic tests, and these are tests that also have to be a tool for individual bullets and that we have to be able to get national overviews. We are currently developing a system of national assessment, which should serve as an objective to help each school class and each school, to provide the municipalities with an overview, and we are going to be able to get an overview at national level. The knowledge is to shape this as a tool that makes both the students, the teacher and we get knowledge. At the same time, you must not overbureaucratise your Norwegian school. You need to get as much information as you need at the different levels, and then you need to change and set action in relation to what is negative. What we've got so far is this investigation. We're analysing it, and when we get to the Storing with the big news, we're going to talk about it and make suggestions for action.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e471	I thank you for your answer. I started my question by stressing that it is very good, but that does not mean that we should not look seriously at the problems. When it applies to the element of well-being, it's correct that 70 pst. Happy in the youth ball. But if one goes a little further into the school, one will find that in the second class thrives 40 pst. by the students very well. This number is down to 8 pst. in the youth sphere. If you look at those who are directly disgruntled, this increases from 18 pst. in the second class to 30 pst. in the youth sphere. Then there's a reason to ask, isn't there something about the school itself that could be the fault of this? It's not time we did something about the youth ball, that we made it a little bit more exciting, a little bit more customizable, for example. to get a combination where, in addition to some mandatory subjects, one has greater ability to choose some in-depth and optional subjects, to make it more customizable for the individual?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e478	It's nice to notice how the representative Løvik has already gone into the material that the department has sewn for coming to the table. I agree with the representative, Løvik, that there is reason to look at the youth ball. I believe that with the reforms we have had – Reform 94, with all the remarkableness that was there, and Reform 97, which went on the whole floor, but which was a very big discussion about the 6-year-olds – the youth ball has been lying in a grey zone. Well, there's a reason to go in there, because there's some kind of change that's going to make it more exciting. Opening up so much project work makes it possible for the representative, Mr. Løvik, to do exactly what he wants. But then it's asking whether we've seen the teachers well enough to do it. Have they been sufficiently well educated, and have they been well equipped for youth? I'm concerned that the youth ball is that part of the base ball that needs to get the most attention in the future. Then I hope that we will work together to find good solutions to that very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e483	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e486	I want to ask the Minister of Church, Education and Research a question. When examining the State budget on 30 November 1998, Stortinget adopted: «The Government is requested to take the necessary steps as soon as possible to meet the Storting's assumption that the State Loan Fund for Education is to offer fixed-rate loans.» On 1 January 1999, the interest rate increased from 5.1 pst. to 7.2 pst. On 1 March 1999, interest rates will rise further to 8.6 p.m. For young people in the start-up phase, this means increasing expenditure which may be difficult to deal with when interest on other loans also increases. In the major debate on the budget of the Education Committee on 10 December 1998, the Council of State said that the Department is working on this matter. And my question to the Council of State is, When has the Council of State thought that the customers of the Loan Fund should receive visible evidence of this bombing? So, when does the offer of fixed interest come?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e500	It's not always the most constructive thing to say 'what did I say' when one discusses politics. However, there are sometimes temptations, and this time I cannot resist the temptation. The fact that the Labour Party and the Right made a compromise on the introduction of market interest rates has led to a dramatic deterioration in the situation for both those who are students now and those who have finished studying. One thing was that one particular thing, but what was worse, was that one hadn't done a proper analysis of the size of the loan case, and how the fixed interest rate scheme could be combined with the social arrangements in the Loan Fund. If one of them introduces a standard fixed rate scheme, which is bound, then one of them will be an example. in the event of illness, pregnancy or unemployment, the loan could not be changed so that the social systems could enter. That's why it was hard. At the time I entered the department, nothing had been done about the 2000 problem. It got first priority. Now it's good to be able to announce that we have found a solution. From 1 July 1999, there will be opportunities to enter fixed rates and a fixed rate that can be combined with the social systems. It's a lot of work that needs to be done by the Loan Box, and together with the 2000 problem, it's a tough race. There are barely 300 added to almost 700,000 customers – that is not an ordinary bank. But the conclusion is happy. We can both take care of the social systems and get a fixed interest rate from 1 July 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e507	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I would like to remind the Council of State that he has been in the Council of State for nearly a year and a half, so he should have had time to work on the matter. I would like to stress that there is still a need for rapid clarification. On behalf of the customers in the Loan Fund, I regret that it has taken so long, and it seems immediately quite long until 1 July 1999. The Councils of State have also earlier, including. a. According to the Evening Post and also here today, tried that Stortinget had not analysed well enough whether the Loan Fund was prepared for this. However, it is the task of the Council of State to follow the decision of the Grand Duchy, and if the Council of State has considered that the current system of market-driven interest rates and fixed rates cannot be implemented, the Council of State should at least in the past outline an alternative to the problem, instead of postponing it and putting the burden on young people in the start-up phase.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e516	As I said, there was no analysis of the impending government of the capacity of the Lånekassa to implement such a scheme. It was also not seen in relation to the social systems. When it comes to those who came in this disaster, I am sorry for just as much as the representative, Mr. Konglevoll, and it is very clear that this is my responsibility today. But once we had come to the department, we went into the matter and analyzed it and informed the Storting in the revised national budget that this was a very complex problem, and that we did not have the capacity to handle it before 1 January 2000. The size had no comment on it. It was accepted by the Storting in that treatment, and we therefore had no reason to believe that the Storting was so impatient when they had received that information. In retrospect, we, both the Government and I as the Council of State, and I'll trust the Storting too, can see that we got a dramatic development for the interest rates, which have updated this for both parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e524	Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e527	It is not the Storting that is impatient in this matter, but hundreds of thousands of people who are hit by a sharp increase in their student loan rate because the Minister of Education has not got the fixed rate that Stortinget so late as in December found it necessary to tell the Council of State that he had to get in place. In the daily newspaper of 7 January 1999, the head of expedition Petter Skarheim of the Ministry of Church, Education and Research says that that scheme is unlikely to be in place until the end of this year. The reason why this is a data problem is that the practical data systems cannot be put in place. Then my question to the Council of State: Can't the Council of State and the Treasury give people who have a student loan the opportunity to sign a contract that you want a fixed rate, so that that contract can be put in place? Then you'd better sort out all the practical, possible afterpayment, etc., afterwards. It cannot be the customers of the Loan Fund and those who now have to pay high interest rates, who will be affected by the fact that the Loan Fund cannot be settled in their computer system.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e536	The representative might and I agree that it is tragic for those who have received the increased interest rate. There is further reason to remind you that there are almost 700,000 customers who should add less than 300 bets. The representative Geske is quite right when he asks for a contract, but this will be processed on data. Should you add less than 300, in addition to the usual things that they have, treat this piece, the setup for everything else to do would collapse. Data needs to be done. It is quite right that my chief of expedition Skarheim said the representative of Gishe referred, at that time. We've been able to supply it, so it'll be in place from August 1st. So there's a job done from both the Loan Box and the Department to do it before, but it's a huge operation to get it done. I have respect for the work that Lånekassa has done in this matter, and I am sorry for the situation in which the customers have come up with.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e545	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e548	I have a question to the Council of State Løwer, and it's about the uncertainty in the labour market. There were many, including the Workers' Party, who warned of the developments we are now seeing. We hear daily about bankruptcies, lay-offs, redundancies and restrictions in business. Among other things, this is now happening in the construction sector in a large way. Yesterday we could read in the Evening Post that employment in the shipbuilding and offshore industries can be severely affected as early as the first six months of this year. It is feared that 7 000 out of a total of 21000 jobs disappear. What is the Government's strategy for meeting this development?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e555	The Prime Minister answered a lot of this question last Wednesday, but I have nothing against repeating that the Government has now started working on the overall estimate in relation to the revised national budget. When we presented the 1999 budget, we made a basic estimate for development in 1999, but have always referred to the uncertainty that lies in the forecasts of the various agencies — both in terms of the size and timing of any increase in unemployment. What we see now, as the representative Brustad says, is that there are signs of things that will happen. In the context of the drafting of the revised national budget, as the Prime Minister said in his reply last Wednesday, the Government has a readiness to put in place new state buildings and to look at the yard support once more to see whether this – if otherwise the financial assumptions suggest that we can get rid of the economy – can help to avoid unemployment or to get employment measures started.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e564	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am glad that the Government has begun to think and hopefully also started to do something about this matter. The thing is that every day now there are more unemployed. I still think it was very unwise by the Government, with the support of the Right Party and the Advance Party, to halve the number of labour market measures from last year to this year. My question is really: does the government intend to do something before the revised national budget, when we now see that unemployment actually increases as much in some parts of the country as it does, and how many more have to become unemployed before the government takes action and not just talks about a follow-up to developments?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e571	Now we haven't got any figures for 1999, but the signals that are given are going to go towards increasing unemployment. That's what the Prime Minister said last Wednesday. The government, as I mentioned, has begun to look at the measures that can help prevent this. The main thing is to prevent unemployment from occurring, and we have done so through the budget we have submitted. Now we will probably see an increase in figures for January 1999 based on different factors, without necessarily having to be cyclical changes in the labour market. One of the factors that will be new in January is the technical conversion of the statistics in the Directorate of Labour, which relates to the relationship between the unemployed and the partially employed. To date, those statistics have not been fully comprehensive and accurate in relation to the actual situation of some unemployed or partially employed persons. It'll increase numbers as well as season changes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e578	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e583	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Carl I. Hagen to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Finance. However, the question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 2, from the representative Carl I. Hagen to the Prime Minister, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Prime Minister has left. Question 3, from the representative Dag Danielsen to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment, who will direct him. At the request of the Minister for the Environment, this question is moved and answered in front of question 34, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 10, from the representative Jan Simonsen to the Minister of Justice, has been withdrawn. Questions 13 and 15 from the representatives of Ane Sofie Tmärås and Ågot Valle respectively to the Minister of Justice are postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State has a disease incident. Questions 12 and 14 from the representatives Jan Johnsen and Bendiks H. Arnesen, respectively, of the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of the Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister of Justice, who has a history of disease. Question 11, from the representative Jan Simonsen to the Minister for Justice, will be answered by the Minister for Transport who directs him. At the request of the Minister for Transport, this question is moved and raised as the first question. Questions 18, 19 and 20, from the representatives of Anne Helen Rui, Dag Danielsen and Steinar Bastesen respectively to the Minister for Transport, are moved and answered in response to question 11, at the request of the Minister for Transport. Question 27, from the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Social Affairs, who has been removed. Question 28, from the representative Einar Olav Skogholt to the Minister for Social Affairs, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e632	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time. Question 3 will be answered in advance of question 34. Before we move on to question 4, the President, who has already adopted, will address questions 11, 18, 19 and 20.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e642	This question, from the representative Jan Simonsen to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Transport who is directing the person.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e645	I have asked the Minister of Justice the following questions that I have understood will be answered by the Minister of Transport: ‘IFALPA has for a long time been focussing on the increasing problem of passengers affected by alcohol and/or drugs that are of concern to others on board and in some cases pose a threat to flight safety. [[International Federation of Airline Pilots Association]] Will the Council of State propose proposals to reduce the problem, for example through new and stricter criminal responses, and will the Council of State address this issue internationally in order to have a common regulatory framework?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e654	I am aware that there is an increasing problem both nationally and internationally that passengers are acting climacticly on board aircraft as a result of alcohol abuse, etc. Air carriers n.e.c. look at various measures to prevent events of that nature. The question of action against this group of passengers, referred to as ‘unruly passages’, has already been addressed in international forums, such as: in the Aeronautical Organisations ICAO, the International Civil Aviation Organization, and the ECAC, the European Civil Aviation Conference, and Norway participate in these forums. At the Norwegian initiative, ECAC will hold a seminar on this subject in March this year. The Ministry is now reviewing parts of the Aviation Act and will consider proposing sanctions against passengers acting in such a way that their behaviour poses an obvious safety risk, which could endanger ships, crew and passengers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e665	Norsk Flyerförbund has, understandably, been very concerned with this issue for a long time, as this problem has increased by up to 400 pst. in individual air carriers since 1995. An air traffic law bill has been called for to allow access to the prosecution of such passengers, in line with the legislation that has been introduced, for example: in the United Kingdom and the United States. It is positive that the Minister of Transport will consider this matter in the context of the revision of the Aviation Act. I just want to hope that it happens quickly, and that it doesn't take one, two or three years before this comes to a political decision. In that case, I hope that the matter can be resolved in isolation, and that something can be done before that. I am also pleased that the Norwegian authorities have initiated an international seminar on this issue. I would also like to ask that there be a basis for criminal prosecution, which will be comprehensive and satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e674	I am not a professional either on the bus or anything else here, but as a layman and as a state councillor and responsible I would like to say that passengers who act as the representative asks, actually commit some kind of mutiny. But in today's situation, criminal-law reactions, i.e. reactions leading to prison or fines, can only go against crew members. What is then relevant is to consider whether the criminal provisions should be amended in order to include passengers who have a manifest safety risk, and the representative can expect me to follow this matter with great pressure. I am – as one would say in trundish – not encouraged by the kind of behaviour, and I believe that with the strict requirements we in Norway set for aviation safety, there is every reason to set good examples of this field. I can also make sure that it will be taken up with full pressure in all international contexts. The representative and I share the same opinion on the need for law and order in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e681	Let's move on to the 18th, 19th and 20th questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e687	«The Minister of Transport is aware that the new route offer to the NSB on Vestfoldbanen will mean longer daily travel time for commuters because the direct trains that go from Tønsberg to Oslo will be gone. He has always talked so beautifully about public transport, but this can force many commuters back into the car again, or to move to Oslo. Is it possible for the Council of State to reverse the new and poorer offer made by the NSB to commuters in Westfold?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e694	NSB BA increased the train offer on several routes from 10 January this year. The initiative relates in particular to the trains in the eastern part of the country. For example, the intercity route Skien – Lillehammer gets an increase of 16 pst. the number of trains to be operated on the route. The offer is strengthened both by increasing frequency and by increasing the possibility for train travellers to travel directly to and from Oslo and possibly further to the main aerodrome without switching trains. On the Vestfold track, the change in route means that fixed hours are introduced over the operating day, with the exception of entering Oslo in the morning. In addition, there will be an hourly rate of Sandefjord – Oslo – Sandefjord and an average travel time reduced by 3 – 4 minutes. More than half of the take-offs on the Westfold Railway are passed to and from Oslo Airport and further to Lillehammer. The changes in the use of the train equipment have been made to ensure that the best trains can be offered to as many customers as possible. ICE departures in today's form have been removed to accommodate multiple departures with improved travel time and a similar stop pattern. As a result, some train passengers who have previously been able to use these trains will have a longer journey time on the route. However, the four departures are replaced by trains which provide more seats for commuters from Tønsberg in the morning noise, approx. 200, and from Oslo this afternoon's noise, approx. Six hundred. In addition, from 10 January, almost all trains use 1 hour and 30 minutes on the Tønsberg – Oslo route, towards earlier about 1 hour and 40 minutes. Here it should also be added that the train stop at Spoppum and Holmestrand allows passengers to get flights from here with shorter travel time to and from Oslo than before. In total, most travelers on the Vestfold track will have shorter travel time, and this also applies to the majority of commuters. From the overall picture, it is difficult to agree that the change of route represents a lower offer for commuters in Westfold.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e705	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I must say that I do not fully agree with the Council of State. It is true that trains are going more often, and it is true that all trains are going a little faster, but the commuters who commute from South-Westfold and Grenland get a lot longer travel time, and so they run every day and every day. Some of them get 1 hour longer travel time than they've had before, and have had for many years. Then I have to say, doesn't the Council of State see that it means a poorer quality of life, and that it also means less time with the family? Time with the family is something that this government has just said is very important. Isn't it important for commuters to get a better life rather than a worse one?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e712	In my main response, I rejected a deterioration for commuters in general. I said it had been an improvement, but I can say that for some groups of commuters and on some flights the situation could have been better. I see that clearly, and I am aware that in relation to some departures in the morning and in the afternoon it is a frustration. In general, in the system with which the representative is probably familiar, government councils do not conduct and instruct NSB BA about the route pattern. But I assume that NSB BA always listens to customers and consumers with a view to making it the best possible, and I know that at the moment when Rome’s sports open – and that will happen rather than what we feared before Christmas – there will be a general opportunity to increase the offer of trains on the Vestfold course as well. I assume that in such a context, the NSB BA looks at some of them – let's say – the appeal points that have been raised by some groups of commuters on some departures, and which I guess is the basis of the representative's question to me.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e719	The Council of State was concerned with the level of detail and the intervention of the Council of State. In the NRK Vestfold on 22 December 1998, it was said by one of those involved in information from the NSB that it did not help to address such a question in the questionnaire, because the Council of State would not do anything, because it could not. It almost sounds like this on the state councils as well. I think it's bad that you can't do anything as a state council, and I doubt if that's what he can do, or if it's about the will to do anything in that context. I must at least say that a slight change would be to get a little more stop on Lysaker. There are a lot of people working there who are from Sandefjord, who now make car teams because there is no stop on Lysaker as it should be. That's what I think the Council of State could do before the Rome Gate opens.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e727	First in general to the management of state companies. I am amazed that some representatives in this room behave as if it were five to ten years ago, when state councils gave detailed instructions at stations and some stops. That's not what the management system is, and it should be well known in Stortinget. But it's not that a state council can't influence, of course not. State councils can influence by holding up a mirror in front of NSB BA on consumer concerns and quality of services, and I do. In this context, I repeat: I assume that the company takes the customer's complaint case seriously, but in my general answer I had to reject a – let's say – black paint of the situation in general, because that is not correct. I hear what was said, and I assume that NSB BA systematically listens to its customers, to its users, because they should be satisfied with the services. That's what has to be the goal of a transport company, because that's why the customers it's for, it's not for itself, to say it that way. When I say that the most important possibility to do something lies in the opening of Rome's sport, it's because it allows for an increased frequency on all trains in the East, especially intercity and local trains.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e735	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘According to information provided by the City of Hellerud [[referring to figures obtained from NSB Gardermobanen AS]] Can the Council of State explain the real costs of congestion in the East?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e744	For the treatment of St.prp. No 39 for 1997-98 granted 750 million. kr in loans to the NSB Gardermobanen AS to cover the costs associated with the gasketing of the Romeport. Following the decision of the NSB BA Group Board on 10 June 1998 to continue the close-up work, a programme was drawn up in the summer of 1998 for the continuation of the congestion of the East Mark tunnel. The NSB Gardermobanen AS estimated the cost of completing this programme at 550 million. kr. On this basis, the Stortinget granted a further 550 million in 1999 in connection with the treatment of the State budget. kr in loans to the company. The tunnel congestion measures, including the administration and VAT share of NSB Gardermobanen AS, are budgeted at 870 million. kr. In addition, the sealing measures have resulted in additional costs for the installation contracts because they have been shifted in time. In addition, expenditure on the monitoring of eastern land and the repair of damage to dwellings and other claims is budgeted. These budgeted costs amount to 430 million. kr. Thus, the NSB Gardermobanen AS has a budget for the extraordinary costs incurred as a result of the leakage problems of DKK 1.3 billion. I must add that these questions were addressed and addressed in connection with questions from the Committee to the Ministry of Transport relating to St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 8 for 1999. In the near future and as soon as practicable, I will return to the Stortinget with information in an appropriate form and at an appropriate time about the different aspects of what is now the situation, both in terms of the sport of Rome, the Gardermoban and the urban areas concerned and the Eastern countries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e755	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm not going to be the one who necessarily claims that mathematics itself is simple, but I'm of the opinion that it gets even harder when you treat political numbers. What I think was interesting in the Council's answer was that he, among other things, included damage to dwellings. I thank you for the answer, because I have got what I was looking for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e762	It is good and good that the representative and I agree that it is always important to get things out. I just want to clarify again that on questions from the Committee to the Ministry of Transport, we explained numbers earlier. But I have recorded that in the public debate in Oslo there have been different views on this, and to make sure that the Stortinget is up-to-date 100 pst. So I come back with a wide and detailed information in an appropriate form as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e772	I have a question for the Minister for Transport: ‘In the hectic season, the fishing fleet operating winter fishing on the outside of Lofoten has serious problems getting on mobile phones. The GSM system is only close to the country, and the NMT 450 system, which is the most widely available, is not sufficiently developed. At the same time, the maritime VHF system is fully exploited with waiting time over Bodø radio. Can the Council of State promise measures with the development of additional capacity on the NMT 450 system to ensure that the conditions for fishermen are satisfied?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e781	Telenor reports that NMT 450 on the outside of Lofoten has been extended to some large base stations to provide maximum range. The network is permanently extended to what is considered appropriate in terms of coverage and capacity. In addition, additional NMT 450 stations are set up to significantly increase capacity in front of each season of loot fishing. However, there may be problems to achieve satisfactory radio conditions at any time throughout the coverage area when operating at strong and less powerful stations. It may be difficult to calculate the time of objectivity. Last year, this was earlier than expected, and Telenor came a little late to get the additional NMT 450 stations in operation. This year, Telenor has therefore put in place early-outtime measures so that they do not repeat themselves. In addition, Telenor reports that technical changes have been made to the GSM network between Stamsund and Bodø in 1998 in order to obtain GSM coverage along the fast route. Furthermore, Telenor considers that there is sufficient capacity in the maritime VHF network over Bodø radio. Traffic prices at VHF were also sharply reduced in 1998. I hope this will give fishermen satisfactory conditions for the use of mobile phones during this year's loot fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e792	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was interesting to hear that there is a development going on to improve conditions. It has been a rest for a long time, and you have been standing close to me for hours and waiting to get on the phone. There's one thing I want to do right away. It goes on TV coverage in the same area. It's probably a small question, but it's practically not TV coverage for the fishing fleet on the outside of the Lofoten and as far north as to the Vesterålen. That's terrible stuff. If it could also have been taken up in the same sling and Telenor could have done something about it, it would have been interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e799	The President assumes that the supplementary question falls outside the scope of the main question. But if the Council of State Dørum wants to answer, he has access to contact now!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e802	Thank you for that! It is good that the representative and I agree that efforts are now being made to cover the situation during the loot fishing. With regard to the TV coverage, I should just acknowledge to the representative that I have heard the question and will take it with me. I perceive that as being addressed to me, and he will receive answers in an appropriate form. I'm unfortunately not able to give it here. I don't have this kind of detailed insight.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e811	So we go back to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e817	I have the following questions for the Minister of Culture: ‘NRK2 is funded by TV licence equal to NRK1. In the Nordic states, it's only 12 pst. by TV viewers who receive NRK2 if they do not have satellites or are connected to cable networks, which means an additional cost to see a licensed channel. What can the Council of State do to improve the viewing conditions of NRK2 in the Nordic state, where 88 pst. by the television audience not getting in the channel?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e826	The real coverage of NRK2 in the Nordic region is approx. 55 pst, and not 12, as the representative Bastisen points out in the question. I also remind you that the expansion of NRK2 has taken place in accordance with Stortinget's assumption that NRK2 is primarily to be a satellite channel and with a certain additional coverage from ground transmitters. When Stortingen dealt with the matter, it was assumed that the full development of the ground transmitters was not sound for economic and frequency reasons. In addition, a full expansion of ground transmitters would far on the road make it impossible to develop a digital transmission network. The size provided a coverage of close to 80 pst. by viewers on a national basis. About 80 pst. Today, the population has the potential to consume NRK2. This is therefore in line with the Storting assumptions. However, in accordance with normal practice, I have asked the NRK to explain what plans the NRK has for the further development of NRK 2 ground transmitters, and specifically in relation to the situation in the Nordic countries. The NRK states that it is not appropriate to establish several analogue ground transmitters for the NRK2. There's two reasons for this. Firstly, the transmission network for NRK1 consists of a total of 2670 transmitters. It would be unreasonable to extend an equivalent ground network for the transmission of NRK2. The second is that if the Storting decided to expand a network for digital television broadcasts, the expansion of analogue NRK2 transmitters would only fill a need for a few years to come. In the case of digital communication via the ground, the whole country will be able to accept the NRK2. The NRK will give priority to areas with poor NRK2 coverage if such a network is built for digital television broadcasts. If full analogue coverage is now developed, it will capture the necessary dissemination capacity for such digital communication. According to the NRK, however, the number of people who can accept the channel is growing. This is related to the expansion of cable television networks and the availability of satellite receivers. According to the last numbers, 21 have pst. by households in Northern Ireland satellite receivers and 20 pst. cable connection. Through the ground-tightness is approx. 15 pst. the tyre. Information on any double coverage is not available. I therefore find that the coverage of the NRK2 is in accordance with the Stortingen assumption. A further expansion of the analogue transmission network will be unfairly expensive. At the same time, such further development would create problems in relation to the possibilities of expanding a digital television broadcasting network. I intend to present a big message on the development of digital television during the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e842	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I found somewhat contradictory. She initially said 55 pst. by the viewers have coverage, but at the end of her post she said that approx. 15 pst. has ground station coverage. Then I must at least say that at the end of her article she is more in line with what I said, that approx. 12 pst. has coverage. What's right? I guess that's the last number that's right. Then we can agree to meet halfway, that a place between 12 and 15 pst. has coverage. It's with respect to not reporting satisfactorily. She should also put forward a proposal to reduce our licence to those who do not receive TV coverage from a channel already funded by the licence.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e847	I would like to say to the representative Bastesen on the question of coverage, that it is in my estimate of approx. 55 pst. or 56 pst. If I add this, it's in that 21 pst. households have satellite receiver, 20 pst. has a cable connection and the coverage through the ground net is approx. 15 pst. That's why it's not right when the Bastisen claims in his question that for the NRK2, there is in the Nordic region 88 pst. by non-channel viewers. So that's not right, because the other ones are approx. 55-56 pst. also gets the channel, as I mentioned. When it comes to the issue of broadcasting fees, there is a question I have answered repeatedly. It is such that the licence fee is linked to the television set and not to how many channels you get. I understand that the question is raised, but we have to hold on to the fact that the Storting's assumption was that 80 pst. should be covered by NRK2, and this must be seen in the context of the development of digital TV.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e854	I'm reasonably good in percentage terms, in line with the Minister of Culture. My question is that those with satellites and cable coverage get better coverage than those with terrestrial coverage. We can agree to meet halfway in terms of the 12 and 15 percent, so we get 13.5 pst. So I guess we should agree. But the question of being able to defend that you have satisfactory coverage with 13.5 pst. coverage and that it complies with the decision of the Storting remains. It's okay that the license is paid for the TV set, but the license money is going to finance a channel that we can't see. Then it must be time to shut down that channel when we don't get any use of it. Stop using my license money to finance a channel that I can't see!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e861	I think the number debate between Bastisen and me makes little sense. If you study the answer, that's enough coverage for it. However, what I see as an important matter for Bastisen and myself is, of course, that the NRK2 does not reach far enough, but I would like to make it clear that this is in line with the Storting's assumption of approx. 80 pst. on a national basis. The reason why we do not choose to extend backlogs to NRK2 is because the cost of it becomes unreasonable compared to what we cover up, as well as the fact that we expect to provide a communication on digital television in the spring session. In this context, the NRK has said that it wants to start where the coverage is the worst in the case of a large-scale connection to a proposal, a possible proposal I would say, to expand digital TV via groundcasting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e868	And then we're done with percentages, and we're going to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e874	‘In the light of the long waiting period for support for cultural buildings and the high need for preventive youth action, will the Council consider increasing support for the construction of cultural buildings?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e879	Cultural buildings are the venues for the dissemination of art and culture and as a framework for active cultural life in the community. Youth is one of the most important users of the houses. Culture houses contribute to the strengthening of social and cultural networks, local identity and belonging. In 1998, it was allocated a total of 35 million. SEK to local and regional cultural houses, distributed by 11 million. SEK for regional construction and 24 million. kr for local cultural buildings. A total of 154 million existed in 1998. kr in applications which could not be accepted. This is a little less than the year before. In recent years, the waiting time for approval of the first instalment has usually ranged from two to four years for local cultural buildings, but some applications have been waiting for more than four years. For regional cultural buildings, the waiting time is usually three years before the first allocation. The government sees it as a goal to reduce the waiting time, and therefore increased the allocation by 10 million. NOK 35 million. 1998 in Government St. Prp. No 1 Appendix No 3, which was promoted in the autumn of 1997. In 1999, 36.3 million were allocated. kr. The aim of the increase was to ensure that several cultural projects could be carried out in the municipalities. The State grants trigger much larger local grants. In addition, amendments to the social security scheme have been adopted with the aim of achieving a better balance between the amount of the application and the amount granted. The operation of the houses is a local responsibility. The government's approach for 1999, with clear constraints on the budget's expenditure side, known to the representative, also had implications for the cultural budget. In order to maintain and in some cases strengthen the operational basis of the cultural institutions, the Government chose to retain part of the investment expenditure. However, the government chose to cover grants to local and regional cultural buildings, so that the real value of this allocation was fully maintained compared to 1998. The question of further increases in the allocation of local and regional cultural houses needs to be considered in conjunction with the overall treatment of the state budget in the years to come, and it is therefore not possible for me to give any signals now about future appropriations for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e894	I thank the Minister of Culture for the answer, which was absolutely positive in its basic tone. I also hope that it will produce results in terms of the size of the permits, for the Council of State and I share the view that investment in these cultural institutions has a significant preventive effect. We know that many cultural measures are driven by so-called fire-soulers, people who see the great impact of having such buildings built, and that it is preventive and works as a guide, not least for children and young people. I would like to stress that the best permissions given through the public can be used for such purposes. Since it triggers so much self-esteem and local mobilisation, I would like to ask the Minister of Culture if she would like to assess an increase in the amount of time that comes, among other things. by tipping agents.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e901	I fully share the representative's emphasis on the importance of local cultural buildings. That's also why we in Appendix No. 3 to the 1998 budget increased from 25 million. NOK 35 million. kr. But from the point of view of the need, it is also a low amount. The representative interpreted me there that there was a positive basic tone in the answer, and that's that. What we did in Appendix No. 3, was just an expression that we want to cancel this entry. Local meeting places are very important because this has a preventative effect, as the representative points to, and because it also usually triggers considerable local effort. As far as future budgets are concerned, I have no chance of going into this. But I take it that the representative wants it to be invested in this, and that is in line with the priorities that I also base, because I think that local meeting places are very important to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e913	‘A year ago, the Minister of Culture announced that subtitles for deaf and hearing impaired people in the NRK would be improved by a new subtitle method and would be able to choose an interpreter service. How does the Council of State assess the current situation and the prospects for the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e920	Initially, I would like to refer to my answer in the Question Time on 21 January 1998 to questions from the representative Gedrem and my answer on 18 February 1998 to the representative Grethe G. Fossum on subtitling for hearing-impaired people. I also refer to the Ministry's reply of 26 October 1998 to written questions from the representative Jon Olav Alstad on the same subject. I have referred the matter to the NRK. The NRK states that it is in the final phase to produce a prototype of the computer program necessary to convert speech into direct text. The NRK has already contributed 2 million. kr to the project. For the current year, the project has added 2 million. over the disability action plan. In St.meld. No 8 for 1998-99, the Government has assumed that a new text system will be ready by the end of next year. For the project with optional simultaneous sign language interpretation, the NRK informs that sample consignments have been running for several months, with positive reactions from the 16 test groups having outsourced recipients. Some technical adjustments have already been made and a full evaluation will be carried out at the end of March this year. During the probationary period, attempts have been made to interpret different application types, including children’s programmes. The technical solutions to be used to ensure that interpretation signals can be received as much as possible with today's television receivers remain to be determined. I would like to stress that companies with public broadcasting obligations have a special responsibility to provide subtitles for hearing impaired programmes. The aim is that all-outcasters should be able to put the new technology into service as soon as it is available, so that the broadcasts can be organised to the greatest extent possible for deaf and hearing-impaired people. Direct captioning and direct deaf interpretation will be a valuable tool for deaf and deaf people, so that they can be more easily followed in current events.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e933	I thank the Minister of Culture for the answer. The NRK and TV2 are public broadcasters and have an independent platform to be available. The speech recorder mentioned by the Minister, which was due to be completed in the summer of 1998, is now suspended for several years. In Sweden and England, they all have a variety of subtitles for direct programming. Will this subtitles be applied to the 400,000 hearing impairments in Norway, and when? Now 16 decoders are deployed by deaf people in the country to provide interpreting services in a pilot project that expires in March 1999. What's going on? Does the Minister for Culture want the project to be extended so that the decoders will be a technical tool for the 4,000 deaf?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e940	I have answered questions relating to the offer of hearing impaired people and deaf people several times. I believe that the answer I gave today gives positive signals in the sense that both the NRK and the Disability Action Plan are being used here to advance the work. I cannot answer specifically the detailed questions that the representative Gedrem now asked, but I promise to follow up on this to the best of my ability, so that the offer of the 400,000 hearing impaired and deaf can be improved in line with our common objective.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e947	I thank you for the good answer with the promise to follow this closely up, and there is no reason to believe that it will not be done by the Minister of Culture. I have an additional question: does the Minister of Culture want the NRK and TV2 to be required in their concession terms to both simultaneous interpretation and subtitling of direct programmes as they are public broadcasters, so that they can also reach half a million of the Nordics who are dependent on such an offer? I would also like to underline that this type of velotype, which uses a stenographic way of texting, has been used in Sweden with great intensity. One has also seen in other countries a greater willingness to bet on children’s programmes that are designed for deaf children, thereby giving them the incentive they need to achieve as much growth as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e956	I want to tell the representative Gedrem that I will follow up on this also in relation to TV2 and NRK. The public broadcasters have a special responsibility. It is natural that it is also included in the concession treatment, and the NRK has – as I pointed out – followed this up by spending a lot of money on it. I would also like to refer to the answer I wrote to questions from the representative Alstad of 26 October 1998, where I also open up other solutions. If it turns out that the project for direct texting cannot be realised by the year 2000 or that it will be significantly delayed, I have also suggested here that subtitles can be considered as a statutory task for Norwegian public broadcasters.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e966	I will ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘Lookups in the media show that the volume of work at consumer offices is so high that employees at some offices work free of charge in the evenings to get away from matters. What will the Council of State do to improve this situation so that consumers can continue to have their ‘complaint body’ at a time when, among other things, increased advertising pressure and amended border control rules?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e975	When the representative from Tingelstad refers to "resolution in the media", I have to repeat what this reference is, and that I personally am not aware of it. I am already well informed about the great and important work being done at the local consumer offices. The number of consumer council requests has remained stable at a high level in the last few years. In total, it comes in approx. 140 000 requests – both written and oral – in the year of the total of 19 offices in the state. The number of offices varies from state to state, and so the workload is also somewhat different in the various offices. As far as I know, the Consumer Council is currently providing consumers with a very good supply, and most of those who turn to the Consumer Council for help are actually receiving help. The number of requests indicates that consumers have great confidence in the Consumer Council. The Consumer Council today has a financial framework that means that it can do a reasonable job. It is an overarching goal to facilitate the use of overtime to resolve tasks, and within the limits given, it is up to the Consumer Council itself to evaluate the use of overtime. The Consumer Council has taken action to simplify and streamline the handling of cases, including: through the introduction of information and communication technologies and the creation of an electronic complaint database. I think that the state-owned consumer offices will also exist in the future. And of course, I want to reserve the right to assess whether there are tasks related to the complaint handling and pre-purchase manual that can be resolved in other ways and perhaps even more effective ways than today, based on the aim of providing consumers with the best possible help for self-help. These and a number of other questions relate to the Consumer Council, I will come back to the big news about consumer policies that are being put up for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e990	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am particularly pleased that she said so clearly that she wants it to be a consumer office in each state in the future. There has also been some uncertainty about this. I fully agree that a very good job is being done. I myself have looked at the statistics on various tasks carried out by consumer offices, and it turns out recently that there is an overwhelming increase in service provision, advice in services. It is also part of the Strategic Plan of the Consumer Council. So, back to the fact that the Council of State was not familiar with the headlines in the media. It was NRK Uppland who reported that employees are working for free to help the audience in our county. When I called them and contacted them about this, they were very sorry that this had been turned up as a kind of sewing. I didn't mean to. But the reality is that there is so much going on at this office that they can't get away with things. Then I said that we need to look into whether a number of posts can be allocated, etc. The question is whether the Council of State will go into the matter and look at exactly that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e999	Yes, it is a good idea to go in and look at the problem that the representative Tingelstad is raising about the distribution of resources between or between the offices. But what's important to point out in this way is that if you're going to have competence in a wide field, where you get questions about a lot of things, it's also important that you have so many options that you can cover all the skills you need. What might be interesting to discuss is on the one hand, if you want to keep up with the offices you have, and on the other hand, if all the offices have the same broad field of competence, and in that way, look at the resources allocated to each office. Otherwise, I must honestly admit that I found it positive that someone is doing an extra effort in a shortened period to remedy the situation and to meet those who come with questions. It shows that those who work in these offices want to do a good job for the consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1006	First, I would like to say that I consider myself to be an up-to-date person, and I actually had to use the Consumer Council this summer because of aggressive telephone sales. And I want to say that it's not just easy to be the little man and woman in today's tough market competition, to say it like this. I listened with interest to the Council of State now responded in the second round, but I would point out that if there is such a sustained work pressure, we may have problems recruiting capable people. The main issue with the head of the Consumer Office was that you might be able to pay a little too much overtime. They do not have the opportunity to pay overtime, they have to provide accommodation, and if it is constantly being spared, you will bite yourself in the tail by getting a given less service, and it will accumulate again. Otherwise, I just have to greet the Council of State and say that it turned out that this was a uniquely fine environment when I examined this matter. So I can at least stress that there is a very good service spirit at that office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1015	I agree in the representative's description of myself as an individual, but I would like to stress that there must be no defeat for the individual to contact the consumer office if they need it. It is an office and a service function that should be used by everyone, and there are many things that are difficult in this field as well. So I thought it was great that Tingelstad could also benefit from it, and she probably got the help she was after. And then I want to underline what I said in my first answer, that when it concerns their total resources, they have done a distribution themselves. When they have said that overtime must be taken into account, it is their way of allocating the total resources. Then, in the budgetary process, the amount of resources available to the Consumers' Office may return. I understand that, on the same lines as many others, they seem to have too little resources to go with, but there is another debate that we might be able to engage in in the budgetary process.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1025	The Government has an agreement with the Advance Party and the Right, also called the cash support agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1030	The President will ask the representative to speak up before any debate takes place. That's the question that's the starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1033	That agreement requires the Government to take initiatives to introduce the social security model into up to three municipalities. My question to the Minister for Family Affairs is: Is such an initiative taken? And possibly, what municipalities are they targeted at?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1038	The President will point out that a question should be referred correctly as set out in the file distributed on his/her desk. The question submitted by the representative Per Sandberg was worded as follows: ‘Introducing the cash support, the Progress Party and the Right entered into an agreement with the Government Parties. In this agreement, the Government was asked to initiate experiments with the social security model in up to three positive municipalities to use this model. Has the Government found these three municipalities so that the experiment can be started?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1047	The representative, Sandberg, calls for follow-up to the proposal to try out the so-called social security model for managing cash support. As you know, the social security model implies that all families with children of one and two years will receive a cash support. In order to achieve this, a state-aided incentive for the operation of kindergartens for these age groups must be discontinued, and parents who want kindergartens for their children must use the cash support to pay for the nursery. The concern of the private kindergartens was an important reason why one wished for a different management of the cash support from the representatives Sandberg and the Progress Party. The main sources of income for private kindergartens are the state grant and the parental payment. The social security model would result in a large proportion of the private kindergartens getting all their income through the parental payment. It was the government's opinion that this would make the operating situation for the private kindergartens much more insecure than it already is today. In St. prp. No 1 for 1998-99, the Ministry has notified the Stortingen of the cash support and attempted the social security model: ‘Once the management of the cash support has entered into established forms and greater equivalence has been achieved in framework conditions for private and municipal kindergartens, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs will consider carrying out experiments on the social security model in some municipalities.’ This is entirely in line with the agreement concluded between the Government Party and the Right and the Progress Party in May last year on the cash support reform. The Government shall, in line with the budgetary agreement concluded with the Right and the Progress Party last autumn, promote a major communication on future framework conditions for the kindergarten sector. The budget agreement included: established that the kindergarten message should present proposals to ensure a greater degree of economic equality between municipal and private kindergartens. It is my position that we need to sort out the operating situation and the future framework conditions for the kindergarten sector, and for the private kindergartens specifically, before we can try out the social security model for managing cash support. It is difficult to say safely today when such attempts can be started.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1065	Here the family minister takes up a lot of arguments that were also used during the negotiations on the cash support, and that is well known. I understand the Council of State so that all these arguments are now to be used in order not to comply with the terms of paragraph 1(j) of the Agreement, and that the Government has no thoughts and ideas to initiate the introduction of the social security model. It is clear that we should await the situation of the cash support, so we get the evaluation of it. But there is no argument for not already preparing any sample models in three municipalities. I would also be allowed to say that there are already municipalities that have equal conditions for private and public kindergartens, and that is exactly where I am asking for an answer from the Council of State, if it is not possible to look at those municipalities that already have equal terms.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1072	In my answer, Sandberg's representative got some of the same arguments that he's heard before, and that have been our main arguments against the social security model. But as Sandberg is sure to be aware, there is a part of this agreement that these two parties together with the government party entered into in connection with the introduction of cash support. It says so.\t\t You can change the settings of the ‘The tests shall be carried out where there is a higher degree of equivalence of the framework conditions for private and municipal kindergartens, in line with the conditions under point (c).’» It is quite important for me to stress that there is no greater equivalency when it comes to framework conditions today. And when these attempts are to be carried out, we come to the fore – of course – to investigate and figure out which municipalities we are going to try out. I can therefore reassure the representative that once we have got these framework conditions on the same line, we will also have clear municipalities where we can start trying.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1082	I can't say that I'm being reassured by the argument that the Council of State is now using. Paragraph 1(j) of the Agreement provides, in fact, that it is to be taken: «Initiation for tests on the social security model in up to three positive municipalities to use this model». Furthermore, as the Council of State correctly states, it says that this should be done ‘when greater equivalence has been achieved’. But there are municipalities that have equal conditions for private and public kindergartens, which have a positive view of the social security model, and want to be test municipalities. Will the Council of State visit these municipalities and, where appropriate, prepare them to be test municipalities once the nursery notification has been processed?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1094	It's a shame the representative wasn't pleased with my answer – I can live with it. But for me, it's very important to see this in a larger context, and I think it's important that we get this review with all the municipalities in relation to private kindergartens, before we pick out test municipalities that are going to implement a social security scheme. It is also at the bottom of the agreement that was concluded between the two parties and the government parties. I feel that at the pace we have planned to implement the scheme according to the social security model, we are well within and on a safe basis in relation to the agreement as well. The representative Sandberg has signed his party leader.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1103	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘In a letter of 11 January 1999 to the Ministry of the Environment, the Directorate for Nature Management proposes that municipalities in Hedmark east of Glomma should reduce their size of sheep farming or change their mode of operation in order to create a core area for the wolf. Will the Council of State support any depopulation of the sheep population in this area in order for the wolf, youw, bear and gaupe to take over the land areas from the farmers?»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1112	Roofing game message, St.meld. No 35 for 1996-97, and its treatment by the Grand Duchy at Innst. S. No 301 for 1996-97, drawing up a double objective on viable populations of wild game and active agriculture exploiting grazing resources in sheep and reindeer pastures. The population joined the rapture, adding to a population target of at least eight to ten family groups of wolves in southern Scandinavia, some of them in Norway. The majority also considered that operational conversions for the most vulnerable herds will be necessary within the core areas of bears and yorks in order to reduce the contact areas between predators and buffaloes. In the context of the 1999 budgetary procedure, the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment stated that one did not wish to re-examine the policy on predatory game. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment are now evaluating the impact of predatory game management and preventative measures to date. There is a further record of the wolf population as a basis for management. In this context, the Directorate for the Proposals of Nature Management will be further considered. There has been a general increase in losses due to predatory game also during the 1998 grazing season. The losses for many areas and individual uses are too high in relation to the proper management of livestock. The rapid increase in the number and prevalence of wolves on the Norwegian side shows that the areas in which a wolf wishes to be highly protected need to be identified as quickly as possible. Experience with the Koppang cold in the last summer has shown that grazing in outland areas where there is a solid stock of wolf will require disproportionately high costs for prevention measures. Since grazing in areas where one chooses to provide strict protection for the wolf would be unwarranted by animal welfare and agricultural practice, one in these areas must stimulate the modification of the ovine establishment or conversion to other productions. Until the objective of at least eight-ten family groups is realistic, agriculture must also accept the strict protection of wolves. However, it is not appropriate to provide for a free establishment. However, a fixed establishment must take place in areas with a low potential for damage to the bupe, and withdrawals must be made where there is a broad agreement that it is not acceptable to have wolves because of sheep and domestic practices.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1127	I thank the Minister for the answer. I must be allowed to add that I am deeply disappointed that we have an agricultural minister who does not, to the extent that we do not defend what the report has put forward, namely that in these areas we are going to have active agriculture with opportunities to exploit grazing resources, while at the same time we are going to have a predatory game management that is possible to operate with reindeer and sheep farming. What the Minister of Agriculture says in his answer is that you have to find areas that make us have the opportunity to have wolves right there. This means that we have an agricultural minister who has bought the principles of nature management and who is not fighting for farmers to have the opportunity to do what is written in the barrage message. What will the Minister of Agriculture do to give sheep farmers the opportunity to use pasture land?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1134	I am somewhat surprised at the supplementary question and the comment. A government responsible for following up the decision of the Storting, including in the case of the report of robbers, must balance both with agriculture and with the objectives of establishing a certain number of wolves in Norway. The Minister of Agriculture follows – just to make it quite clear – the principles and also those set out in the report on predatory behaviour in relation to agriculture. But one should be aware that here Stortinget has used the expression both – and, and the experience so far shows that this is a very difficult area for it. The experience so far also means that in the evaluation we now have in the departments, and of course also in relation to the Government, we need to look at how this succeeds in relation to the administration provided by the Stortinget through its decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1139	I think the Council of State is now trying to get away from the new thing in the game management. What the Storting has decided is that the wolf must have a certain protection throughout the country. What is new in the letter from the Directorate for Nature Management is that now the wolf must have one area of special protection, and outside that area it must no longer be protected. The Minister of Agriculture will now pick out the area where there is the least damage, and it will be a great task for the Minister of Agriculture. The only area I can see in that direction is Nordmarka – but then there are other problems in the picture, so my question to the Minister for Agriculture is: Where do sheep farmers have a champion for their rights to grazing areas when they do not have it in the Minister for Agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1144	The President has some doubts as to whether ‘luke aside’ is a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1147	One government doesn't work that way that one government council fights another. It pursues a policy in an area as defined by the Stortinget. Then I'd like to show the representative what's in St.meld. No 35 for 1996-97: ‘In the long term, it will be a current and possibly necessary management strategy to create one or more core areas for wolves to differentiate the use of the instrument in terms of both killing and the use of prevention measures against damage. The location of such a nuclear site may only be assessed when a family group has been established on the Norwegian side of the border.’ So this has been accepted by a majority, which I believe the representative belongs to, through the discussion here in Stortinget. We have said this, we will assess, but we will also assess the input that has come from the Directorate of Nature Management. And I would like to have said, on behalf of the industry that I know fairly well, that there is something that that demand, that is predictability also in relation to where these predators are to be found, so that they don't, say, appear all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1171	The question has been withdrawn. Question 11 is already answered.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1179	This question, from Jan Johnsen, will be answered by the Minister of the Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1182	I have asked the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘After a visit to Stavanger’s warehouse in the spring, the Ministry of Justice of the United Kingdom announced that it would be necessary to monitor the security of its courts as soon as possible. What concrete measures will the Ministry take, and at what time will the national courts be safeguarded?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1191	In St. prp. No 1 for 1998-99 for the Ministry of Justice, we have stated that an investigation will be launched in the light of violent and threatening incidents in the courts. This work is well under way. However, the Ministry of Justice has also worked long before on security issues. With regard to physical security measures, the Ministry of all new buildings and reconstruction projects has since 1995 sought the best possible way to ensure a division of zones separating employees from the public and the parties. Expeditions shall be placed with an overview of the entry lot and the despatch counters shall be constructed with a glass wall and a hatch and shall have a right of retreat for dispatch personnel. In most of these construction projects, an attack alarm has been installed in the courts, possibly in the despatches, as well as burglar alarms. It is arranged for the possible installation of metal detectors in the entrance batches. Doors and windows shall be burglary-proof and some structures shall have external and internal camera surveillance. All new buildings have their own staff entrances. In addition, all new builds have break-out waiting cells for accused and break-out-proof conference rooms for lawyers and defendants. All new buildings also have separate stairs and lifts for employees. For the protection of documents and records, this shall be done in accordance with the corresponding instructions and regulations. The Courts of Justice shall also ensure transparency and public access. Physical security measures must therefore be weighed against the fact that the courts are a service institution vis-à-vis the plaintiff. In the case of conversion projects, the same measures are implemented as for new buildings as far as is physically possible. About 40 pst. of the country’s housing has carried out major conversions or new buildings since 1994, and these must be considered to have largely implemented the desired safety measures. Work is in progress on monitoring the courts that are still in office in older premises. However, the budgetary situation suggests caution with regard to extensive structural measures in older buildings. The Ministry assumes that the management of the courts, together with the local police authority, imposes the necessary security measures in cases where the nature of the case and/or actors indicate additional security measures. Such measures include both employees, parties and the public. Threats to employees are also primarily a police matter. Timetables are difficult when the protection of national courts can be completed. The examination of the position of the Structural Committee on the future number of courts, and their location, will be essential for the final conclusion of all courts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1210	I thank you for the answer, but I'm not so happy with it, because in the case of Stavanger thinghouse, which this committee visited, there are very bad measures for employee security, and the audience can almost walk in and out as it suits them. When it was then notified by the Justice Committee that the security of the courts of the country had to be monitored as soon as possible, I believe that «as soon as possible» should ensure that it has to be implemented as quickly as possible. I do not think it was in the Government's response that this should go very quickly. Can the Council confirm that there will now be a continuation of this, so that, for example, the warehouses or courts that are currently poorly secured can get help from Securitas?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1217	I regret that the representative Johnsen is not satisfied, but there are actually quite a number of measures that have been taken. So the treatment of the structure selection setting will be decisive for what time you can be done. But until that is clear, individual requests from the courts on security issues will be a priority task as well as the general running assessment. And since Stavanger has been particularly mentioned here: for Stavanger thinghouses in particular, the proposal for a solution was presented to the court leaders in the summer of 1997. In the context of a renegotiation of the lease to be concluded soon, better security for those added will be a goal. So this isn't much longer, and then the department expects them to solve the question when it comes to Stavanger.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1224	I thank you again for the answer, which I think was somewhat better now. In fact, the Minister went very far in bringing Stavanger forward, which was basically the reason why the Justice Committee drew up this problem. I am pleased that Stavanger will now get this straight soon, after what the minister says, but I would also like to point out that the places in the country that have not yet secured should be offered it, possibly through Securitas as an emergency solution.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1229	It's so strange, when home is called, one is immediately more naked.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1240	This question has been postponed to the next question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1246	This question, from Bendiks H. Arnesen to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1249	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘Through the media, there is some information that injured persons have serious problems in obtaining legal settlement from insurance companies within an acceptable timeframe. Although the limitation period has changed, the long treatment period creates serious problems for those affected and adds to the burden of the injury itself. What will the Council of State do to remedy this?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1258	Initially, I would like to insist that Norwegian law is based on a two-track system of economic benefits for the injured. On the one hand, damage can lead to benefits from the public social security system, and on the other hand, this system is complemented by compensation and insurance schemes. Once you have chosen to have a system of private insurance schemes for, inter alia: injury to persons, issues of fundamental and wider scope arise if the public is to intervene directly in the specific proceedings other than in the proceedings of the courts. Nevertheless, the Department will, of course, follow developments and will always be aware of whether appropriate measures and regulatory improvements may be relevant in relation to a problem such as this. In this respect, I mention that the Minister for Health has created a sample that, among other things, has a mandate to assess the cooperation between the insurance company and an expert doctor in claims claims. The mandate allows the sample to address related issues as well. The investigation shall be carried out in the autumn of 1999. The time period for dealing with personal injury has, among other things: the consistency of many judgement themes embedded in the decision-making process. The matter is often about finding out what will be the full compensation for the financial loss of the victim. Medical difficulties that lead to conflicting medical assessments are factors that cause lengthy treatment. The Ministry of Justice is working to facilitate the establishment of a new medical advisory body. The purpose of this is, inter alia, to: to contribute to a reduction in the time between the damage and the final insurance payment. The work is complicated, among other things. because, on the one hand, the group representatives concerned have conflicting views on how such a body should operate and a well-functioning system must have sufficient confidence in all camps. The Personal Injury Committee indicated that other possible measures relating to the assessment of claims would be of little benefit if the issue of conflicting medical assessments were not resolved. In particular, the injury committee has raised the question of reducing the discretionary elements of the compensation assessment. However, if this might have a positive impact on the duration of the proceedings, rules of this type could act as a two-edged sword: standardisation moves away from the current legal basis that the full economic loss is individually assessed, which is to be replaced. Therefore, the idea of standardisation during the hearing is also met with scepticism from bodies that can be said to represent the victim’s side. During the hearing, doubts were also expressed as to the possible importance of this for the speed with which damage can be settled. As can be seen, the work is under way around the issues of the respondent and the objective must be to complete the settlement of the damage within an acceptable time frame. I assume that the insurance companies also have such a goal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1273	I thank you for your answer. A number of newspaper headlines tell of tragic damage, where the situation of the victim is exacerbated as a result of a slow procedure in the insurance companies. I've even talked to people who've been waiting for years for their legitimate settlement. These can report on the consequences of their damage, such as loss of income, loss of homes and homes with consequent family problems, mental problems and other illnesses due to the economic problems. Often, there is a look-up in the press that continues in the companies and that results in payment. It shouldn't be like that. I then ask: is it possible to introduce a system where the victim receives a partial payment immediately after the damage has taken place? As I understand it, there are such arrangements in some of our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1284	I agree entirely with the question raised by the representative of Arnesen in relation to what individuals and single families must suffer when they are indebted to it. It is clearly unworthy and should not happen. There is also the background to the fact that the department has now given the highest priority to the medical advisory body, because the conflict, very often between two bodies, seems to be strongly delayed. Standardisation is, as I said, a concern for some of the victims. We have not taken the position for that. It seems interesting to me that the representative Arnesen has put forward on the basis of arrangements in our neighbouring country. I don't see that it wouldn't be possible to implement it, but it obviously needs to be examined more closely, and it needs to be evaluated. I take it back with me, and I promise that it will be evaluated in the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1299	This question has been postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1305	‘The Youth Guarantee shall remain in place. Nevertheless, a FAFO report shows that half of those who remain out of school or work are not caught. Labour market statistics only reveal 35 long-term unemployed under 20 years of age. Does the Council of State see the need for changes in its procedures in order to capture and register young people without work or schooling, so that those covered by the guarantee are offered?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1312	Reform 94 aims to provide a place for all young people in high school. The result has also been that almost the entire youth group completes secondary school. However, there is a small group that is not in the ordinary school system. In order to follow up on these, a specific county follow-up service was established. This service shall ensure that young people receive either the provision of training organised for their particular needs, the provision of practical space or the provision of regular work in cooperation with the labour market seat. The labour market seat shall therefore cooperate closely with the follow-up service. Our impression is that this cooperation works well. The FAFO report shows that both the scale and the quality of cooperation have undergone positive developments. The report shows, among other things: a majority of the agencies state that there is now a written agreement between the Agency and the follow-up service and that the agencies now perceive to have a common target group. At the end of 1998, there were 2,088 registered unemployed in the 16-19 age group. Of these, only 35 had been available for more than six months. This shows that the Youth Guarantee works. The statistics of the State of Labour are based on the arrival of job seekers at the employment offices and the registration of themselves as unemployed. This is voluntary. For various reasons, a part may choose not to register. The labour force survey of the Central Bureau of Statistics, AKU, is based on a survey in which a random sample of the population is called up and asked for their connection to the labour market. This represents a useful complement to the labour market set for registration of unemployed persons. The Labour Force Survey also shows that the number of long-term unemployed among young people under 20 years of age is very low. All in all, it is my opinion that the Youth Guarantee works as intended. We state to the Labour Market Act that the Youth Guarantee should be implemented every year and have stressed that the ETF should cooperate closely with the follow-up service. I therefore do not see the need for any conversion of the procedures in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1331	I thank the Council of State for the answer. So if the Youth Guarantee is to be met, you have to get hold of it. And when studies show that there is a big gap between the number of students or young people registered in the follow-up service and those in the unemployment line, it is in my opinion right to look at the routines. Six months without offers are too long for a youth. It is already expected that there will be no activity, no schooling or work. The fact that they do not register for the labour market seat but are registered in the follow-up service shows that there is a large gap here. The survey also shows that a large number of those who are unsolicited want work. Does the Minister of Administration not see that using the labour market more actively in relation to these young people could actually offer them an offer?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1338	It is the follow-up service that has the primary responsibility to capture this age group. And since the cooperation between the follow-up service and the labour market seat has developed as positively as it has, I see it as the best prerequisite for those who have not yet been offered or wanted to accept offers of neither work nor school, to be caught up and motivated for either a combination of school and work or one of the parts. This is a group that in many ways has not been so easily motivated, but I believe that when the labour market seat and the follow-up service get hold of them and manage to motivate them, they must also be able to catch them. I think the routines for catching them up are good enough. We should also remember that someone actually does not thank, and they have no obligation to either work or go to school, but they have a right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1349	What I'm afraid when you say that the primary responsibility is one place, is that other agencies don't go in and do what they can to solve this problem. What's a little problematic about a lot of these things is that when you put the responsibility in one place, the others get a little less involved. Now there are many places this collaboration works well, but it can also be done more. Governments also point out that these are school-unmotivated students, but many of them are motivated to work. That's why I want you to see a little less rigid about the desire for these students to go to school. I think that if you had managed to get the right to secondary education to apply to everyone, you could get rid of this hysterical focus on young people between 16 and 19 years of age on death and life sitting on the school bench. I think that many of them need longer training and a longer period of work, and such a statutory right for everyone could give them such schooling in the future. Does the Council of State see this context as I see it?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1358	I see the context, and this FAFO report does not say that there is either work or school; there are many solutions in the combination of working life and learning. And the labour market systems used in this context largely motivate young people to go back and continue school. I therefore do not think it is right to present this as something either – or, in fact, it is both – and. But it's the motivation of these people who don't have anything to deal with, and they're caught up in the follow-up service. The labour market and follow-up services have now come to understand that they have a common target group, and I am assured that it is possible to improve the measures or get combined actions for young people in this age group.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1366	I allow the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘In one of Oslo’s most expensive residential areas, state employees are offered apartments far below market prices. Will the State Council look at Statsbygg its rental prices in general, so that they will harmonize more with what is market rental, and thus increase revenues, which are more proportionate to the real value of the apartment?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1375	State buildings today own 540 apartments and cabins in Oslo. Some of these are used as transit or recruitment homes with a regular rental period of not more than three years. Some residential complexes are rented out as personnel housing for the Rikshospitalet and Radium Hospital. In addition, 30 to 40 of the dwellings are earmarked for political management in the departments. State buildings are in the process of developing a new strategy for the management of their dwellings. This will be seen in the context of the ongoing strategic work in Stadsbyggen, on which the Stortinget is briefed in the Ministry of Labour and Administration's 1999 budget proposal. The level of rentals in national dwellings has been low from old age, but since 1998, when new rules were adopted for the establishment/regulation of rentals in state dwellings, state buildings have sought to bring rentals up to market levels by means of valuation or valuation. From 1 January 1999, rentals were generally increased by 10 p.m. and from 1 July 1999 there will be a new rental increase of 6 p.m. In the case of removal, the rental shall be assessed and, where appropriate, re-determined by fare before the apartment is re-rented. State buildings have the objective of getting to market rental without being price-leading. State buildings will, in the context of the recent press headlines, stress that for these dwellings there is a relatively simple standard and no additional benefits of any kind.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1386	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The content was also very much in line with the answer I wanted. But I have to say that increases of 10 pst. and 6 pst. is not entirely proportionate when we are talking about rents that may be half of what the market can offer. I also registered that the rental will be re-assessed when the apartments are moved away. I'm glad, because it's very important that the government uses the sources of income that you have, and that you don't have rental income that's too low in relation to the values that the government is sitting on. But we're not going to take too much on rent either – it's going to be market-friendly.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1393	I guess I don't have much more to add. But state buildings will look at their entire rental activities in the strategic work done, in addition to what they are doing now with the gradual increase in the rentals of the contracts they have. State-owned apartments are not offered on the open market, for they are intended to meet the needs of the country. So it's a little hard to say exactly what market rental is, but they're trying to find a rental that's roughly market value. State Building itself believes that the rental for their apartments is approx. 70-75 pst. of prices in an open market, but we are therefore developing in the direction the representative is looking for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1398	Question No 18, 19 and 20 are already answering.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1404	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘The Ministry informed Johnny Stokkeland in a letter dated 9 July 1998 that Lwigal Kapellangård could be sold. This letter states: ‘In the case of the forest, it is intended to remain in the possession of the Information Society Fund’. The chairmanship of Gågebostad has strongly discouraged such division. What is the reason why the department wants to share the property, and is such a division in line with this government's agricultural policy?'
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1413	Lvegal chapel langard was drawn up for the ordinary evaluation of the sale in January 1997 according to guidelines given in St.meld. No 64 for 1984-85. A decision whether or not to sell a prestige is based on an assessment of many factors that are important for the management of the fund. This applies to the economy and the return of the fund, to the needs of the churches, to the efficient management of agricultural property and forests, to the public's need for land, etc. Here you will also find estimates of how much forest will be sold with the property, and if so, how much. After an overall assessment, the sale of the property was decided upon in a letter dated 9 July 1998 and the share of the property was applied for. Saka is now in the municipality for ordinary care according to the laws of the land and planning and building laws. The municipality decides whether division can be made in relation to the laws of the land and buildings, while they oppose the county's agricultural department for decision in relation to the laws of the land. The reason why a person has assessed the sharing of property is the same for Lwigal Kapellangard as for the past performance gardances that have been considered for halls. One element of this assessment is that the fund will also be a large forest owner in the future, where the operation of forests and fields will be one of the economic foundations that the fund needs to have in order to set up tasks for the Norwegian Church. A weakening of the land base will reduce the possibilities for good management and accounting operations. The fund has other forest properties within this district that are being driven along with this particular forest. Forests have a comprehensive management system, and forest that is retained will still be driven in a professional and agriculturally defenceable way and will be of great benefit to the fund. The forest operations on this precinct, as on other precincts, have been managed separately and have never entered into the agreement with the charterer. The fund's forest has been managed and driven by others than the pastor and pacts since the forest director's office was created in the last hundred years. Since then, the State Forests Directorate – no State Forest – has been responsible for the forest management of the Fund. The forest has never been part of the operating unit for which the charterer has been responsible, but I see that it will be a strength in the operation of the charterer if he also gets to take over the forest. My responsibility in this matter is, among other things, to ensure the management of the Information Society’s fund’s ownership. I will now await all the councils that come from public hearing authorities, both at municipal and county level. Before deciding on this matter, I would also like to present the matter to the Ministry of Agriculture for an assessment of the agricultural and forestry activities. On this basis, I will take a decision that takes into account both the management of the Information Society's fund and the agricultural aspects, which the representative Gabrielsen addresses.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1426	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As he said, he has not concluded his assessment of this matter in relation to what will be the final outcome, and that is good. The length of time spent in the ministry on these matters can at least be said to be relatively long and likely to also be extensive, for in fact in the first letter sent to him, it is warned against the length of the procedure. But what I'm concerned about is sharing the property and the agricultural side in that way. The fact that this fund is to be taken into account and that there are to be acceptable financial solutions for the fund is all right. But here I think one is in danger of being able to make a decision that, if it were to go on sharing the property, will not be in line with what others, similar properties get from treatment, because it's very rare that it is granted these types of divisions. What is my question, and to which I did not receive an answer, is whether this practice of litigation for sharing is in line with the agricultural policy of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1433	This is the administration of the Church's goods, and one has had the practice of most of the sales that one has shared in the way that is shown here. At the same time, I agree with the representative Gabrielsen that when a pacter first buys a use, it is important that there is actually a basis for life on that use. Given that this government places great emphasis on viable use in the countryside, I am prepared to discuss exactly that part with the Minister of Agriculture, as I said in my first answer. The final answer may not be received by the representative Gabrielsen at this meeting, other than that there is a procedure going on, but the issues he has raised will be carefully assessed by me.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1438	When Lilletun says they will be thoroughly evaluated by him, I have no reason to believe that so will not happen. He was concerned about this with the "goods of the Church", as he calls it, and then it ran into my mind this scripture that goes on collecting treasures on the earth. It may not be so clever, it often causes more problems than joy. It is well this that the Church has experienced so far in relation to this question-time matter, but which has also been engrossed in some other matters related to the very fund of the Information Society. Maybe it was better to sell the whole thing, so one at least didn't have any problems with that goods. Finally, what I would like to remind the Council of State when dealing with this matter and, in the case of the principle of the approach to similar issues concerning the sale of «Kyrkja's goods», is that one must not get hurt because the State acts in such a way as to share and not share, that one should later be able to say that there is a difference between Jørgen hatmaker and King Solomon, and that it is Lilletun who is King Solomon in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1447	The President will state that the words of the Scriptures are well worth listening to in most cases.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1450	The Minister of the Church will take this to heart. Otherwise, it is quite right that one should consider the pages taken up by the representative Gabrielsen here, but I have to stick to the treatment these matters have received in Stortinget, and manage them accordingly. At the same time, it is clear that a common policy must be pursued, and the agricultural sector must also be assessed. So I'm going to do as I said in my previous answer: go thoroughly into this. This government wants it to build people in the countryside. It was in itself an interesting information that the Right-Representative Gabrielsen did not think one should collect taxes on the earth. I'm also going to take that for information, and we're going to talk about what kind of foundation he had for it, at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1462	I will ask the following questions to the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘Despite the strong focus of the Follow-up Service on getting young people back to school quickly, this rarely succeeds. A research report from FAFO shows that only every third youth in the survey had received evidence of higher education competence. Many were unsolicited. Do the Councils see the need to develop more labour-oriented services to avoid permanent exclusion and that more measures need to focus more on working life than on school?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1471	Following the introduction of a reform 94 follow-up service, a broad-based community device is now ready to follow up on young people who are eligible for training but who have not applied for or taken up training places or who have ended up in the middle of the school year. The follow-up takes place through personal contact with the young person, every school year. This is a major improvement in relation to the so-called old days, which in continuing training is defined as the time before reform 94. Numbers from the follow-up service show that on a European scale Norway has a small proportion of elephants falling outside the continuing training system. The research carried out in connection with the implementation of the reform draws an image of a service that works mostly according to its intentions, but which can still be clearly improved. The representative Karin Andersen's question relates to such an improvement area: the combination of work and training. The evaluation of Reform 94 shows that young people who have had an offer of a combination of work and training have more often continued in continuing training than young people who have done something else, whether they have gone to school, had a place of practice, had a regular job or just gone home. The Labour Market Act is therefore a particularly important partner. It is the county municipality which, through the follow-up service, shall ensure cross-border cooperation between the municipal, county and state bodies responsible for the target group. This cooperation with the labour market seat is not at least a matter of concern. The evaluation of Reform 94 shows that while the labour market seat expects the school to operate in a differentiated, individualised way so that more young people can benefit from the school offer, the guidance service expects that the labour market seat can be set up relatively quickly with qualitatively good practice places. A good cooperation between the county council and the labour market seat on the follow-up service is a criterion for closing down the provision of services to young people. I would therefore like to take the initiative of a meeting with the Ministry of Labour and Administration to discuss the interaction between the follow-up service and the labour market seat, so that the public system can function well in relation to the follow-up service's intentions. I also see the big news about the experience of Reform 94, which Stortinget will get in the spring. The Ministry has also carried out a major part-competence test for those young people with difficulty in reaching full competence. The results of the experiment are good, and the Ministry will continue to work actively on these issues, including: we have close contact with the social partners to create a new tariff area. I'm overconfident that the competence that a person acquires that is different – it's called partial competence, but we should find a new name – must also be able to give a stamp that gives a job, and then we have to have a tariff area. We have a close dialogue with the parties on this. I hope that we will soon get to the goal here, and then that part of the work could be intensified.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1487	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and also for seeing that there may be a need for a meeting between the departments to strengthen the interaction even more. I think I'm positive. Based on the answer given to a question I put to the Minister of Labour and Administration, it turns out that in order to take account of the youth guarantee in the labour market seat, one must have been unsolicited for six months – and that is a long time for a youth. I was a strong supporter of Reform 94, but I'm really afraid it's going to be a school duty, not a school law. I am concerned that we should set up other offers and get away with the very strong focus on school also in the follow-up service, so that you actually get the individual offer. We can come back to that in the evaluation, but I would like to stress that it is important that the Youth Guarantee should continue to have the two legs on, namely school and labour market. I could then imagine asking the Council of State about this follow-up that is now to be done by the departments, could result in actions before we get the evaluation up in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1502	As the evaluation comes now, around Easter times, I believe that what we must have as a goal is to find a grip that we can present in this message. To get it going before that, I think it's hard. I see very clearly the commitment of Karin Andersen and myself have double thoughts in relation to this. We've got a system where everyone can get into further education, and it's given us an overview through, among other things. the follow-up service. But it's clear that we've been able to be so "sculent" in this that it's going to be some, 0-10 pst., or similar, that can fall out, and that's why it's absolutely imperative to do this. Then we need to work together. I just have to admit, there's still a month's way to go. I'm going to try to help make that road proper, but there are many unresolved tasks ahead of us here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1509	The size of the population took a small step on that path yesterday when it came to the reform of competence. The size should have increased and legalised the individual right to higher education. Then we could have gotten rid of the hysterical focus that is now on these 16-19-year-olds on death and life going back to school at a time when they may be a little motivated, and where the motivation for schooling may be destroyed for many years to come. I think we have to look at, as the FAFO report does, that the reason for an end to school, often is that a dissatisfaction there, fails – and then maybe the exclusion mechanism is in the system. The belief that we're all so alike that the structure that we've got now fits everyone, I don't have, and I understand that the council doesn't have it either. But does the Council of State, like me, see that legalizing an individual right to higher education without a requirement for a special age group would have been a solution to this problem?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1514	That was a pretty intelligent question. It may have solved something of this problem in isolation, but I think we must have defined better both organisational grips and scope before we legislate that right. First of all, the government has an obligation to the county to facilitate further training, and I believe that the sum of the competence reforms will be able to provide us with good help here. I think we need some more knowledge before we go the step that the representative Karin Andersen here wants us to go, and so don't give the answer that she wanted today. But I expect the representative, Andersen, to come back at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1519	I'm sure that's what the president thinks.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1525	I have the following questions for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘We can read on a weekly basis in the daily press that refugees/immigrants who have a documentable education from their home country have problems getting this approved in Norway. Will the Council of State take the initiative to enable refugees/immigrants with such a background to undergo professional tests and tests in order to obtain the approval necessary to work within their field of competence in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1534	Since I had a short time ago to give a short and concise answer, I should have said this time, yes, I do. The answer certainly covers this government's intention to get refugees/immigrants to work quickly. When I have to use a few more words than inconspicuously, that's because the answer needs clarification. It is important to note that there is an important difference between the level of vocational education and further training, i.e. the level of education and training. professional and young people's examinations and training in subjects falling within the university and higher education structures. On the one hand, professional staff who are to carry out work in Norway must have the necessary training and authorisation in relation to Norwegian standards in the profession. On the other hand, this government has said that refugees/immigrants with foreign education must have a rapid assessment of their competence with a view to: to obtain recognition for work to determine what is lacking in relation to the Norwegian standard in the subject, and to be guided towards that part of the training system which may complement the lack of competence; In higher education, it is the individual institution which is the approval body for foreign education. The application for recognition of such training shall be sent to the Information Centre for International Education. If the practice of the profession requires a separate authorisation, a search must be carried out by the relevant licensing authority for the subject of such authorisation. This approval system works well, even though we know that it takes a little longer to assess the competence in some cases than it is desirable to do. I want to make sure that the system works as quickly and efficiently as possible. In the case of continuing training, full vocational training from abroad may be recognised as equivalent to Norwegian education in the subject. Vocational training subjects make a professional assessment of the training, while the State Training Office makes final decisions on recognition. The Ministry is now working on guidelines for professional testing of immigrants who are unable to prove this by examination paper or other evidence of competence. The professional tests will provide the opportunity to demonstrate theoretical and practical skills, while at the same time providing information on what is missing in order to report to a professional or youngster test. Advice on any additional training will be provided as part of the scheme. The Ministry is in the final phase of drawing up such guidelines for professional testing. Professional tests and tests requested by the representative Johnsen could also be an important part of the competence reform, in which assessment and recognition of the individual’s real competence should be a natural part of the training cycle.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1566	I thank you for your answer. I think that was a positive answer. I assume that the Minister agrees with me that we are in a field here that is extremely important to those who come here to the country, and not least it is important in view of the costs that the country has in waiting for people to become productive. I wish we were a little more offensive. I myself am on a training board that receives such applications for assessment, and I think we have too poor opportunities to assess this field. I would like to see a kind of probationary system, especially in the professional field, where this should not be a problem. I do not see any problems in getting this to work, for example, on theoretical subjects. I would therefore challenge the minister to look at this and ask him to do something about it. I hope the minister can at least agree with me that we should try to do a job here, so that we get a smoother time and get people to work faster.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1573	It is quite right that the representative Johnsen says it is important, and it is – we should admit – difficult. First, we are generally too conservative when it comes to believing that education from outside is good enough. It's in itself a certain psychological obstacle. The second is of course that we also have to ensure quality. We have recently seen some examples that we have approved corpses that should not have been approved. But there is a difference between vocational education and training, as the representative Johnsen now mentions, and for example. medical training. That is why we have been better, but we can still be better. So we're going to do a bunch of tests. Whether they can also be used in the cases Johnsen is currently dealing with, I'll consider. If it's a better system, let's look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1584	I thank you again for the answer. I think it was positive the last minister said. I have come to know him as a practical man in this field, and that he wants to find solutions if possible. On the basis of the answer given by the Minister, I am sure he will try to find a smooth solution, so that this can be done as well as possible for those concerned. So thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1593	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘In a letter of 12 January 1999 to the Administrative Board of State Special Educational Competence Centres, the Ministry writes that they perceive the examination of the draft budget in Stortingen on 10 December 1998 so that an overall assessment of the resource situation at Bredtvet can also include alternative solutions for the reduction of Søndre Land. The comments and contributions made by the majority of the population in the debate do not open up to such interpretations. When will the Council of State implement the will of the majority of the population to move the trades at Søndre Land to Bredtvet?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1602	In a comment in the Budget Centre. S. No 12 for 1998-99 asked a plurality of the Church, Education and Research Committee – the representatives of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and SV – to take responsibility for the following in relation to the situation at the Bredtvet Competence Centre: a review of the resource situation at the centre, under the new management co-location of the Søndre Land department with the main business of Oslo and the geographical shift of the trade unions to Bredtvet; In the budget debate in Stortinget, I expressed an understanding of the desire to ask the board to review the resource situation at Bredtvet. I asked for support for such a review to be made on the whole of the institution's work, including the academics in the area of speech flow/strainage, which is currently located in Søndre Land. Only the representative Anneliese Dørum from the Workers' Party clearly distanced himself from taking this as the basis for the Board's review. In the debate, Mr Evje and others said: for the Progress Party, it was the most important thing to ‘keep as much of the existing peak competence as possible’. I'm in it. This is also the reason why I want a comprehensive review of the entire resource situation at Bredtvet before I am set to follow up the comment on moving trade preferences from Uppland to Oslo. It should be in everyone's interest for the board to make a proper professional assessment of the situation, including an assessment of an alternative to linking the various disciplines at Søndre Land to a similar professional environment at the Upperby Competence Centre. Unfortunately, the ministry never got the opportunity to ask the old board to look closer to this option, but it was commented on as professionally interesting by the clumsy director. With this in mind, I have this year's letter of 12 January asking the new board to make a holistic assessment of the resource situation at the Bredtvet Competence Centre. On the basis of such a review, the Management Board will make professional recommendations by 25 February. I do not want to follow up on the plural comment about moving the subjects before the result of this professional review. As a government council, I'm busy finding the best professional solutions in matters like this. I would like to say that what I said about this in the budget debate in Stortinget: ‘Some have tried to make this a district policy. It is not. It is a professional question, and if it is professionally equivalent or better, it did not do anything about Uppland, which is so hard to deal with, rather than further centralisation in Oslo.’ Of course, I'm not going to go across the big crowd's will on this issue. If, on a professional basis, the Board of Directors found that the Søndre Land courses should be linked more closely to the Upperby Centre of Competence rather than being moved to the Oslo main institution, I will therefore return to the Stortinget on that basis.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1629	It's alarming and an enormity when the Council of State interprets the majority of the population as he does. We do not want new investigations to be launched on the transfer of posts from Søndre Land to Upperby. This has already been investigated and rejected by the Field Committee. The old Board of Governors of the National Centre of Competence also opposed such a solution, and the employees’ organisations oppose it and justify the fact that the offer of speech difficulties must be made within a comprehensive professional offer, which is currently established on Bredtvet. The Council of State overrun of the clear will of the majority of the population delays the process of conversion and costs the State approximately. One million. kr per. months. I would like to quote from Ursula Evie's intervention in the debate, where she said that the comments 'letter of letter' had to be interpreted. It is also quite clear that the Council of State can read for itself that Søndre Land and Bredtvet must be co-located and that the positions in Søndre Land must be transferred geographically to Bredtvet.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1636	It is not right that the old board assessed the solution that the new board considers. What was assessed was a location of the current institution in Søndre Land and on Bredtvet. The assessment of this in relation to Upperby came from some of them who joined their organisations in the previous phase, and when the director was taken up, she thought it was interesting to have an assessment. Ursula Evje from the Progress Party said that it was about keeping as much of the existing peak competence as possible. There is reason to believe that such a move could lead to a loss of a portion of the peak competence that has been established today. But it's about shifting this by a month and a half. It doesn't cost 1 million. kr!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1643	In the case of peak competence, it is quite clear that a further fragmentation of the subject area of stuttering by adding something to Upperby will mean the opposite of the tipping of competence. It will weaken competence, because it is lubricated thinly, and the more it spreads, the thinner it gets. It is a fact that competence needs to be brought together in order to develop, in this case within a logo-based overall environment in a multidisciplinary context. Therefore, it is also very important that when the Bredtvet is now to be built down, you have to keep your point skills, and that you can develop a professionally heavy environment, because they will have a large field to work within. I have to say that I am startled by the Council of State and his ignoring the majority of the population. We will follow this case closely, but I understand that here there has to be a proposal for the Council of State to comply with the will of the majority of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1650	There's a note in front of it, and I'm fully aware of that. I have said that if something other than what is in that remark should happen, this matter must clearly be returned to Stortinget. But based on what happened in the debate, I think I have the basis for what I have seen going on. The representative Dørum says that there is a risk of loss of point competence, but whether it is strenuous on the part of the learned. If the representative of Dørum is right, then this assessment will give exactly those results. In that case, it's quite obvious that we're already moving on pretty fast after February 25. If, on the other hand, the professional assessments say that the option that has not been considered before is good, the Storting will have the opportunity to look at it. Of course, I will not do anything across what the Storting has said.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1658	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: «By 1 January 1999, all schools and kindergartens were to have a new approval according to the environmental protection regulations. However, it turns out that many municipalities have granted themselves a time limit or a derogation from the regulation. Until the evening post, the Council of State has stated that the Ministry will now provide an overview of the situation in the municipalities and then assess a state authority to enforce the law. What other measures will the Council of State take to ensure a good working environment for children and young people?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1667	The Regulation on environmental health protection in kindergartens and schools, which introduced the authorisation requirement on 1 January 1999, is aimed at students at their working environment. In cooperation with the Minister of Health, who is responsible for the regulation, I want to follow up on how this regulation is gradually being implemented in the schools. It is important to point out that the school owners are responsible for securing the school facilities. The municipality has overseen the responsibility for the foundations he operates, and the county council for the continuing schools. When other measures are involved in improving the school environment, I would like to draw attention to the following: In 1998, the first school building price was distributed. The purpose of this price is to stimulate municipalities and counties to build good school facilities. Every year, a publication will be created describing the school system that received the prize. In cooperation with SINTEF in Trondheim, a booklet is published during the spring half-year that takes steps to build good schools. The booklet is the mint of the municipalities, and is meant to help and support the planning of school buildings. This will be an example of good solutions. The Ministry has issued a guide on indoor climates: ‘How to create a healthy indoor environment in school buildings?’, which was presented on 14 December last year. The target groups for this issue are in the first row of school politicians, members of planning and building committees, school leaders, teachers and parents’ trustees. The goal is to contribute to a greater knowledge of the indoor climate in terms of health, well-being and learning conditions for students, and of the factors to be taken into account when creating a good and healthy indoor environment in the school building. As has been done in the 1999 budget proposal, an inter-ministerial working group has been set up to deal with the legal situation of the working environment of pupils and assesses the need for legislative and regulatory changes. The working group is in the final phase of the work and a complete draft report is being heard by the participating ministries. Finally, I would like to show that large sums have been invested in school buildings in connection with the basic school reform. The State provides compensation to municipalities for the costs of new premises, which are the result of six-year-olds being taken into the coalfield. The State compensation corresponds to an investment framework of DKK 5.2 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1690	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It is gratifying that he also presents positive aspects of the primary school reform, to which the Christian People's Party has had critical remarks and was against in its time. The Council of State referred to the working group which assesses the law. The Council of State has also said in the past that the Ministry is working on a review of the law to assess whether students can obtain a statutory right to a good working environment. However, according to a notice published in the Official Journal of Bergen on 4 December 1998, Lilletun said: "We have no separate work environment law for children. This new regulation is strong enough. Therefore, I wonder if it means that the Council of State has put the ambitions for a working environment law for students on the shelf.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1697	First a little bit about history. It is quite right that the Christian People's Party was opposed to the 6-year-old reform, but at the same time the proponent is that there should be a proper compensation in relation to the expansion of the area, e.g., which was not in the first proposal of the late working party government. Otherwise, I have also tried in a constructive way to contribute to the successful implementation of the fundamental reform agreed by Stortinget's plurality. And there's a lot of positive things about it, which we can spend more time at another time. I haven't changed the ambitions. If it sounds like that, I'm wrong, because what I said in that interview was that we don't have a work environment law today. What we now need to assess, and which must also be assessed on the basis of the work done by the working party, is about the regulation that entered into force on 1 January 1999 is so strong that it actually covers the same area in a good way. We don't have to make confusing laws, so we have to look at: are we going to find good methods to make the regulation work, or are we going to have another law? We need to assess this in the light of that working group's conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1707	I would like to thank you again for your answer. It may be that the regulation is good enough in indoor climates. But the work environment is more than indoor climate. That's also all we put into the term psychosocial work environment. In addition, it is very central in today's work environment law that workers should have a responsibility both for the physical working environment and, for example, for the health and safety at work. participate in conflict resolution. When we know that violence and bullying are a major problem in school, I hope the council will also take this with them in the further work in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1712	It is quite obvious that the representative, Mr. Konglevoll, points out here on all the central sides. It is part of the ordinary work environment law that is quite obviously not applicable to students and students. What has to do with its own involvement, on the other hand, is completely central, similar to some of the other things that the representative Konglevoll now addressed. We're in the process of implementing a new regulation to give the student the right to talk, give them the right to participate, we've made new regulations when it comes to student work. The question is whether they are the ones that the representative Konglevoll now raised, as well as coming in there and supplementing the health and environmental regulations that we received from 1 January. So I haven't concluded here, because I think we'll see this in a context, like this selection does, and then we'll have a discussion of it at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1722	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘The size has repeatedly underlined that reasonable non-discrimination of Norwegian youth is a commitment to maintaining a duty-based defence in Norway. Now it seems that the bodies that perform civil services, for example, municipal or psychiatry, get this charter as a merit in career contexts, while the bodies that evenings have their duty of protection, for example, as bodies in the army, do not get it accepted as a meritorious. What will the Council of States do to correct this unacceptable discrimination?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1731	The issue is not new, it was also presented in a Question Time in 1989. The Ministry of Defence raised the matter with the Ministry of Social Affairs at the time, who submitted the matter to the Directorate of Health. The purpose was to influence the Norwegian Medical Association and the Association's specialist committees, which set out the requirements for specialists and which assess whether the service should be approved as a specialist education. Thus, the defence does not control what kind of service the health authorities approve as meritorious, nor what kind of service the future civil guardians are assigned. It is by today's system The Medical Association that assesses the content and nature of the service on a professional basis. It has been and is clearly still the view of the Medical Association that doctors who serve as guardians of the defence have a snug service that is initially directed at healthy young men, and therefore cannot be accepted as meritorious. On the other hand, civil servants serving, for example, in the field of psychiatry or community health services receive a more varied service that can be credited as meritorious. In my view, there is no reasonableness in the fact that a person who implements the statutory duty of protection comes out worse than one who, for reasons of persuasion, is set to carry out today's community service. In the future too, the general duty of protection will be normal and normative. I would therefore like to take up the system of approval in a broader context directly with the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1744	I thank the Council of State for a positive answer and would like him to be happy. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is quite clear that corruption and government have a responsibility to support a reasonable level of non-discrimination between the Norwegian youth. In this case, it is totally unacceptable that people who do not want to carry out the constitutional duty of protection and receive civil service instead should receive such an advantage in their careers. So here the task must be to find out arrangements, for example. a combination of army and civil medical services, so that this can be meritorious. We have to find a system that solves the problem, because as it is today, it is totally unacceptable. Furthermore, I would like to point out the general situation. After I took this up in the Question Time a week ago, I am constantly getting in touch with examples of something that those who carry out military protection duties think is very unfair. Civil service providers are being treated in a much easier way. So I want to encourage the Council of State to do a proper review of this, so that we can end it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1751	Governments have registered Ingvald Godal’s request to go through some of the problems that have recently been brought to the surface and that have also been addressed in the questionnaire here in Stortinget. I'll follow that up to the extent that it's possible, I'm of course dependent on some input to do it. But in order to also provide a positive information, I can say that from 1 January this year a new system for managing specialist training is in place, through the establishment of a new national council for specialist medical training. There is a basis for re-establishing the matter within the new framework agreement that is now in place, and since it is a very good working environment and a good dialogue within the Government, I have already taken the opportunity to address this with the Minister of Health, who is sitting next to me in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1761	This question, from Bendiks H. Arnesen's representative to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1764	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘A multi-functional boy in Tromsø has lost his transport offer because his specially equipped social security car had to be conditioned after an accident. Are the rules such that new excesses must be paid upon the necessary acquisition of a new car, and what may be done to change this?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1773	Social security can provide support to the car for disabled people. Car-salvation may be provided to disabled persons with significant and permanent mobility difficulties. It must be demonstrated that the applicant has a real and significant need for transport. The nature of the disability must be such that travel by public means of transport is not possible or does not result in such a burden of a lasting nature that it is not reasonable to require the use of public transport. Social benefits for the purchase of a car are granted as an interest-free and deductible loan. The loan is economically tested against income. When the adjustment of the car for a wheelchair user leads to the need to register a car in a lower charging group, interest-free and non-deductible loans from the public interest may also be granted to cover the additional charge. This loan is granted without an economic needs test. Under the rules in force, the interest-free and deductible loan for the purchase of a car shall be repaid in the event of a debt settlement. Debts exceeding the car's value are written off. When the car is partly financed by the owner – either as a result of the need test, or because the owner has acquired a more expensive car than has been paid for – the settlement rules mean that the equity is lost only when the car drops in value. The interest-free and deductible loan to the additional charge for passenger car registration shall be refunded equal to any value added that the passenger car registration gives the car at the time of settlement. The excess part of the loan is depreciated. In the Riksstrøgdeverket’s circular, it is stated that the added value of passenger car registration is falling rapidly and that the practice of the social security office at that point should therefore be modest. According to the Nordlys production on 12 January 1999, in the specific case raised by the representative Arnesen, two loans have been granted from the public interest, 30 000 kroner respectively for the purchase of the car and 134 000 kroner for the payment of the additional charge for passenger car registration. According to what appears in the paper, the settlement rules have not been correctly applied in this case. Of the insurance payment of NOK 155 000, the social security must have repaid the loan of NOK 30000 for the purchase of a car. In addition, if necessary, the social security must have refunded a smaller proportion of the loan for an additional charge, ideally equivalent to the added value represented by the passenger car registration when the car was taxed in connection with the insurance settlement. The Rikstrøgde works have stated that the passenger car registration cannot be considered to represent any added value in this case. In that case, the social security claim is only NOK 30 000. The Swedish Social Security Agency contacted the County Street Agency to correct the error. If the family wishes to acquire a new social security car instead of settling debts, the entire insurance payment shall be deducted from the capital requirement of a new car. I agree that, in certain cases, the debt settlement rules can give adverse results. The Ministry aims at a thorough review of the car aid scheme in 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1799	: I thank the Council of State for a clear answer, and I would like to take the opportunity to commend the Department for a very rapid response when this matter became known in the press. You might be a little surprised that the legislation is so that it can be misunderstood. I'm glad you're now taking the time to review, so you don't have to do this in retrospect. The purpose of such car systems is that people with disabilities should receive a good transport offer without being economically ruined. I am satisfied with the answer, and I look forward to the review to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1806	I would like to thank Mr Arnesen for the honour he gives, and I would like to share that honour with the Rikstrygdewerk, who also dealt with this specific matter, and who, of course, has a responsibility to propose improvements and adaptations in a legislation that needs to be complicated in many ways, but which can be constantly improved and further developed, so that it can be managed in the best possible way to please the users for whom it is intended to meet the needs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1821	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1827	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘According to the evening post of 11 January 1999, Norway has again filed a complaint with the Council of Europe’s Torture Commission on the grounds that a severely debilitating detention centre was detained in prison for five weeks due to a lack of space in psychiatric hospitals. The Ministry of Justice decided to place the mentally ill person in prison. Is it the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health that is responsible for the treatment and care of mentally ill inmates?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1836	Health services in prisons are an integral part of ordinary health services, so prison inmates have the same rights under the municipal health and hospital law as other residents. That is why the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has the overall responsibility for prison health, including psychiatric services. The County Council is responsible for the psychiatric health services of prisoners. Entry into a psychiatric hospital takes place at the institution to which the individual resident belongs. Emergency and outpatient treatment is provided by the county where the individual institution is located. With regard to the case in question, the representative Alvheim, the State Health Inspectorate, was briefed on the situation of this patient at the end of November 1998. On 22 December 1998, the Health Inspectorate sent a letter to the county doctor in Nordland and asked the county doctor to check whether the case had been scientifically assessed from Nordland Psychiatric Hospital. The county doctor has been asked to respond by the end of January 1999. I can't or will now comment on whether the health service has failed in this matter, but will come back to it on the basis of the report that the supervisory authorities will produce. In general, the prison system is responsible for facilitating the design of settlement environments that do not appear unnecessarily burdensome and at worst cause of disease. The proposal on resource departments as referred to in St.meld. No 27 for 1997-98, on criminal law, can be an instrument in this context. Both the physical design of buildings, staff density and the competence of prison officials can be important factors in the health of prisoners with mental disorders. Finally, I would like to point out that the changes adopted in the penal code with new specific criminal law reactions have consequences for mental health protection. Lawbreakers who were psychotic at the time of action can be judged for mandatory mental health protection and must be provided in a satisfactory psychiatric institution, if necessary in the security department. The Roadmap for Mental Health 1999-2006 therefore suggests the development of 160 new hospital sites during the planning period for persons sentenced to psychiatric treatment, equivalent to investment expenditure of 346 million. NOK and increased operating costs by 196 million. kr during the planning period.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1847	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer and am pleased that the Minister of Health expressly states that the responsibility for mentally ill inmates lies with the health services. It is a disgrace for Norway to be reported to the Torture Commission for the deleterious, inhuman treatment of mentally ill. The case of Bodø County Prison is not unique. At Ringerijk Kretshängsel, a insane lady has been in custody for 510 days. The government’s own budget documents for the current year state that from five to seven highly psychotic people are in Norwegian prisons every day, and that situation has lasted for several years. Will the Minister of Health here and now undertake to ensure that there is now a stop to keeping people suffering from mental illness in Norwegian prisons?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1854	It is the responsibility and responsibility of the health care services for this group of people that we are talking about here. The Minister of Health has taken responsibility by presenting the Stortinget with an escalation plan for the psychiatry where this problem is addressed. The size has agreed that it should be part of the escalation of mental health protection to provide treatment facilities for this group of people. I have undertaken to follow up on that, and of course I do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1859	I thank the Minister of Health again for the answer. I am fully aware of what lies in the plans to improve this situation. But plans are one thing, practice is another thing, and it takes quite a while before we get the new resource sites that the Minister of Health talked about. I believe something needs to be done now, and that you should not wait with it. In fact, it has been documented that after hospitalization, which was a special hospital for this type of patient, there have been very many unfortunate situations of mental illness in Norwegian prisons. Had the advice of the Advancement Party been followed, a special institution for these patients had long since been in place. I would like to recommend to the Minister of Health that immediate action be found now as soon as possible to remove the mentally ill people who are currently in Norwegian prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1871	In addition to the adopted phasing-out plan, we will assess from the Ministry's point of view the supervisory report on the specific matter raised by the representative Alvheim. If it triggers special measures on the part of the department, we will, of course, follow it up. I would also like to point out that a fast-working committee has looked at the situation in the case of mentally ill people who commit serious crimes. The report is subject to very rapid treatment in the system to meet the need for as rapid a response as possible to this group. That's what I'm going to say at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1883	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Health: ‘In individual regional hospitals, the last few years have paid for the precious cellular poison treatment with Taxol in other hospitals in the region to increase capacity and relieve regional hospitals. From 1 January 1999, the Regional Hospital in Trondheim will no longer pay for this to the cooperating hospitals. Does the Council of State think that it makes sense that these hospitals may be forced for economic reasons to send patients to the Regional Hospital in Trondheim or to the Radium Hospital that they would otherwise be able to treat themselves?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1892	Treating hospitals shall always have a complete responsibility for the patient when this is professionally sound. Economic conditions shall not normally override professional judgements in the selection of treatment sites or treatment options. New medical technologies are usually expensive when introduced, but at the same time the price is often reduced as current technology is used more widely. It is important here that new treatment options are made available to the patient group concerned. A specific grant is therefore granted to regional hospitals to cover additional costs for new functions. Taxol is an example of a new treatment method that is natural to be introduced in regional hospitals, but can also be used in other hospitals after professional judgement. To further strengthen new functions, regional hospitals received additional basic grants of 12 million in 1995. Dr as a result of increased costs of patient treatment, among others. to expensive medicines. The corresponding increase in the basic grant was continued from 1996 onwards. Until 31 December 1998, treating hospitals received direct outpatient reimbursements for cell toxicity treatment. However, from 1 January 1999, cell poison treatment is financed through input-driven funding – ISF – and then it is the county municipalities and not the hospitals that receive the reimbursement. Change in funding gives county municipalities better opportunities to ensure an appropriate division of tasks between hospitals, as opposed to a situation where reimbursement for cell toxicity treatment is directly dependent on individual hospital activity. In order to take account of large price differences, in particular in the case of cytotoxic treatment, we want to develop input-driven funding further towards stronger price differentiation. A fairer reimbursement system will further improve the possibilities for the appropriate organisation of treatment provision, which I agree with Mr Løvik that we need to strive for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1905	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and will stress what he says that it is ‘important that new treatment options are made available to the patient group concerned’. In a letter dated 7 December 1998 from that kgl. Ministry of Social and Health of the County Hospital of Volda, the Ministry says that, in addition to regional hospitals, ‘does not currently have own funding for expensive drugs’. Today, the Council of State states the following: ‘However, from 1 January 1999, cell poison treatment is financed through input-driven funding — ISF — and then the county councils and not the hospitals receiving the reimbursement.’ Would it mean that the individual county receives reimbursement as part of input-driven financing? And what a county municipality it might be that gets this when we talk about the relationship between the Regional Hospital in Trondheim and the hospitals in More and Romesdal, which this costs 1.2 million. Extra kr a year?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1925	The change that has occurred means that what was previously an outpatient reimbursement for cell poisoning treatment, which went directly to the treating hospital, is now included in the input-driven financing, which, moreover, has been significantly increased through the budget management of the Storting, and then the funds go to the county council in question. It provides opportunities for a more comprehensive and appropriate division of tasks between county hospitals. It's briefly told the way the change works. As mentioned in my first answer, we want to further develop this system in the future, precisely to capture the large price differences involved in so-called cytotoxic treatment, with a view to making the offer more adaptable.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1932	I would like to thank you again for your answer. It's quite interesting what's being said by the Minister of Health, that it's More and Romsdal County that, as I understand it, are going to be refunded to Taxol, which is used in the four hospitals in More and Romesdal. In a letter from the Regional Hospital in Trondheim to the County Hospital in Volda, the argument about the county economy and the Regional Hospital in Trondheim is the most important argument. I think it's a justice case, the same way we can design these reimbursement schemes, that we have the ability to have this supply decentralised, both to save resources and to provide a closer and better supply. I ask the Minister of Health to confirm that these reimbursements are given to More and Romesdal, and I would also like to know a little bit more about the future improvement of the reimbursement arrangements, which he mentioned at the end of the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1939	In this regard, I would like to limit myself to saying that we are aware of the problem raised by the representative of Løvik. We will start work on the further development of input-driven funding to take more account of price differences that exist in different treatment methods. This will mean that the input-driven funding going to the county municipality will capture this better than is the case today. To the extent that there are uncertainties in understanding the conversion that has occurred at the turn of the year, we will of course ensure that in our information and communication with the hospitals and county municipalities we clarify this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1947	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The government has decided to ask the government to consider allowing doctors over 70 years of age to operate medical practice with reimbursement from popular concern because they are a resource for the health care system and there is shortage of doctors. There is also a great lack of psychologists and physiotherapists. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that psychologists and physiotherapists over 70 years of age who otherwise meet the requirements of practice can also have the practice of reimbursement from popular security?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1956	When examining the new agreement policy in the spring of 1997, the Stortinget decided that from 1 July 1998 it would be a prerequisite for social security disintegration that the professional had an operating contract. At the same time, a transitional system was adopted for professionals who had reached 62 years of age before 1 July 1998. The scheme meant that doctors, psychologists and physiotherapists who had the right to reimbursement and were over 62 years of age retained the right to reimbursement without requiring an operating agreement until the age of 70. In the examination of the 1999 budget, the Stortinget Government asked to consider lifting this limitation to 70 years for doctors with good health. As part of this assessment, the Ministry has come to the conclusion that it is right to restore the right of reimbursement for professionals who lost the right to reimbursement on 1 July 1998 because they had already crossed the 70-year limit. I haven't seen it natural to restrict this change to include only doctors. The change is therefore also applied to specialists in clinical psychology and physiotherapists and will apply to each person for as long as he/she is authorised.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1963	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and that was a positive answer. I think it was an incurrency that the Stortinget restricted the comment to medical attention. But I have to ask the Council of State if his answer is so to understand that what he will now do on the basis of the decision of the Storting, only applies to those professionals who had just passed 70 years on 1 July 1998. I see Storting's decision as a wish that even those who pass 70 years, even though at the time of the new agreement policy they were younger than 62 years old, and otherwise have good health and conditions, should still receive reimbursement, if we have shortages of doctors, physiotherapists and psychologists. I'll ask the Council of State if he can make it clear that this does not just apply to those who just per. 1 July 1998 was in that situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1970	I'm aware that the Bighold's assessment mission, because that's what it is, is further fanning than the group that I've now mentioned. That's why I said in my first answer that the change we're now making is as part of the evaluation the department is asked for. That means that there will be several stages in that assessment, and the questions raised by the representative, Høegh, will be assessed as requested by the Stortinget. That assessment has not been completed. But we have already found at this point to be able to make such a change as I have described here, and to allow it to apply to a larger group than the Stortinge's decision in its wording aims towards. I would also like to point out that it is this group that the Norwegian Medical Association has been particularly concerned about attending, and they have confirmed this also after Storting's treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1975	I again thank the Council of State for the answer, and I think it is positive that the department reacts so quickly. But I'm also glad that the Council of State is now clarifying that this is the first paragraph of an assessment that should go further. I hope the Council of State will, at least in connection with the budget for the next year, if not before, present an assessment that is positive also in relation to a larger group. It's probably true that the Council of State pointed out that the Norwegian Medical Association is most concerned about this very small group. But the Storting has probably been concerned with more, because we fear that the problem of lack of body, psychological deficiency and physiotherapist deficiency will not be solved by the small grip that the Council of State launched as its first. I hope, as I said, that the assessment will go further, and the Council of State confirmed it well in and of itself, and I hope that this further assessment will also come out positively, so that the resources that may lie here can benefit not only professionals, but of course patients first and foremost.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1982	Yes, I will come back to Stortinget with my assessment based on the decision taken by Stortinget. However, I do not agree that there is a small grip on what is now being done. It is a very timely and significant change for those affected — including for those affected by it. With regard to the question of the further assessment requested by Stortinget, I see many major problems and contradictions with it. I cannot therefore give the positive signal here and now that the representative called for Höegh. However, the assessment shall be carried out and shall be submitted to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e1992	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: «In the Eastfold Moss Hospital there has been a regular attendance in the last few years of star players in football who have been treated as soon as they have wanted it, while the Eastern folds wait in monthly treatment queues. This has produced responses among nurses and waiting list patients. Does the State Council consider the hospital’s priorities to be in line with the guidelines for public hospital treatment?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2001	In my reply to the representative Hedstrøm, I assume that this is about the treatment of patients in public health care and not the treatment of a private doctor who has an agreement to rent premises, equipment, etc. in a public hospital. The Norwegian public health system is based on the principles of equal access to healthcare, fair distribution of benefits and good repute with regard to priority for patients. In prioritising patients, the doctor is bound by a number of legal and professional principles and balancing themes. Firstly, the criteria in the waiting time guarantee regulation will have to be used for the assessment. It is apparent from the Waiting Time Guarantee Regulation that one of the objectives of the Regulation is to provide the patient with as much equivalent health care as possible and to ensure a fair distribution of health services. The criteria set out in the Regulation shall ensure that the most serious diseases are prioritised first. Furthermore, Section 25 of the Medical Act states that the doctor must use a professional sense of health. The doctor must assess the patient’s illness, the type of treatment the patient needs, and how well it will be to keep the patient waiting. In addition, the doctor is bound by general requirements on substance, equality and the obligation to refrain from taking external considerations. It follows from those requirements that there shall be no indecent discrimination. In particular, it is necessary to pay attention to whether discrimination is highly unfair and unfair. It is the medical-professional assessments that shall serve as a basis for prioritisation of patients. If some patients, e.g. First in line because, for example, they have a special status in society, this could be abuse of authority and indiscriminate discrimination. If, in the cases referred to here, there is incalculable discrimination, I do not have sufficient grounds for commenting on it. However, the Ministry has been in contact with the State Health Authority, which will investigate the matter through the County Board in Østfold.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2015	I thank the Council of State for the answer, with which I am satisfied, because I understand that a work has been started to investigate the facts. It should be relatively easy to go into the records of the respective patients and look at the diagnosis and to meet the criteria for treatment in public hospitals according to the principle of fairness. What has also been a question in this case is that a number of these well-known professionals live abroad, and it is claimed that they can choose the hospital they want in Norway for treatment. However, is it not true that if they choose treatment in Norway, they must be on the same waiting lists as the Nordics living in Norway, to the respective hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2022	It follows from the hospital law that it is the patient's residence group who is initially responsible for meeting the patient's need for the necessary specialist health care. Patients will not be able to choose hospitals after today’s law in such cases if the resident county has not agreed to this with other counties. However, the government promoted a new patient rights law in the autumn such as: includes the right to free hospital choice throughout the country. The proposed provision would mean that patients do not belong to a particular hospital to the same extent as before, but can freely choose to be treated in hospitals that can offer such facilities. shorter waiting time. However, if the patient is resident abroad and not in Norway, the patient will only have the right to be treated in Norway in exceptional cases. It will therefore be essential whether the patient is resident in Norway or abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2029	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. I understood that correctly, he believed that in cases where you had access to treatment in Norwegian hospitals while living abroad, you had to be in the regular health queue like everyone else. Public health rules do not allow a doctor to be selected in a public hospital. It is fully possible to receive rapid treatment in private clinics of high-quality health professionals, often by surgeons who the top athletes themselves want, if they pay for themselves. Does the Council of State think that this could be a more correct procedure than the one followed by the Hospital Østfold Moss?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2036	I can confirm that in cases where a patient is resident abroad and has the right to be treated in Norway, treatment in Norway shall be provided in accordance with Norwegian legislation and the patient shall be treated in the same way as citizens residing in Norway. This means that the patient has the right to be enroled in line with the priority principles applicable to healthcare in Norway. With regard to the question asked by the representative Hedstrøm, I can agree that if you do not want to follow the priority principles of public health in Norway, it may be a solution to address the private health service. Let me also stress that both the representative of Hedstrom's party and the government, as far as I can see, are concerned that the options will increase, and that the free choice of hospitals will give others and more liberal framework conditions around this. It will probably also put this problem in a new light.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2046	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘In the context of the Government’s decision on changed concession terms in East Marka, the Ministry of Oil and Energy points out that an increase in leakages could lead to outbursts, cracks, dehydration and increased acidification in the area around Puttjerna if no remedial action is taken. NSB Gardermobanen AS plans to establish a water filtration plant. What alternatives will be considered if this installation fails to function?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2055	At kgl. the resolution of 18 December 1998 authorised the NSB Gardermobanen to have a maximum leakage of 220 l/min. in the Puttjer zone. The background for this was that the values affected and the damage that would result from such a leakage could not offset the disproportionate costs that society would be charged by continuing to seal the Puttjer zone. Attention was paid to the fact that there was a limited area that would be affected. Also, ecology in this area is not special in relation to what is usual elsewhere in the East. The authorisation provided for the establishment of remedial measures in the forest starry around the Puttjern. Such conditions are up to the NVE to determine at a later date. The assessment of whether or not to reduce the leakage requirement was made on the basis of the damage that would occur independently of a waterine filtration system, i.e. with a real leakage of 220 l/min. However, the government has noted that the NSB Gardermoban aims to build a waterine filtration plant as one possible remedial measure to achieve an approximate natural water balance. In my opinion, we are now giving the water filtration system a chance to show what it does before the NVE assesses any other remedial measures that need to be taken. In any case, it will be important to isolate the damage and also to limit it for safety reasons. As I said, this is a very limited area. I am sure that the NVE will follow up the concession terms at this point and define the remedial measures that are necessary at all times in the forest starry around the Puttjern.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2064	I would like to thank you for your answer. I guess we have to give this water filtration plant a chance, as the situation is. I am also pleased that the Council of State believes that the NVE must define the remedial measures that are necessary at any time in the forest star around the Puttjern. At least it's soothing. The total leakages that we are talking about here create great uncertainty for the residents and have been a psychological burden for many, as the county states in its statement. It has been important for us from Oslo to regain the ecological balance in the East. After all, we are talking about the quality of life of the densely populated and most polluted valley in Norway, namely the Groruddalen. I would like to ask the Council of State: will she also take an initiative to assess the environmental impact related to the outdoor interests in relation to the various scenarios that would arise if the water filtration plant failed to function?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2075	Let me first point out that a decision like this is of course not a simple one. It's a balance where we had to look at both the values that are affected – and it's clear that Oslo's people's relationship with the East Mark as an open-air area is one of the things that are an important value. Against the damage that could occur, we had to weigh the enormous costs that a continued seal was in the process of imposing on society. It was the assessment theme, and it wasn't easy. I would like to stress that the aquatic filtration theme in itself was not a prerequisite for the decision that was made, because there can be no decisive emphasis on the water filtration plant as a remedial measure, in the sense that the impact of such a plant may be uncertain. Now we get let it work for a period. But it is important, regardless of the water filtration plant, that the NVE looks at the necessary remedial measures at all times, which can go on different things, from securing the beach zone to operating forest care or securing unspoiled areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2082	I am pleased with the clarifications that the Council of State has now made, and that it will look at the necessary remedial measures at all times if this water filtration plant does not work. There is also some uncertainty related to the impact assessment carried out in the case of Lutwater, still according to both the NVE and the Ministry of Oil and Energy. This uncertainty is claimed in the Annex to kgl. the resolution of 18 December 1998 to include, inter alia: do not have enough precipitation data for the area. The County has pointed to the importance of Lutwater as a unique and rare biological lake. What do you do if the uncertainty turns out unlucky, that this leak is too big? I would also like to ask what the ministry intends to do in relation to the fact that all the watercourses in Oslo were actually protected in a major decision 25 years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2091	It is true that all watercourses in the East are initially protected. In that case, one shall be withholding development measures in the area. In this case, there is talk of damage that has occurred and the assessment theme related to the leakage values has been: What can be allowed to maintain a natural water balance in relation to the damage that has already occurred? As regards Lutwasser, the question raised by the representative Nybakk about diversity and open air areas was raised during the last treatment. This was one of the reasons why the Ministry chose to maintain the NVE’s recommendation and stressed the County’s assessment of Lutwater as a distinct biological area and open-air area. We will follow the developments related to Lutwater and the water balance in Lutwater carefully. In the case of the Puttjern, the emphasis on the specific biodiversity or open-air concerns was not given by the county to the same extent.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2100	So we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2106	This question, addressed to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment, who is directing it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2109	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: ‘Recent press information suggests that the original pilgrim trail passed through the Groruddalen, not via Ringerijke, where the national pilgrim trail has been laid. What will the Council of State do to indicate that the original member passed through the Groruddalen, so that the most accurate historical representation is obtained, and that this can contribute to a cultural-historical uplift for the Groruddalen?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2118	I have noted with pleasure the interest shown by the press in the pilgrimage, and the discussion of whether the member has gone through the Groruddalen or not. It is very positive that the public and the press engage and put cultural memories and history on the agenda. The work on the project "Pilegramsleden" began in 1993, and some objectives were set for this work. One goal was to mark one important pilgrimage to Nidaros, from Oslo to Trondheim. Existing joints were selected, among others. on the basis of an open process in which the audience was invited to make recordings of where the team was going in Oslo. Although one trasé was chosen westward to the Ring Kingdom, it has of course never been intended to substantiate the fact that there have been pilgrims eastward through the Grorud Valley over the Roman Empire, along the east side of Mjösa and to Hamar. There has never been one way to Trondheim. That is why I react when the use of words in the press goes to history forgery. There are many roads leading to Rome, and I will add: there are many roads leading to Nidaros. The decision on where the national member of the ‘Pilegramsleden project’ was to go was based on two important arguments. First, we would have three points associated with Olav the Holy: Ring Kingdom, where he grew up, Stiklestad, where he fell, and Trondheim with Nidarosdom. In addition, it was important that this should be an experience for today's hikers, and that there are many cultural memories on the way. On the other hand, there are many cultural memories also in the Grorud valley, raised above any doubt. In addition, I would like to recall some other objectives of the ‘Pilegramsled project’, including: to stimulate the revitalisation of other central pilgrims in the country and to stimulate the protection and use of historical pathways in the landscape. Local forces in Groruddalen are free to take the initiative to revitalise, map and mark a connection link through the Groruddalen and to Hamar. Such a link must be approved by the Riksantikvaren and must follow the official guidelines drawn up by the Directorate for Nature Management and the Riksantikvaren, inter alia. documentation requirements and consistency of the membership. The member may, for example: do not pass through the Groruddalen and then stop at the border of Akershus. A link through the Groruddalen therefore requires cooperation across county and municipal borders. I know that it is working with the connection manager in several places in Norway, among others. a link from Sweden through the Østerdalen. I would therefore encourage local firefighters in Groruddalen and other interested parties to contact either the City Antiquities in Oslo or the Riksantikvaren in order to start work on mapping and approving a connection link back to Groruddalen and to Hamar. I am aware that the Groruddalen History Team has contacted the Riksantikvaren to discuss the possibility of a link through the Groruddalen. The meeting shall be held next week. I will await the outcome of this meeting. I would also like to add that increased focus on the Groruddalen, both in relation to cultural history and in relation to outdoor life and near-recreation, is very positive and fully in line with key environmental policy objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2137	As formerly inquirers have been here today, Groruddalen is one of the heavily burdened areas of Oslo. The historical sources are quite unambiguous about the fact that this is where the original member has gone. The oil link is equally strong with this member, so I was somewhat disappointed with the Minister's response. I had hoped that she could have been a little more obligating. That is why I repeat the question: will the Council of State take concrete action to help identify this member through the Groruddalen? Former Minister for the Environment, Thorbjørn Berntsen and former National Antiquities, Lunde, among others. has expressed a positive opinion in this way and said that they will contribute. So I hope the department does its job.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2142	As Danielsen's representative was in the room, the Groruddalen is a heavily charged area, both in terms of traffic, noise and pollution. It is important to take care of and develop the very positive values that exist in the area, and there is no doubt that working with cultural memories and history can be such a positive driver. Among other things, we have experience of the Cultural Memory Year showing it. I am very much in favour of contributing to the fact that there is also a link marked through the Groruddalen. But as I said in my first answer, I think it's natural to wait for the meeting that is now going to be between the Groruddalen history team and the Riksantikvar, to look at what those coming up to, not least because I believe the identity in relation to a pilgrimage and to local history memories is probably so strong in the cases where the initiative comes from below.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2149	So we go back to question 34.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2156	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: ‘Regional policy guidelines for coordinated spatial planning shall ensure that collective development is considered as an alternative in line with road development. The municipality of Bergen has recently adopted the municipality sub-plan for the Dokken and the Bay of Nests without considering the ‘collective option’. How will central planning authorities ensure that alternatives to new road development receive an equivalent assessment in the work of the municipality of Bergen and other urban municipalities’ spatial plans?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2165	In this specific case, the municipality of Bergen has recently adopted a regulatory plan. I am aware that the plan has been appealed, and it will now be dealt with by the county council in Hordaland. During the appeal proceedings, the County shall examine all aspects of the case. It is therefore not right for me to comment further on this specific matter now. The national policy guidelines for coordinated land and transport planning mean that development patterns and transport systems are to be seen in the context. As the representative Valle points out, the various modes of transport need to be assessed together, so that public transport is explored as an alternative to increased road capacity. An important objective of the guidelines is to facilitate the most efficient, safe and environmentally friendly transport and to reduce transport needs. Municipalities, county councils and state authorities are responsible for monitoring the guidelines in municipal and county planning. The representative Valle asks how the central authorities will ensure that alternatives to new road development receive an equivalent assessment in the urban area plans. I would like to point out that the guidelines are to ensure that such alternatives are evaluated. The Ministry of the Environment supports the work of professional and economic, local and regional authorities on spatial and transport planning tasks. The municipality of Bergen participates in the Environmental Urban Programme, the objective of which is environmentally friendly and sustainable urban development, with land and transport planning as a key challenge. Work on the national transport plan is in full swing and will replace the previous sectoral plans. The national policy guidelines for coordinated land and transport planning provide guidance for the planning process. Last year, the Ministry of Transport called for local work to be started on collective planning to provide a better basis for priorities. Work on the national transport plan provides for a specific mention of plans to address transport and transport-related problems in each of the metropolitan areas.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2180	I thank you for your answer. I listened with great interest and perceive it so that the Government is seriously concerned about producing the intentions of the national policy guidelines. The background to the question is the planning by the municipality of Bergen of the Dokken and Nøstebukten area, which is located in the middle of the Bergen centre, and where there are many families with children. A four-field road with capacity of 24 000 cars per day is therefore planned here – and this without the collective alternative being assessed. I think it is a paradox that the environmental town of Bergen in its planning work does not follow the national policy guidelines or adopted the principle of bringing down car traffic and achieving sustainable development. It shows that the national policy guidelines are not considered binding, and therefore I would like to ask the Council of State if she will take the initiative to legislate on national policy guidelines in this area, so that it commits municipal planning authorities and is not left to discretion, as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2189	As I said in my first answer, it is important for the Government to arrive at the intentions of the national policy guidelines, which clearly state that total transport solutions should be explored, which also take account of environmental concerns, and that public transport must, of course, be included as an important part of this. And when we have such national policy guidelines, it is also because they are an important basis for being able to complain about a plan if it turns out that one has not taken this into account. And that's what happened in this case, where the county council is now going to look at the complaint. We have also asked to be continuously informed about the assessments that come to it. When it comes to the issue of legislating national policies, it is difficult to balance it, because it is important not to impose too many laws on municipalities by the state. I believe that the spatial processes we now have, where national policy guidelines can be the basis for complaints, are the best way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2196	I agree with the Council of State that this is a difficult balance. But when the solutions in many municipalities, at least as I know them, are always more and more ways that grow more car traffic – in my eyes old-fashioned thoughts and old-fashioned solutions – and when these solutions are often applauded by the road office and by strong business interests, then the living conditions both for the environment and for future generations, who do not have a voice today, must be defended. I agree that there is an instrument in being able to appeal a case to general authorities, but today the intentions of the national policy guidelines are too much left to discretion. Once again, I would like to urge the Council of State to see whether there can be no legislative means of committing municipal planning authorities to a greater extent than what is being done today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2203	One of the things this government has been gripping with is looking at the amount of legislation and regulations from the state towards the municipalities. Among other things, I have I have to be the first to confess that it will be written in a book! We have actually done this without the adoption of a single new order after the government change. And it shows that we have very many statutory guidelines from the state. I think it is important that we have today a complaint process to defend the national policy guidelines. I think it creates commitment, and I think it contributes to the fact that environmental protection isn't just something that's in Oslo, is concerned about. And so I think it's a better process than legalizing them. I would also like to stress that the work done on an overall transport plan in the Ministry of Transport, where we will see the railway plan, road plan, port plan and collective development in the context, could also be an important means of achieving this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2213	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: ‘Do the Council of State consider that DN’s proposal for so-called ‘wolf zones’ as a management principle, in particular Hedmark, is in line with the ‘roar’ message?’ [[Directorate for Nature Management]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2220	The 1997 report on drugs and the treatment of this drug by the Stortinge attracts a two-sided objective. We are to ensure both viable populations of predatory game and active farming with the exploitation of grazing resources in the sheep and domestic land. Experience so far has shown that the implementation of predatory policies requires coordinated efforts by agricultural and environmental protection authorities. I also emphasise that administrative measures should be developed and implemented in close cooperation with municipalities and other stakeholders. During the examination of the notification of wild game, the majority of the Committee decided on the objective of establishing the reproduction of wolves in Norway. The Committee further stated that Norwegian and Swedish Governing Authorities have a common objective of establishing at least eight-ten family groups in South Scandinavia. This means strict protection of the wolf. Experience with the Koppang cold has shown that wolves in areas with high grazing density will require disproportionately high costs of preventive measures. The increase in the number and prevalence of wolves shows that, like the other predatory species, this species should be managed through land-zoning. This means that the demarcation must be reserved for bufe and tamrein in large parts of the country, while in some areas the wolf must still have the strict protection of the day. In areas with strict protection of wolves and high densities of grazing, it is necessary to stimulate preventive measures, to change the operating arrangements for sheep or to convert to other productions. For Hedmark, this could partly coincide with the habitat of bear and gloupe, where conversion is already a current solution. Thus, a liberal administration can be opened outside areas where the wolf is given a strict protection. Our management strategy for the wolf is an attempt to balance the different considerations of the predatory game management in such a way that the damage potential in relation to the bufe and tamrein is as low as possible, while achieving the stocking targets for the wolf. The Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture are now in the process of evaluating the effects of predatory game management and prevention measures to date. There is a further record of the wolf population as a basis for management. In this context, the Directorate for the Proposals of Nature Management will be further considered. In the light of the ongoing evaluation, I, together with the Minister of Agriculture and in close cooperation with interested parties, will seek solutions to minimise the damage to buff and domestic industry.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2237	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I am not satisfied with it. I did not get an answer to what I asked for, and I have to ask that the Council of State elaborate some of the points of view. I understood the Council of State so that she actually supports what the Directorate of Nature Management has called for, namely, wolf zones. All I have to do is clarify it. I do not think it is in line with the report on predatory game that the Stortinget has dealt with, because the Stortinget has not said that one should either have predators or agriculture, for example. sheep, as the directorate now suggests. The Council of State underlined the importance of prevention measures. I agree with that, and we have to use a lot of tools, especially to bear, gloat and yerv. However, it could be interesting to hear what preventive measures the Council of State believes can be used against wolves.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2244	I think Sylvia Brustad and I at least agree on one thing, namely that this is a debate without the simple answers. That's because the report on predatory game, to which the Storting has joined, obliges us to combine two seemingly conflicting considerations: that we have to have viable populations of the large predators while we are going to exploit the environmentally friendly form of farming that the outcrop for sheep and pure is. I cannot therefore answer a simple yes or no to the question whether I support DN's proposal. The reason for this is that we now have a broad review based on the experience of the previous grazing season and the evaluation of the entire predatory game policy and how it works, in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture. That assessment will also include the proposals of the Directorate for Nature Management. I have also stressed that this should be an evaluation of the prevention measures we have had, including: to look at their transfer value and who works well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2251	When Stortinget dealt with the predatory message, it was a deliberate choice that a created core area for, among other things, bear and yerv, but it was also an equally conscious choice that an unestablished core area for wolf. When the Council of State says that this species – that is, the wolf – “like the other predatory species should be managed by land zoning”, I see it as meaning that the Council of State agrees with DN that there should be zones for wolves. I do not think that is in line with what the Stortinget has decided. I then have to ask if the Government and the Government intend to come back with a matter for the government, so that we have the opportunity to discuss it. For I believe, as I said, that this is not in line with what the Storting has said, and then the Government must come back with a case to the Storing if it intends to do anything other than what the Storing has actually decided.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2256	The very comprehensive letter from the Directorate of Nature Management to the Ministry of the Environment came in the middle of last week. We are in the process of evaluating it, and will, as I said, include it in a larger evaluation that we are doing together with the Ministry of Agriculture. In addition, there is now extensive snow tracking, not least in Hedmark, where thousands of volunteers actually participate – something I think is very important and valuable. When the government decided to increase the funding for stock registration, it was precisely to gain more secure knowledge about the size of stocks in fact, and one of the principles of wild game notification is clearly that the level of management changes as the population evolves. As the population grows, it is no longer subject to equivalent strict protection. Once we have carried out that evaluation, and if it means that we are going to propose something that might be perceived as contrary to the report, we will of course come back to Stortinget with it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2261	Case No. So 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-01-20.ana.ud2484e2270	There is no record.
