ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e36	The called alternate of the Uppland County, Gry Larsen, has taken the seat. From the representative of Morten Lund, there is an application for welfare leave from 23 February to 25 February. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Bjørg Bruset, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e61	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e66	I suggest Asmund Kristoffersen and Aud Blattmann.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e71	Asmund Kristoffersen and Aud Blattmann are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Asmund Kristoffersen and Aud Blattmann are unanimously elected as chairpersons of today’s meeting. The representative of Steinar Bastesen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e76	I have the honour on behalf of Kenneth Svendsen, Vidar Kleppe and myself to make a proposal that boat owners/fishers and fishermen who are elected to the Stortinget or are in government shall retain all their fishing rights for the time they perform their duties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e81	The representative of John I. Alvheim will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e84	On behalf of the representative Harald T. Nesvik and myself, I would like to make proposals for adjusting the standard tariff, which will enable the practitioners of contract specialists to perform day-to-day surgery within the contract department, thereby reducing and removing the waiting list.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e90	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that this morning's meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the scheduled time. 15.00 until the current map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e104	At the request of the Business Committee, the President proposes that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 35 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Centre Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Twist Party elected 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three lines with replies by the main speakers for each party group and parliamentary leaders, as well as five lines with replies by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e115	The government has in St.prp. No 1, Appendix No 6 for 1998-99, proposed to coordinate the activities of the State Agriculture Bank, the State grain business, the Turnover Council and the Freight Office for slaughter. The Government has also proposed that the grant unit of the new and coordinated activities be located outside Oslo. This grant unit is estimated to be 65 years. The market entity shall be located here in the capital. The majority of the Committee, composed of the Labour Party and the Right, has chosen a different solution from that to which the Government has submitted. The parties to the Centre support the arrangement of the Government. The Progress Party supports coordination of activities but wants the new entity to be fully located in Oslo. I assume that the two minorities themselves argue for their views, and I am therefore going to concentrate my contribution on why the Labour Party and the majority have chosen a different solution than the Government proposes in the case. The Workers' Party, together with the Right, proposes that the State Agriculture Bank be merged with the State Food and Rural Development Fund, SND. SND was established in 1993. The establishment came as a result of a merger of the District Development Fund, the Industrial Fund, the Industrial Bank and the Small Business Fund. What they wanted was to bring together the country's industrial policy instruments into one institution. The aim was to see the whole picture in the field of industrial development. Since the establishment of the SND in 1993, the State has systematically allocated new state-owned food policy instruments to SND. From 1 January 1997, the Fiskarbank became part of the SND. In the Workers' Party, one has also assessed on several occasions whether the Agricultural Bank should be integrated into the SND. When the Government now submits a case concerning a major reorganisation of the activities of the Agricultural Bank, the Government sets the agenda in relation to a reassessment of the location of the Agricultural Bank in the country’s instrument system. If one chooses to follow the scheme of the Government, a sedentary agricultural bank's seat in this system will be for many years to come. Therefore, it has been quite natural for us in the Workers' Party to consider this matter on a broader basis than what the Government has done in St. pp. No 1, Appendix No 6th@item: inlistbox And we believe that the best regional policy approach now will be to integrate the State Agricultural Bank into the SND. Time is ripe, not least because SND is now able to build a powerful district organization. SND now has district offices in all the counties of the country. SND has become a decentralised organisation, with 95 pst. of all the decisions taken in the counties. Many have claimed that the matter has taken a surprising turn. Yes Norway Bondelag has even claimed that the bulk of the population with this almost completes a coup. What surprises me is that someone is surprised that the Workers' Party and the Right are taking this position. Why, then, is it so important and proper to join the State Agriculture Bank with the SND? The future of Building Norway depends on comprehensive solutions. It is the sum of all business that will be crucial for the ability of district municipalities to retain their inhabitants. In particular, diversity, creativity, ease of establishment and transparency will be essential if a person is to make young people move back after completion of education. I believe the farmers of the future will, and should, consist of some farmers who have the farm as their only source of income. At the same time, however, farmers will operate the farm in addition to other activities, either in relation to the farm or separately from the farm. And very many farmers are good self-employed. I think we'll see a development in which the farmer's knowledge as business manager will become more important: that is, the farmer who actively owns other businesses, the farmer as a director of other businesses, the farmer who runs the farm. Future Building Norway needs to be a melting pot, where the farmer will also need contact with the Norwegian Export Council and the Norwegian Research Council. Such a future Building Norway, marked by a hope for the future, should be a public meeting with an integrated instrument – an instrument responsible for seeing business in a context, an instrument which is concerned with farm use being also important jobs, an instrument such as: may loose the IT-trained part-time farmer from the SND district office to the Norwegian Research Council. The merger of the State Agriculture Bank and the SND involves a transfer of staff from the three agricultural bank branch offices to the SND district offices. At the same time, it will involve a transfer of staff from the agricultural departments of the counties to the same district offices. Such an increase in the number of employees will help to make the SND district organisation more powerful. SND district offices shall become local power centres in the field of industrial development. Now those responsible for industrial development in District Norway are to work in the same organisation and sit in the same office community. We believe that this can give rise to important synergies. The economy has something to learn from Norwegian agriculture. Agriculture has something to learn from other businesses. Many have argued against the merger of the SND and the Agricultural Bank with views towards the special nature of the agricultural industry; agriculture is not like any other business. In relation to agriculture, close links between counselling and funding are needed, it is claimed. Yes, it is even argued that the people of the Agricultural Bank should remain in the County Agriculture Department, as this would allow better contact with the County Environmental Protection Department. The majority do not agree with this. The majority believe, on the contrary, that it will be very good for Norwegian agriculture if you remove as much as possible from the unnecessary special treatment provided by the industry. There is no need to wish for a strong link between advice and financing in Norwegian agriculture, when this link is so strongly undesirable to all other businesses. It is a healthy principle that the adviser – the consultant – should not sit down with one hand in the instruments. Evolution is on its way. Agricultural schools are currently part of the ordinary secondary school system. Veterinary high school and Agricultural high school are part of the ordinary higher education system. State agricultural offices are part of the municipal administration. Agricultural research is part of the ordinary research system. Now the agricultural bank becomes part of the SND. Such a development does not mean the removal of all special schemes for Norwegian agriculture. For the Workers' Party, it is important to stress that the integration of the Agricultural Bank into the SND does not mean that the schemes currently available through the Agricultural Bank are to be phased out. Today, SND receives appropriations from three different departments: the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade and the Ministry of Fisheries. At the same time, SND receives clear policy signals from these departments and from the Stortinget. When the Bank of Agriculture becomes part of the SND, SND will also receive financial resources from the Ministry of Agriculture's budget. Of course, it will be accompanied by clear political governance signals. The Norwegian State's efforts to ensure the multifunctional role of agriculture will now be visible from the Ministry of Agriculture's budget. The majority have made it clear in their comments that they are in favour of the closure of the State Agricultural Bank as their own institution and that the economic instruments available to the bank today relating to new industries and loans and subsidies to traditional agriculture are transferred to SND. The majority have underlined that this is also true of the structural development funds. At the same time, the majority point out that the Agricultural Bank also carries out tasks that it is not natural to transfer to SND. In further work on the matter, the Government has to discuss which tasks should be transferred to the SND. However, I would like to stress that the majority does not want the Ministry to provide a minimum solution, where the further work is influenced by the idea of transferring the least possible of the Agricultural Bank to the SND. The absence of transfer of tasks must be specifically justified. Of course, the Workers' Party is aware that the rural development funds are part of the agricultural agreement between the State, the Norwegian Bondelag and the Norwegian Bonde and Small Farmers' Teams. For us, it is important to stress that we believe that this is how it should proceed. The annual framework for rural development funds and the distribution of investments into traditional agriculture and new industries shall continue to be negotiated. Furthermore, we believe that organisations should continue to have the same right to participate in the governance that decides on the use of rural development funds. The specific profile of the building development funds, with a prioritisation of small scale activities and women-settled actions, shall be maintained. The integration of the Agricultural Bank into the SND will also be a significant challenge for SND. SND will also have to change when new instruments become part of the SND portfolio. This I think SND will meet in a positive way. Not least, I believe that it is natural for SND to review its decision-making mandates for the local government, which will make it easier to adapt the allocation system of the SND to the system currently available in relation to the rural development funds. From many quarters, the Labour Party has met with strong criticism that we want to integrate the State Agricultural Bank into the SND. Not least, many have been disappointed that this puts an end to the Government's desire to move out 65 state jobs. It has been claimed that the Workers' Party is pursuing a purely obstructive policy. It has by no means been the starting point of the Workers' Party. We have taken our position on the basis of an assessment of what we think would be best for Norwegian agricultural policy, industrial policy and rural policy in the future. We believe that all overall assessments speak for our solution. The Labour Party and the Right have a total majority for this view. This policy cannot then be allowed to be implemented because it appears to prevent the relocation of 65 jobs. The Workers' Party is not in principle opposed to the relocation of State jobs. The working party has opposed the government position itself as drivers of a number of relocation projects. But this time we've chosen another solution. And the solution we have chosen also involves possibilities for the relocation of state jobs. As I have said, SND today has a very decentralised organization. In its observations, the majority allows for an assessment of whether SND is able, in the context of the integration of the State Agricultural Bank, to outsource some of its overall functions to its offices in the counties. Here the government gets quite free ropes in its further work. And from my point of view, it would be very interesting if you could come up with solutions like this. means that SND head office functions can be located outside Oslo. As I have said many times in this post: The future of Building Norway depends on comprehensive solutions. My impression is that it's entirely local. Now the state must meet this local whole with a comprehensive tool system. It will be when the SND construction works are completed with this treatment in Stortinget. That's good for Building Norway. The Labour Party believes that this is good for Norwegian agriculture and that it is good for Norwegian district policy. I would recommend the Committee's recommendation, which involves a decision on the principle of aggregation of the Agricultural Bank and the SND. It also implies that the Council of Turnover, the State grain business and the freight agency for slaughter, which I have little affected in this post, are coordinated into one activity, but located here in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e161	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e164	Then we'll even get a distortion from the Workers' Party. The farmers and the municipalities are now getting a number of agencies to stick to, a distortion, as usual with the Workers' Party. Building development funds are now to be administered by SND, and the county will still have the other agricultural policy instruments – i.e. two addresses. As far as I know, there's not a single voice out there that supports the Workers' Party's proposal. Users have been lost. Folks and women are head-to-head. SND "touch their hands" and say they didn't ask for this. Is the Labour Party a little worried that they don't know the best, and better than anyone involved? So one more thing. The Labour Party has used heavy fires against the Government in cases that they think are not well enough settled before the decision, for example the cash support. How can the Labour Party defend its representatives, and then the representative Hanssen no defend that a knee-drenched principle in detail, without there being any kind of distribution, impact assessment or hearing of the proposal before the decision – and against clear advice from anyone using the system?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e173	With regard to this matter, I would strongly argue that the committee does not crush all the details through the position that exists today. The Committee invites the Stortinge to participate in the project is to make a decision in principle as to whether to merge the Agricultural Bank with the SND; it is to complete a construction project that has been run and built for many years, starting in 1993 when the State Food and Rural Development Fund was established. What surprises me, as I also said in my introduction, is that this comes as a surprise to the government parties. There has been a line in the Labour Party's policy since the establishment of the SND that the Fiskarbank should first be integrated, and then, once the time was ripe, the Agricultural Bank should also be added to the SND. But then, when that principle is established by the majority of the committee, the majority says that one is very open to assessments and discussions of how much of the State Agricultural Bank has to be transferred. It is very open to look at how to build up the management systems in a way that will enable the decision-making authority of the organisations today to be passed on. You're very open to how to do this in practice, for example. in the counties where the SND District Office and the County Agriculture Department are not located in the same place. In the field of regional policy, the government is asked to conduct discussions, to conduct consultations, and then to return to the Grand Duchy, so that we can find sensible and practical solutions to the convergence that we have agreed on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e180	In the vote, the majority, including the Workers' Party, said that with the Government's proposal, one would bind up the structure of the agricultural administration for many years – it was strengthened by the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen who spoke of ‘cementing’ and said that the Workers' Party wanted to ‘assess this matter on a broader basis’. I think that's acceptable. On the other hand, the conclusion I feel is coming before the process. In the interests of those concerned, investigations, hearings, etc. would be better. was completed before a conclusion was reached. It kind of has a little to do with respect for them that this will have consequences for. Would not the Workers' Party be able to consider the proposal that SV is going to make here today, to send the case back to get a whole process before drawing the final conclusion, in view of the fact that those who are going to participate in this process should feel that they are being heard, too, before making this little revolution? One thing is to cement, something else is to revolutionize what you want to change, without in a way being involved in the process that this concerns. Is the Workers' Party going to consider what the proposal SV is promoting here, which is distributed in places, and which we are going to deal with later?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e189	Yes, now it is not the Labour Party that has set the agenda in this case. It is the government that has put forward a case for consideration, to which we have then taken a position – and we cannot fail to take a position when the matter has been brought before us. So to the question – can you not show greatness here and send the matter back to the Government and get it out for consultation, in order to show some generosity to all those who are affected on the occasion of the case? But what is a consultation round? If it were the case that the Workers' Party actually had doubts as to whether the Farmers' Bank should be closed with the SND, it would be timely to send the matter out to the hearing. But when the Workers' Party has taken the clear position on a principle basis that it is now time to beat the Agricultural Bank with the SND, it would be in my opinion to throw blues in people's eyes if you then carry out a leather maneuver by saying: we can always send the matter out to the hearing, so that there will be calm and people will be able to express themselves in a way, but we have taken our position! Then I think the course that is now being laid out by the majority is more pure-haired, where it is said that in principle one has a clear view of this matter: the agricultural bank should and should be integrated into the SND. It will raise a number of practical issues, where there are many different solutions. We're going to have to realize that, so we're going to pick out the reasonable answers to all of the little questions that are going to be raised. There we are very busy getting recordings and getting hearing statements. But our position on aggregation is firm, and then it must be pure-haired that the majority that is actually in this Chamber for such a position is expressed at voting today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e196	It's a rather eye-catching argument taken from the Workers' Party. It is said that the Labour Party has not set the agenda for this debate. It almost sounds as if the Workers' Party will not acknowledge that it wants to wind up the Agricultural Bank and put it into the SND, but that it is the responsibility of the Government, because the Government has put forward a completely different proposal than the Workers' Party is now taking part in the vote. So if the case rapporteur says that the only thing you can achieve in sending the case back for a closer investigation is to show generosity to the parties involved. Yes, if it is the Workers' Party's opinion that getting a thorough investigation is to show generosity to the employees who are being affected, and to agreements concluded between organisations and the state, I must honestly say that I have difficulties in understanding the Workers' Party's way of implementing political decisions. It is not long since the Government made a proposal to the Stortinget to change the system of freight subsidies on petrol to become a self-financing scheme. It was presented in an odelstingsproposition before Christmas. Then the Workers' Party found it timely to send the proposal back for further investigation because there were some petrol companies who had protested against it because it would be too complicated to implement in practice. It was therefore good enough for the Workers' Party to send a case back and get it further assessed by the Government if it was possible. However, implementing a major change in the financing system vis-à-vis agriculture, where the agricultural bank is liquidated and added to the SND, which affects workers and contract partners, is not a matter for which the Workers' Party sees the need for further investigation, but they only say that this should be carried out, and then the Department will later find appropriate ways to carry it out and carry out the necessary investigations. I have to say it is alarming that the biggest party of the Storting is doing proceedings in this way, and I have problems seeing that this will form a pattern for future proceedings in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e205	It is not surprising, after observing the Central Party in the government position, that there are parties that take a political stance that cannot actually be changed through consultation processes. There is more of a line in this government's policy that we now see, that a case is presented, and then the process that will determine where the matter finally ends in Stortinget. Here is the situation that the Workers' Party has a position on this matter, and the Right has a position on this matter. I understand that the government parties are becoming a little uncertain about what is now happening in the staging room. In my opinion, it is alarming that the Government has not in any way contacted the opposition in such a large and important matter before it submits this proposition. And if you're not interested in having contact and getting your point of view back at all, you might sometimes be surprised at the conclusion that's being drawn. But when we have received the matter from the Government for consideration, it is clear that the Government has set the agenda in Stortinget regarding the future of the State Agriculture Bank, and then the Workers' Party and the Right have a position on this matter, and it is now a voting theme in Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e218	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e222	The Party welcomes the coordination of the State Agriculture Bank, the State grain business, the Turnover Council and the Shipping Office for Slaughter, among others. because it will result in more rational and efficient use of resources. We are of the opinion that option 1 with the coordination of market and grant management of one Oslo institution will best take this into account. This means that we disagree with the Government, which wants the partial relocation of agricultural policy units by option 3. In this respect, I would like to refer to the conclusion of the State Consultant, which, in a report, states that a coordinated entity is the clear best solution, while dissuading a shared solution. Statskonsult has further concluded that the institution can be located outside Oslo. The transition costs of coordination to a single Eastern city are estimated at two-digit million, while operations are claimed to be less costly than the operation of the base option. The Progress Party believes that the estimated costs of any relocation by the State Consultant may be significantly underestimated. It is supported by Econ's investigation into the Turnover Council. We cannot therefore defend a relocation in this order of magnitude when there is no evidence of any professional positive or economic impact of any relocation. In addition, a relocation will represent a heavy personal burden for many employees. In a note, Econ says that Statskonsult has counted too low on the transitional costs of institutions, and that there are also important accounting costs and uncalculated socio-economic costs. The Progress Party agrees with Econ's criticism and, in particular, with the criticism of the Statskonsult's conclusion that the institutions can be located outside Oslo. In Econ's note, it is said that: ‘it is difficult to see this conclusion as a sustainable statement of the economy of the relocation. If there is a requirement for a relocation to represent socio-economic efficient resource use in order to recommend relocation, a rather different decision-making basis is required. Alternatively, it should be concluded that through such investigations it is not possible to indicate to what extent relocation will improve or worsen the management of society’s resources.’» We have registered that Econ, among others. called for estimates of the socio-economic costs of a relocation. The costs of relocating employees with households, temporary unemployment for household members, time for planning and negotiation with employees and travel expenses for external actors are all elements. The level of total costs is most likely to be significant. Looking at other moving matters and the experience of the relocation of the Polar Institute to Tromsø, there is reason to fear the worst. The Ministry of the Environment estimated transitional costs of 10-15 million. NOK 40 million, including waiting wages. Therefore, there is a basis for claiming that the costs of removal are uncertain but may become large. We will also draw attention to the consultation note from the Sales Council, which points out that relocation from the Oslo area could mean a loss of much competence by the employees choosing to find other jobs. Recruitment of new competences may incur considerable costs. It is claimed that State Consultant has carried out a significant under-assessment of the problems as a possible loss of 95 pst. of the acquired competence of the employees. The Sales Council also considers the fact that at least 250 meetings are held with institutions in Oslo, a contact that cannot be maintained in the same way when moving. And I agree with the Sales Council on this. What we are left with in this case as an argument for assessing a relocation is of a district policy nature. In line with the Adult Declaration, the Government will propose a decentralisation of State activities. It deals with decisions of symbolic value far beyond the factual and professional realities. These are established deep-root establishments in the Oslo area which are forced out of some kind of misunderstood district development. The Progress Party believes it is not good district policy to build up existing businesses one place to build them up another. The relocation of the grant unit by option 3 will also not render the institution more efficient and rational than its location in Oslo. Nor should we forget that the employees of the four institutions have been strongly opposed to relocation. Breaking up environments that could involve forced movement of families and the other spouse losing his or her job is serious. It is so serious that many people can choose to give up good, safe and not least interesting jobs for the sake of the family. As a result, the business may also be weakened. Such movement of existing establishments at one's will and with a risk of professional depopulation must be justified with absolute necessity. In this case, it is not necessary, but rather unfortunate, as the Progress Party sees it. There are many people working today in the institutions concerned, there are people of flesh and blood, with emotions, with families and with connection to the areas where they are born and raised and have lived for a long time. My principal starting point when something is to be moved, especially if it is to be done by force, is that there must be a lot, very good reason for it. And I cannot see that it is available in this case – on the contrary. I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party, which is referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e253	Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e258	I record that the Progress Party links most of the arguments for its position on this matter to the issue of relocation. It is said that there are neither professional nor economic gains on relocation, and Øystein Hedstrøm now says in his post that there is a great deal of personal stress, and that when you look at past relocations, for example. by the Polar Institute, there is reason to fear the worst. Examples of private enterprises that have moved out are available. A company moved a fairly large department from Oslo to my home municipality. They claim that they have gained access to better skills and more stable labour through emigration, and they claim themselves that they save about. NOK 100000 per year, mainly because of lower rental costs in District Norway than in Oslo. So it's private companies that, on a purely commercial basis, find it profitable to move out. In any case, it should be possible for the Progress Party to assess this matter in a slightly different way. But that's not what was the background for me wanting to take a line. Øystein Hedstrom shows a rather strong concern for those who work in these institutions and who may be affected by a relocation. I think that's positive. We're all going to show that concern. In this decade, we have seen a sustained flow of shifting of state jobs from District Norway to Oslo. We have seen within a number of state enterprises, within a large part of the government, that jobs have been centralised and moved to Oslo, and workers have had to move. My question then is: is it possible to perceive the Progress Party and Øystein Hedstrom so that in the future you will show the same care in moving work tasks from District Norway and to Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e269	Interestingly, the Center Party's Odd Roger Enoxsen, as a small businessman in District Norway, says that there is also a stream, perhaps a small stream, of small businesses moving to the districts, and that there are industry leaders who want to establish themselves in the districts. This shows that this is a difference. A market librarian like me believes that it is the companies themselves who are going to decide where it is attractive to start business, expand business and get jobs, and not, in this situation, that politicians and bureaucrats are going to decide what to do, and are going to control developments. This is the big, fundamental difference. And that will also apply to the other way. Business leaders in the district of Norway may want to establish themselves in the central part of the country, and if the option is perhaps bankruptcy and closure, it must be much better for the value creation in Norway that businesses deliver on, only within their borders. And I'd like to say in the end, for the time being, that the district policy that has been pursued in Norway after the war, where we inject 30-40 billion kroner into different instruments for the districts, has resulted in the largest population movement we've had from the districts to the central districts. What Enoxen is in favour of here, option 3, and which supports the Government, just means a continuation of this failed district policy, from which we must get away as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e276	In fact, workers in a private enterprise on their own initiative move from Oslo to Andøya because they think it is more reasonable for the company. Nor is it the case that workers in a company move from a district municipality to Oslo because they want to live in Oslo. It is such that it is the management and owners of these companies who have to make a decision as to where the enterprise should be located. It is the management and the owners who have to make a decision that a department should be moved from Oslo or into Oslo. In this case, it is actually politicians and bureaucrats, to which Øystein Hedstrom refers, who are leaders of the State Agricultural Bank and of the agricultural administration. Øystein Hedstrøm has, in this context, a management responsibility, in the same way as a manager of a private enterprise, to make a decision on where Øystein Hedstrøm wants to locate its activities. That responsibility cannot escape Øystein Hedstrom in this context. The decision shall not be taken by the employees of the State Agricultural Bank. Øystein Hedstrøm has not answered my question. That was short and good: will the Progress Party show the same care and commitment in the future in moving state labour from District Norway to Oslo, which is an equal burden for the workers concerned in the context of their relocation from Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e285	The Progress Party represents a completely different regional and industrial policy from most other parties in this Chamber. What is paradoxical is that Norway is a very rich country. We have huge natural resources, but because the politicians are shoving away these values, we're getting very little left for it. When it comes to caring for employees, we want a general care for low taxes and less public intervention, so that people can keep their jobs throughout the country on a market basis. If we're always going to control and care for this, and there's going to be negative numbers in the economy of the individual enterprise, it doesn't serve the employees. Because that means that a lot of these companies may have to lay down and the employees become unemployed. It is equally searchful whether you live in Finnmark or you live in Oslo, because it is no objective truth that a job in Finnmark is worth more than a job in Oslo. There are also economic criteria together with respect to the employees on the basis of which this is to be co-located in Oslo. It is a expressed wish of the employees of all four institutions, and it is in line with the Economic Policy of the Progress Party for the optimal management of resources. There we are supported by State Consultant, Econ and others who have gone in and calculated this. So it's not just the Progress Party that's behind it, but a broad, massive majority of those involved in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e292	It would have been interesting to have a district policy debate with the Progress Party with the starting point we have here now. It seems that there are reduced taxes and taxes that are the means to make people live in District Norway, make businesses and businesses stay there. But is it that the Progress Party sees Norway as geographically similar, having the same costs, for example. in the case of cargo, as regards the need for ferries, transport, etc.? And is it the case that the tax policy of the Progress Party is differentiated so that it will take account of the additional expenditure that one has in District Norway in such circumstances as I have now mentioned and which is absolutely necessary in an active district policy to counteract the relocation that is taking place? Is it also the case that the Progress Party will not use the possibility of maintaining residence in District Norway through public and state jobs? It's okay that we get short on the framework conditions for private business, and private companies find that it's better to move to central areas. But in the case of public jobs, we have an opportunity to be involved and influence this. But I believe that the Progress Party is not willing to take part in the regional policy context through the management of public jobs either.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e299	The Progress Party believes, as we have also said in our remarks, and as I said in my main post, that there must be a very strong reason to move state institutions out to the districts. That the central government in the Adult Declaration has it as an explicit goal, gets to be. But for the Progress Party, this is quite peripheral. If we are to turn away from the districts, I think it must be a completely different approach, a completely different approach to the districts and a completely different policy. In terms of instruments, and what was said here: the party initially wants to use all the selective instruments, whether in the case of BU funds, the State Food and Rural Development Fund or other instruments, and to reduce taxes and charges in general. If a company in District Norway almost doesn't have a tax, the values will be left in the districts. After all, there must be a good starting point for further development of business there. We look at the farming industry as an example. It manages today with the tools it has, but with the policies of the Progress Party, there would be far better opportunities, for example. for the value-creating breeding industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e306	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e309	In this proposition, the size is invited to decide on the main model for the organisation of the key economic instruments of agricultural policy. At the same time, the ministry announces that one aims to return to a concrete location by moving everything out in our home. The purpose of such reorganisation is to create a more streamlined and efficient management and an efficient instrumentation. All organisations and levels will need to have such a review at certain intervals. A sound agricultural policy requires an effective apparatus throughout the country. This model outlined in the proposal could become the hub necessary to be able to carry out at any time the tools that the Storting will come up with with the parties to the agreement. In our view, it is very important in this context to be able to take care of the skills currently available in the counties' agricultural departments around all the counties. This is what we are sure of after the Government's arrangement. I have noticed that the majority agree that it is right to coordinate the management of agricultural policy instruments and that such coordination will provide cost-effective operations. However, based on this recognition, the conclusion of placing the device for drug use under the SND system becomes strange. The plural indicates in its note that they support the Government's intention to move out of state workplaces. On this basis, it is very special to go against a concrete proposal to delocalise approximately. 65 state jobs. The Declaration of Adults states that the Government will propose to move out state jobs. This process could start now, and we in the Christian People's Party see this as a start on a series of relocations involving interesting, demanding jobs. When it comes to locating such an institution like this, it would be natural to add it to an area where agriculture has a lot to say. Norway is now at a stage where new WTO negotiations are being organised. In this context, it is essential that natural complementary industries for agriculture, such as garden tourism, smelting, small scale energy production or crafts, are continued. In order to build up under such a development, there must be an advisory apparatus that has experience and competence in this with small-scale bets — or we should call it multifunctional agriculture. After a rather difficult start, the BU resources have gradually been used to produce results in long-term jobs. The evaluations that have been carried out show that those who have had the best professional follow-up have created the most permanent jobs. It is worth noting that building development funds are part of negotiated resources between the country and agriculture. Among other things, it would be wrong to add the management of these funds to the SND system. The consequences of this have not been assessed. This is why it becomes very special when the Labour Party is doing this now, after criticising the Government in other areas for lack of consistency. In the case of an incursion, the joint proposal from the Left, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party is not in the setting, but is in the seats of the representatives. I'll take it up with it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e332	Modulf Auggan has mentioned the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e338	Both the contributions of Modulf Augan and the replies of representatives of the government parties so far indicate to a great extent that government parties also find that the majority position actually seems to be very good. The focus today is on the fact that the case has not been sufficient for organisational consultation, and reference is made to the human resources problems, etc. I think that's an interesting development, because after the break in reading the majority position, you've probably found that you're not removing a single agricultural policy instrument, you're retaining the competence that's present today, and you find that the majority position is set to strengthen the agricultural policy competence. It's probably also discovered that we get a more decentralised unit, which will be of strength to the users. My question to the representative, Mr Auchan, is this also true: does he not see that it is better for users to spread the activities of the agricultural bank in the 19 counties – near the users – than to assemble this unit in one place or another in Norway? Does not the representative of the Christian People’s Party also see that in sum this gives a better decentralizing effect? Finally, there is a lot of talk already being said in the debate. From a representative it is referred to that the inaugural meeting is less out in District Norway than it is in central Norway. It's one of the most subtle statements I've heard so far. But we're not done yet.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e345	Yeah, it looks like the main theme today is the BU and BU funds. As you know, the BU resources are part of the agricultural agreement. The BU funds represent approx. NOK 12000 per year. use. It will be very special to transfer the treatment of these funds to SND, which does not have the culture and competence that one now has for several years worked to manage these funds. We need to be aware of what the BU resources will lead to. The BU resources shall compensate for the decline in agricultural jobs. It is agriculture's means of compensating for rationalisation and for reducing the need for manual labour. The fact that BU funds are the first-line service to help projects get started is important. Difor is the wholeness so important. Agriculture, other industries and additional industries must be considered as a unit. This has now begun to work. So it's so sad that a now tear up this system and go over to a completely different regime, to say it like that. I mean, the system that is now has to have the time that has gone from 1992, when it started, to now, to incorporate itself. It was now this was going to start giving results, and so it's so bad that a now tear it up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e357	The Declaration of Adults states that ‘the State must take the lead in decentralising its activities’. In a statement in Oppland Arbeiderblad on 2 May 1998, Minister of State Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad said the following: ‘The government will generally base itself on the principle that new state tasks should be located outside Oslo, and preferably in the districts. Derogations from this principle shall be justified separately.’;» The case we are dealing with today is not about new, but about established institutions that are mainly established in Oslo. Despite the contribution made by the representative, Modulf Auchan, I cannot find that there are any factual or professional arguments for relocating according to the government's alternative. On the contrary, this means large exclusions and lower efficiency and appropriateness than by co-location of the four institutions. And it conflicts with the objectives of institutions and employees. So my question to the supplement is: what is the real reason in this case, when it's not about new but established institutions, and what arguments are there that are strong enough to overshadow an effective co-location in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e369	We actually mean that the relocation that now has our main theme, is actually good resource use, and I can show you many effective relocations and conscious choices for establishment in the districts. I can mention the move of, among other things. Norwegian Typing, which in its time was a great struggle, but which has worked very well. When it comes to Brønnøsundregistra, there was great resistance to establishing them in Brønnøysund, but it works very well, and so we can frame up several things that work well in the districts. What was mentioned here before, that one achieves stable labour, I think is very important. And I think that when a person in the Adult Declaration says offensively that a person wants to move out some government businesses, it's not just words. It means a real one, and one thinks that Norway will have the effect of it in total, because we know that the pressure in the central strata costs society a lot. The fact that a certain distribution of such government jobs would be good national policies. And with the potential for data and communication that you have today, it's not a technical problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e376	The increase is concerned about this with the right to negotiate, and that is a central point in everything. I then refer to my main point, where I explained that the majority is aware that the BU funds remain part of the agricultural agreement, that it is still necessary to be able to negotiate the size of the appropriations, that we should continue to be able to negotiate the distribution between investments in traditional agriculture and new industries, and that we should continue to have it so that organisations have the same decision-making power in the new system as in today's system. The profile of the BU funds, the device present on the BU funds, i.e. the entire scheme, shall remain as at present. What is to be amended is the country's application and payment system. Does Akhan believe that the Bondelag and Norwegian Bonde and Small User Teams actually have the right to negotiate how the State wants to organise its system for receiving applications, to process them, to see them in context and then to pay them – after they have been through governance where the organisations have the same decision-making authority as they do today? Is it a right of negotiation that Norway's Bondelag and Norwegian Bonde and Small Farmers' Teams have in the opinion of the Aukans and Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e383	I was left with some questions after listening to Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. Why should a change in something that works well? Are you sure you want to improve a new system using the template proposed by the Workers' Party and the Right here? That must be the real question. I didn't think it was likely in this process so far. It's going to be a little bit special. In a note, the Labour Party says that one in the State budget lays the framework for BU funds. But at the same time, we know that the size of this framework is a result of negotiations. In connection with the agricultural agreements, one negotiates up to the size of the BU funds. I didn't think this whole thing was going on. The fact that the industry with the two organizations is involved in influencing the arrangements of these funds, I thought I was good, and I understand that one still wants to. We have to hold on to that. But I'm not overconfident that such a new organization will be better than the one we have today. On the contrary, I'm afraid to tear up the system that has only begun to function properly, and then have to start completely from scratch again. I thought that was wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e390	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e393	As the rapporteur has explained, the Right Party and the Labour Party are united in this matter. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has had a solid review of the facts in this case, which is fully comprehensive for that also stands for the Right. There have been some interesting line exchanges here today, and it's always interesting to listen to Hedstrom when he has his introductions to the primacy of business liberalism. You can share many of those points of view, but quite incidentally, I came up with an ongoing case concerning IT fornebu, without going further into it now. The representative of the Christian People's Party refers to the Declaration of Adults. I feel to a very great extent that the Government's position on this matter is influenced by the need to meet a wording in the Adult Declaration. Yes, I have recorded that the Government itself largely defines its own success in relation to the extent to which it is possible to comply with the wording of the Adult Declaration. As time goes by and it gets more distant in time, I think it'll be an advantage if you put away some of the absolute formulations also in the Grown-up Declaration. We've been accused of operating obstruction. Let me say it this way: It's not the Right Task to Keep Living in the Government. It's not our job to kill the Government either. We take a stand on the individual matter that is presented to us. But I feel that the Government's position on this matter has been largely guided by some of the formulations that were made while you were gathered at the Adult Inn. Now it's like there's nothing wrong in it isolated, but as I said, everything in a way. The increase referred to previously successful outsourcing of State workplaces. He referred, among other things: to Norwegian Typing. I would like to remind you of the great difference there is between other emigrations that have occurred, and what this matter is about. After all, Norwegian Tipping has all the commissioners around almost all the municipalities. We have an SND device across the country that can handle these things. The government's proposal means that 65 jobs are to be located somewhere, and as far as I am aware, it is implicitly decided in the Trondelag that this should be done. I record that the government parties in a note say that at least there must be a place where agriculture is significant. But I have also recorded that other stanchions than the Minister of Agriculture have tried to double-sell this to no small extent by suggesting other possibilities. This possible double game will be as far as I can see, put in place with the comment I've referred to here. Our proposal, in my opinion, involves a much greater degree of possibility for real delegation and outsourcing of practical tasks to the districts. Yes, I would say that it would surprise me a lot if not the Government, when it comes back with this case to the Stortinget, have recommendations that might in sum mean that more than 65 jobs can be placed in the districts in the long term, and then by a first and foremost delegating decision-making authority to the competent environments we have around in the whole country. For the Right, there has not been a governing position in this matter as to what is in any statements, but what must be said to be the most effective and forward-looking way of organizing this. The most important thing, however, is to look at whether the users, that is, the farmers, are served by the scheme we are proposing and that will be adopted today. At my discretion, it is more than raised beyond doubt that so is the case. I think the case rapporteur has explained that in a straightforward way. The majority of people today tend to generalise agriculture as an industry among other industries. The special treatment – and I would say the poor-making – for which the government parties often call for – cannot serve this industry in the long run. Who wants to be recruited for an industry where it's still like a poor settlement that's the most important thing to bring to the square? The fact that we are now bringing together all of the country's instruments of nutrition under one umbrella is a development that I believe will also serve the agricultural industry in the long run. The time for this special treatment should be over, and it should be in everyone's interest that it is over. And it's an indisputable fact that SND and the county's agricultural department have a lot of instruments that have a lot of points of contact. It is very often found that BU funds are to be used in combination with industry — agriculture. An example of this is tourism, where there has been a non-negligible commitment from both the SND and the BU funds. Why not then strive more to see this in a context? However, I have a great deal of understanding that some organisations will keep the big bureaucracy in the County Agriculture Department for themselves and will not risk sharing it with the rest of the business. I have to remind you that there are just under 1000 people working in the agricultural departments of the counties in this country. I myself have done some research on how many people work with the county workers, and the size of the local staff at SND. And when it's true that in some counties 10-15 people work at the county office with nutritional measures in relation to agriculture, while in the same county there are two-three working with the rest of the business, then at least there's something in the interrelationship that I think it's time to look at. I am not blaming neither statesmen nor case handlers of statesmen, but at this assembly, which has accepted that so many complex arrangements for agriculture can justify as vast administrative resources as de facto are the case. With the change that we're now making, there's going to be a staff transfer that will be very healthy in the long term. And in the long run, I'm not in doubt that it will give a profit for not least the free, the imaginative, independent farmer in this country. There have been many strange arguments in this case in the rounds we have had, and when you say you have not had a hearing, at least that is not right. I would say that one of the most – yes, I would call it – special arguments was given to me at one of these hearings: there was a need to keep this department in the county so that you could have the interaction with the county environmental protection department that you had had until now. Yes, it has been almost a condition for developing in rural areas to have this interrelationship. And after 10-15 years in local government, I get it very well. It is almost impossible to achieve rural development without the inclusion of the County Environmental Protection Department. But why should we give an industry a advantage by sitting around the same coffee table? This need also has Norwegian industry as a whole. Now to see the problem that environmental protection departments may be in many states for the overall development of industry, I think may be a side-effect of this case, which may have a price and a value far greater than what we are currently seeing. This shows just what bureaucracy we have created, but it has created huge problems in rural areas. Instead, let's clean up this bureaucracy that we've wrapped up in, and in the next round, eliminate some of the details that work so intensely and zealously. But the responsibility for this lies with us, not with the bureaucrats. So back to what has to do with the trial, and as there have been several lines here, not least now from the committee leader, that is, to blame each other back and forth for wanting to get the trial/want not to be investigated. This I think is well distributed. It's kind of dependent on where you're sitting, whether you're in opposition or in government, and it's from case to case just like that. With regard to how agricultural bureaucracy and everything related to it should be organised, I believe that there are tons of documents showing what they think in all directions in this area. And when you refer to the procedure, it's short and good because you might have a few arguments against an otherwise reasonable and forward-looking position that the majority is calling for. I will already inform you that the Right will not support proposals for the postponement of a case that is so overdue that a weak breeze will cause the apple to fall down.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e429	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e432	One should not blame Right to push right policies. I guess the right-hand side will tend to upset Norwegian agriculture, as well as now. But I wonder if the Right has an overview of what they're into, because the Right is traditional for business start-ups and innovation, and the BU funds have led to countless small and new businesses with one or a few more added links to traditional gardening. I would like to make the representative Gabrielsen aware of the monastic corporate competence with the capacity for innovation and innovation that exists in our agriculture. It's not necessarily a big business, but a survivor and the owner makes money, and the operation of the garden continues with this additional income. You will be created in District Norway. When the BU funds now disappear into the SND, the competence and needs of agriculture will be reflected in the background of other activities. Do you really think Right, after the very positive evaluations of BU resources, that the time has come to weaken the use of these targeted funds? Why does Right change "a win team"?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e440	It is completely incomprehensible to me that it is possible to stand on this platform and say that there are clearly positive effects of these BU funds. Now I visited one county office and was given proof of how many kroner you had spent in four years, how many jobs it had been and what it had cost per. employment. It would have been approx. 50 jobs created per job years in the county. When I asked how many people had been created despite the BU funds, I did not get an answer, but let's say that half has arrived because they had BU funds. You have about the same office. 15 jobs that work in the field of industrial development, and have thus provided 25 jobs! Then the ratio is about 1:1. It is quite incomprehensible to me that the agricultural industries will use so much of the agricultural package as a whole precisely on these BU funds. I am really quite shocked at what I see, even in my own community, of what is being allocated BU funds in competition with very ordinary business start-ups. There are people who have had four-five sheep walking, but who perhaps four-five years ago have ended up with them, who get millions of loans to establish tourism, while others get a cold shoulder from a understaffed SND office that has no funds. It's time we started to see this in context and not use one eye when we look at one thing, and the other eye when we look at the next.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e447	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e450	The government suggests through St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 6 for 1998-99 changes in the management of agricultural policy instruments that will provide more effective and comprehensive management of agricultural policy. At the same time, the Government is promoting another proposal, which, in my view, is important, namely the relocation of state jobs. The undersigned addressed the latter part of this in the final part of the debate in the summer of 1997. I am pleased that the Government has taken this seriously, both through its decision that new state jobs should as a general rule be located outside Oslo, and that a specific justification should be given if it is not done. In addition, you can look at – among other things. in the case we have to deal with today – if it is possible to move out state business. I see that the Workers' Party in its press release, when it announced its view on this matter, called it moving out 65 jobs for symbol policy. It says on behalf of the Workers' Party that you have that vision, but I think the commitment of different parts of the country in this case shows that people in the districts don't really see this as symbols. I have also noticed that the Workers' Party does not say no to relocation on a principle basis, but when you call the relocation of approx. 65 jobs for symbol policy, it will be exciting to see what the Workers' Party might think to be involved. But first let me say that the relocation of state jobs is not a simple matter for some parties. It affects individuals, it affects families, and it affects the working situation of many people. I'm going to admit that this is a difficult matter, and I actually agree with Progress Partnership in one matter: moving existing jobs, whether from the districts to Oslo or from Oslo to District Norway, is not something you do without going on. Nevertheless, there is a debate that needs to be debated, both because we have got a concentration of state jobs in one area of the country, which is unfortunate, and because Oslo is gradually experiencing pressure trends that, in sum, are also unfortunate for the development of Oslo. This leads to a higher level of costs, leading to increased pollution and increased environmental problems, which require serious action to be taken in this debate. This is actually one of the few areas in which the state has the opportunity to have direct influence on development, namely the jobs for which the State itself is responsible. But as I said, I'm going to admit that there's no simple debate for anyone. Then go to the State Agricultural Bank. The pluralisation implies that the Agricultural Bank is to be liquidated in its current form and that the tasks performed by the Bank are to be transferred to the SND. For, as the Workers' Party says in the setting: ‘The majority consider it important that the agricultural industry be seen in the context of other economic activities.’ And it goes on to say: ‘In many rural communities, one sees that agriculture and other business are inextricably linked.’ This is a lot right here. The farmers are self-employed, representing a resource for Building Norway. It is true, as the case-rapporteur says in his statement, that farmers often engage in other activities related to the farm or separate from the farm as their own business. It's just that even if this is never so right, it doesn't mean that it makes sense to put down the Farm Bank and integrate the activities of the Farm Bank into the SND. The agricultural bank is not only engaged in financial activities. This is done by SND, which has no advisory or administrative tasks in relation to business but which has the task of contributing to business development through various economic instruments. So there's an important distinction here. SND manages exclusively business-oriented instruments. The agricultural bank, the BU funds and the agricultural department of the county have to meet both agricultural policy objectives and farm-oriented instruments to help achieve the agricultural policy objectives set by the authorities. It's an important distinction, which makes these functions inseparable. The financial activities cannot be distinguished from the administrative activities to achieve the agricultural policy objectives. Finally, some words about the handling of the matter. There is no one, as far as I have registered, who has expressed a positive opinion on the majority in the committee's position. On the contrary. Everyone has been unequivocally negative to both the procedure and the conclusion of the majority. No investigations have been carried out on this model. The parties to the agreement have not been contacted and have been given an opinion on this conversion, and I think, as I said in a reply earlier, that it is a very unfortunate way to deal with such a big matter. On that basis, I would like to announce support for the SV's proposal for return, which is also in line with the comments made by the centre parties.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e477	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e480	The representative, Enoxen, makes a number that moving out 65 jobs is a positive contribution, and that is of course for the place that they had to be. Had the government looked towards here, they would have said where these would be moved instead of making a war around the country to get these 65 workplaces. Maybe there's also one of the reasons why there's been some resistance to the Workers' Party and the Right's resolution proposal. But when the representative, Mr Enoksen, says that one cannot move the services of the Agricultural Bank to the SND because they are so close to the guidance service within the agricultural sector, I have to ask: is there such a difference between the Fiskarbank and the Agricultural Bank? In my view, it's not, and the Fiskarbank works from where it is now. I'm pretty sure – I believe that actually the representative of Enoxsen is inside – that the more we manage to coordinate the means of action towards business, it's agriculture, fishing or traditional industry, the better it is. But in this case, he has to find other places to stand for something that I'm sure he's inside of mine is correct, because everything is equally important in our country, whether it's agriculture or fishing, where one now has to be along the long coast. So I thought Enoch should agree that the Workers' Party and the Right's proposal is not so bad, it's just so bad that the Government didn't come up with it itself.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e487	Firstly, it might be unnecessary to remind the representative of Opseth that the centre party also opposed the winding-up of the Fiskar bank and to include it in the SND – if not on the same grounds. The Fiskerbank is more active than the Agricultural Bank and the agricultural policy instruments, and does not have the task of pursuing policy objectives, such as the agricultural policy instruments, the instruments partly added to the Agricultural Department of the State, partly via the BU funds and partly added to the Agricultural Bank. That's why I think it's unfortunate to split up these services. Agriculture has several functions to fill. We are now talking about multicultural agriculture — and the Workers' Party too — and this means that agriculture has more tasks to do than just farm-oriented ones. I have been using various public instruments for over 20 years. I have been a farmer and a user of both the Agricultural Bank's instruments and the BU funds for nearly ten years. I have established three companies and through those established over the years I have been using both the SND and the former District Development Fund services. The business start-ups took place at a time when I was a farmer, and are just an example of what Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said in his post, that farmers are self-employed who often establish other businesses. I never had trouble dealing with different institutions and different sources of funding, precisely because the difference was pretty big. The agricultural advisory service and the tasks to be carried out there were important to my farm and to those tasks, while not automatically adapting to the needs and requirements of the farms. As I said in my post, I clearly see that there are close links between agriculture and other business, but in my opinion it is not enough to coordinate these things, as the Labour Party suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e494	It has been five to six years since the Stortinget decided clearly that it was desirable to reorganise and simplify large parts of the economic instrument in financing, so this matter cannot come as a surprise to anyone. But it does so clearly in the Centre Party, and it is said that it is very unfortunate to distinguish between the administrative and financial regulations currently in force in the agricultural sector. Don't you see the bad in this kind of mixup? Does it not appear that everyone else who does business in this country often has two or more doors they have to enter when they are going to deal with their case? I think when you look forward to it, it's very important and necessary for the sake of agriculture itself to come under organizations that care and manage to distinguish between administrative and financial and credit issues. Then they say the Center Party went against the closure of the Staten Fiskarbank. Yes, but what does the Central Party today think about the situation surrounding the continued fate of the Staten Fiskarbank? In my opinion and after what I have registered, the fishing industry is very pleased with the development and that they can use the same food policy instruments as other activities after the reorganisation. It would be very interesting to know what the Central Party believes about the reorganisation that took place, if it has not been useful for the fishing industry. Is it so to understand, when you hear the representative, that there will now be an initiative from the Central Party to go back to the old system and remove the fisheries division from the SND? I think you should be careful to take all the sorrows ahead, even in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e501	At the same time as the closure of the State’s Fiskarbank, new financial arrangements were introduced for the fishing industry, which means that the fishing industry is today more equal to activities on land. It was a positive conversion that could have taken place even if the Fiskarbank had been maintained as an independent entity, and as the Center Party still believes would have been a better alternative than putting this together into one unit. Reactions outside also show that there is no exorbitant enthusiasm from the fishing industry itself over the association that took place here. Then we're asked if we want to talk about going back to the old system. First, there are limits to how many rematches you take on matters decided by the Storting. The centre party was in its time also opposed to the liquidation of the District Development Fund and the establishment of the SND. All of the appeal points that we had at the time in relation to the establishment of the SND have actually proved to be striking. In this context, the guidelines for the operation of SND have been amended in a number of areas. This does not mean that it will be possible to go back to the old system, because you have established a new system that has evolved over time and that it will be difficult to tear up. Moreover, when you know that you have a different majority in the Grand Duchy, you do not promote suggestions in time and in vain. So back to the agricultural bank's business. The problem with the majority is that there is no distinction between the financing part and the bank part of the Staten Landbrugsbank and the other tasks to be performed by the agricultural management in order to achieve agricultural policy objectives. So you don't run a bank, you don't just finance business, like SND does, where an enterprise is going to grow and become as big as possible. On the contrary, agriculture has limitations in overproduction in the vast majority of areas where there are far different tasks and requirements to be met by the agricultural policy instruments. It is one of the tasks that the State Agriculture Bank is also facing, which makes it totally different from the other business-oriented instrument we have.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e510	For my part, I would like to say that I am not the least surprised at the position taken by the Central Party in this matter, that you are going to go against putting the Bank of Agriculture under the SND, because that is the line of the Central Party's policy. The centre party was not just against the Fiskarbank joining the SND, because the party has systematically opposed the SND, ever since the establishment of the District Development Fund was merged with the Industriebanken, the Industrial Fund and the Small Business Fund. It's a line that I disagree with, but it's a line in it the same way that there's a line in the Labour Party's case, so from the start of the desire to bring together the country's food policy instruments in one institution. So, as I said, I am not surprised at the views of the Centre Party on this matter, just as little as the Centre Party should be surprised at the position of the Workers' Party. So to a principally interesting thing that Enoch brought up in his post. He said that, unlike the SND, which takes care of the farm-oriented instruments, we are going to use the Agricultural Bank to achieve policy objectives. I have to say that I think was a strange statement, because it's clear that the whole reason for the creation of the SND, the whole reason why SND exists today, is that we're going to achieve a number of policy objectives by having one state institution for nutrition and district development. Through the SND, we need to achieve a broad range of objectives: fisheries policy objectives, rural policy objectives, industrial policy objectives, policy objectives for establishment – and also achieve agricultural policy objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e517	The point is that it's proven that the Center Party has got it right in a lot of the criticism we've been making, and in many of the counter-representations we had against SND. I would also like to remind you that the original model for the establishment of the SND was also Bjarne Håkon Hanssen one of the strongest critics of his being a state politician in the Nord-Trøndelag. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen presented much of the same criticism as the Central Party. In some areas, SND’s instrumentation has now changed. However, yesterday the Business Committee was visiting a company that presented some of the same criticism of SND’s opportunities to contribute to business development that the Centre Party has brought up over time – the exact same criticism, among other things. where there was the possibility of taking risks, which is laid down in this room and for which I am not to criticise the SND, because it is the Storting that has determined the degree of risk that SND should be involved. We've criticized that. We have criticised the device on some of the instruments. It actually stands firm, and I think a lot of people today agree that the Central Party has been right in its criticism of the way this is arranged. As I said in my post, SND manages purely corporate measures. SND has an overall political task – they will develop Norwegian business, which in turn will lead to innovation and new jobs, and existing companies can receive solid funding and participate in risky projects. Nevertheless, this is targeted at each holding, but there are no policy objectives to be met in the same way as the agricultural management has in relation to the development of the agricultural industry. That's where the important distinction goes. In relation to agricultural management, the whole picture needs to be seen, because there is a close link between the agricultural policy objectives and the way we finance agriculture and the way in which advice and management are provided to agriculture. The centre party believes that it is not possible to separate these tasks by pulverising the agricultural policy instruments. There is something quite different than the company-oriented instruments that you have within the SND.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e526	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e530	Initially, I see some positive elements in the Government's proposal, not least in terms of job relocation. It is basically time that the Adult Declaration was followed up with concrete proposals – in particular, the leader of the Centre Party, Odd Roger Enoksen, should feel the need for action after having raised that question very centrally in the election campaign nearly two years ago. That's why he became a little puzzled and almost apologized here on the pulpit to start moving out – because it was very difficult. I know what this can mean for the community, as a runaway that has experienced both the relocation and the relocation of the National Library, the State Enforcement Centre and the Lisenskontoret. There's more legs to stand on. I also know that much that is condemned north and down, which you say is not possible, it works fine. You often get a little bit of innovation when you do it, and some established structures can actually change in a positive direction. Here, too, we are talking about sharing social benefits, which we are all contributing to, but which is now centralising, because state jobs are largely centralised. When you think about the size of the state establishment, it's always possible to reorganize it in such a way that it doesn't actually go so much beyond those who are employed there, because here it's often talking about big agencies. The fact that the Progress Party does not understand this, that they do not even understand the costs of breaking up housing patterns, that there are pressure problems, etc., is not to be wondered. But at the same time, I have to admit that when I look at this matter here, I see that there are elements in the majority proposal that I would like to go closer to and see the effect of. We don't want to reject the idea that changes to the structure can be right, but I think it's very difficult to adopt principles before you see all the effects, main effects and side effects, of such reorganisation. There, I think the majority go very far when they want to adopt the principles, not least those relating to them, are allowed to participate in the process. This proposal will be delayed. There have been no hearings, there have been no investigations, whether you say there has been a long debate. I think it's very important to get statements, because in most cases it's turned out that not everything is in one scale. There is something in both weight bowls, and it is important to figure out which weight bowl gets heavier when all the elements and all the arguments have come out. It's important for us to figure out what this means for example. The agricultural bank's district offices around the country. What does it mean to divide the management of the agricultural policy instruments between the SND and the agricultural departments of the counties — should it not be investigated and looked at? The fact that a functional distribution committee is now being set up to review the tasks of different bodies at national, county and local level — should it not also be seen in a context? I see a number of such elements, among other things. This means that the rural development funds are integrated into agricultural policy. By moving this to SND, coordination can be achieved. At the same time, I see that there are some other agricultural policy instruments. What is it like, you need an agricultural environment? What does it mean when you move this to SND? I see a number of arguments for and against which I would like to see in an overall context. And there's reason to discuss this. I feel that there are some here who will adopt a principle before you see all the effects of having that principle put into practice. As a summary, I would like to say that this strongly intervenes in the way agricultural policy is implemented, and there are so many fundamental and practical questions that it is absolutely necessary to carry out a proper review before a decision is taken on the principle. No clarification shall be given after the decision has been taken. I heard that the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, said that the Workers' Party had taken a stand, and if you now put this on hold and got a review, it was just to bring people and those you heard, behind the light. In fact, in SV, we expect such processes to produce some arguments that may affect our conclusion. Sometimes one might say that all the arguments are in one scale, but I don't feel like they're doing it here. That's why we have a much more open attitude to such a process. I think it's a wonderful bastant position Worker's party and the Right has taken here. Finally, I would like to promote the proposal that has been distributed at the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e553	The representative Inge Myrvoll has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e556	The Government aims to contribute to the spread of State jobs that do not necessarily have to be in the capital. The specific issue here is an attempt at this, and it is regrettable that a majority in the Grand Duchy does not want to contribute. For the Left, it is important that we get a simpler Norway, where public resources are used in the most sensible way possible. This may in some cases mean bringing together and coordinating measures that have previously been disseminated. But the more important it is that in cases where it is reasonable and possible, we can go the opposite way. We note that the majority does not want such decentralisation in this context. The model proposed by the majority implies that both the municipality and the users have two units to deal with at the state level. It's no simplification. It adds to the confusion about the administration at the regional level even more so than it is at present. The left does not consider it right for the majority to include the Agricultural Bank and the BU funds in the SND system. We don't think it's good that this is happening without an investigation and proper hearing. Economic and administrative consequences have not been identified and the risk of unintended effects is high. The bodies concerned, such as the Ministry of Labour and Administration, the county councillors and the organisations concerned, have not been given the opportunity to comment. The majority’s argument that the agricultural industry needs to be seen in the context of the rest of business seems to be sensible and positive. But if one goes deeper into it, it is clear that agriculture has a special role in Norwegian society, both as a food producer and as a fundamental foundation of Norwegian district policy. The framework conditions necessary to maintain the settlement in District Norway must not be confused. Central here is the concept of multifunctional agriculture. An example of this is that the world’s largest industry, the tourism industry, is entirely dependent on a functioning agriculture. In the forthcoming WTO negotiations, I will assume that the multifunctional role of agriculture in Norway will be central. In my opinion and in the view of the Left, the Labour Party and the Right's proposals may weaken this argument in the forthcoming debates. The BU funds are part of the agricultural agreement and should then be managed. Competences have been built in the county's agricultural management that can handle a complete instrument. A breakdown by separating the BU funds and the grant management can hardly be said to be user-friendly. It is also very unfortunate that the Stortinget intervenes in this organisation while the Government is investigating the relationship between the county council and the county council in several areas. The work of the Task Distribution Committee should at least have been awaited. Before the Committee gave its opinion, the matter had been discussed in depth. Many have been involved in the matter and have expressed their views on the Government's proposal. Of the almost 50 hearing opinions received, no one – I repeat no one – has proposed what the Labour Party and the Right are now doing. But this doesn't mean anything, if the games either way know what's best. In retrospect, however, we know that there have been many objections to the majority's proposals, including those of the agricultural sector, and I believe that such a dramatic majority proposal should have been the subject of possible opinions from the parties concerned. Otherwise, more people here have been involved in lighting SND and Fiskarbanken's function in this context. There should have been a public evaluation of how the Fiskarbank operates in SND. I have different notions about that functionality, and it's not as pink as many people make it here. It's not because of the employees of the SND, who do an excellent job, but it's because the system doesn't work according to expectations, to use the input from the fishermen in that context. I can give you more examples of that, but I don't have time to get into this right now. Otherwise, I just want to end by saying that it tastes like big business, which I think the opposition should have taken note of. One should send this case back and allowed interested parties to comment. Therefore, we support the SV's proposals in this context and otherwise support the proposal of the central government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e577	Government proposal in St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 6 contributes to the efficient and comprehensive management of key instruments in agricultural policy. We have proposed a principle decision on the relocation of loan and grant management, while market management is proposed to Oslo. At the same time, this scheme would contribute to the dissemination of State activities from Oslo. I need to express considerable concern that the Government's proposals are rejected by the majority of the committee, with reference to the model proposed by the majority. I am aware that the majority chooses the model with SND, among others. based on a desire to make the agricultural industry as comparable as possible to other industries and that they believe coordination within the SND will contribute to this. However, it is important from the Government to make the special role of agriculture visible as a food producer and as the main foundation of much of the district policy in order to maintain the settlement. Agriculture has this versatile task, which is now often referred to as the multifunctional role of agriculture. Agriculture and agricultural instruments already have a special position in the current WTO agreement. These tasks will need to be made even clearer in the WTO negotiations, which will start during 1999. In the context of this round of negotiations, considerable emphasis will be placed on the multifunctional role of agriculture on the Norwegian side. In the view of the Minister of Agriculture, it is unfortunate that this argument is weakened. This function would have been expressed more clearly by the Government's arrangements. The structure of rural development funds under the agricultural agreement and the organisation at county level has now found their natural place, and one can document good results. The main gravity is built through the County Agriculture Department in cooperation with the County Municipality and the SND, coordinated by the County BU Board. In this work, we have placed great emphasis on the need for the organisation to be user-friendly for customers, where the agricultural population and municipalities are the two most important. The majority model, which means that customers will have two units to deal with at the level of the county with regard to the management of agricultural policy instruments, will, in my view, appear to be a less user-friendly model than today’s one-address scheme at the level of the county. It is important to stress that the BU funds are the funds provided by agriculture in the context of agricultural settlements. Therefore, the BU funds are not traditional means that can be used for any built-up development measures. I have noticed that the majority of the business committee also recognizes the BU funds as part of the agricultural agreement. The arrangements, uses and appropriations for the BU Facility are a matter of agreement within the meaning of the Main Agreement and the current Agreement on Agriculture. I find it very unfortunate that a form of administration that has now found its form and in a good way contributes to the creation of new jobs, through the proposal of the majority, will now be torn apart. I'm not against change, but changing a form of administration that works well, I have trouble finding an explanation for it. Work on the proposition has focused on an open process and a broad consultation. A total of 48 consultation opinions have been received. None of these consultation opinions has proposed the model of the committee majority. On the other hand, after the majority's proposal has become known, strong protests have come from many teams. I do not know that there have been any statements of support for this arrangement. It is also important to bear in mind that the parties to the agricultural settlement have reacted strongly to the model and to the procedure. I note that the majority point out that there are currently several investigations in which the division of labour between different authorities at state level is to be assessed. I believe that in this situation it would have been better to await investigations at state level before making significant organisational changes at state level in the field of industrial development. A detailed examination of the majority of the model before decisions on organisation could have been taken in the context of the agricultural notification. I also record that, in an important agricultural policy case, the Workers' Party and the Right have reconvened. In fact, with regard to the proposals of the Progress Party, I believe that this will not produce to the same extent the unfortunate effects of the proposals of the Labour Party and the Right. I also refer to the letter sent to the Norwegian Food Committee on 8 February this year. Of course, the Minister of Agriculture will be loyal to what will result from the treatment here today. Within the framework of the decision taken, it is important to find solutions that serve the interests of agriculture. However, in this article, I have chosen to say clearly that I would stress my strong scepticism for the majority's approach.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e600	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e603	It was no surprise that the Council of State felt the need to express great concern at the plural position that we are debating today. It was nevertheless positive that at the end of his speech the Council of State confirmed that he would loyally follow up his decision. Something else would have been very strange. But I can't free myself from the fact that there's a little doubt that the Council of State is completely inwards that there are clear premises in the setting for what's to happen, even if the details are left. And I expect the Council of State, as soon as it can, to come back to the Storting with the detailed implementation, so that the Agricultural Bank can become part of the SND from 1 January 2000. My question is then: has the Council of State as its objective to return to the budget for the year 2000 at the latest with the detailed implementation of what is now in principle agreed by the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e615	I expect a former State Council to know – and this Council of State does too – what a decision in the Stortinget means. That, of course, means that's what's going to happen. I have also stated that the Council of State will loyally ensure that it does not put unnecessary obstacles in the way. But it would also have been quite unnatural for me to make a contribution today without the Council of State having clearly expressed his view of the reality of the matter and of the proposal with which the Government has come to the Stortinget. I have then tried to do so in my article. Otherwise, I have noticed what the majority also says, that a request from the Government comes back with its own proposition for a merger of the Agricultural Bank and the SND. Of course, it can be done in a number of ways. This can be done by making a proposition of your own, where this is put into place. As this will have several budgetary aspects also in relation to the State budget, it can also be managed in a way that will bring one back to the budget proposal and facilitate implementation based on what the Storting decides here. From my point of view, I would have suggested it, but I would like to have a signal back if it is acceptable for Stortinget that it is done that way. Moreover, it is also important for me to stress that we need to deal with this so that we keep an eye on how we are going to meet the new WTO negotiations on multifunctional agriculture. It is in this area that we have the opportunity to reach, also in cooperation with other countries. And if we look at how other countries have organized their administration, the model proposed by the Government is not, especially different from what we find there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e624	In a survey in Bondebladet on 12 November last year, the Minister of Agriculture says that it is quite natural that the grant unit is located somewhere in District Norway, and that is of course a meaning it is allowed to have, even if it costs considerable amounts. According to Statskonsult and the working group in the department, under certain conditions it will amount to 130-140 million. kr in the form of transitional costs, operating costs and waiting wages compared to the basic option, i.e. a co-location in Oslo. For the government, it may not be that much when it's in charge of a district policy that costs 30-40 billion dollars in transfers every year to healthy, working people. But anyway, there are significant amounts we're talking about. In this specific case, therefore, the government continues in the old tracks and sends the bill to Norwegian taxpayers, despite the fact that the consulting company has assessed and advised against this. It also does institutions and employees. I think it's strange, when this is an important matter for the government parties, according to the Waxenås Declaration, that you don't first probe the terrain of the Storting and see if there's a majority for such a performance case for the Government, and try to get agreed solutions. It's completely incomprehensible to me in this situation of a minority government. But my question to the Council of State is: how are the people and the people concerned to have confidence in the Government in this matter when there are neither factual nor professional arguments, and the model that the Government wants to introduce has very little support?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e633	What has happened in this case shows that the Government's proposal has a wide range of support outside of those who have commented on the matter. We have not reached the point of view of the United Kingdom, but all those who have expressed their views have strong confidence that the proposal that has come from the Government will help to implement and have a good impact on agricultural policy. This means that both the factual and the professional assessment made by the Government has not received the reception outside that it has received here in Stortinget. But it's the Storting that decides, and then it gets to be a cross of thought for others that the reactions have become what they've become. When it comes to the question of whether it's natural for a beneficiary to locate what's in agriculture, I think, if we're going to outsource state jobs, that it would be the closest thing to concentrate on the kind of jobs that have such a big impact field in District Norway as what we're talking about here. With regard to costs, it is true that this will be more expensive during a transitional period. We have also tried to make it visible in a neat way through what has been sent to Stortinget. There's some disagreement between those who have looked at this, about what it will cost of money. The Ministry has dealt with what State Consultant has presented and used it in relation to its choices. Then we have chosen an intermediate solution and said that the market unit should still be in Oslo, for example. Assuming that we have a strong device to meet the WTO negotiations with when they start at the end of 1999. These are considerations that have been made by the Government, while we have tried to communicate with the institutions that this is about. Of course, the institutions do not agree with all of this, but the Government has tried to have an open dialogue with them in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e646	I believe that the Council of State is very strongly involved in today's debate and expresses many frustration at the way the matter has been turned around, when he uses expressions such as that here the Labour Party and the Right have once again found each other, and even says that here we are behind a scheme that breaks the current administration, and he gives the impression that the majority parties no longer want to care for the best interests of agriculture. So he can say that after a few months ago we got the port of the best agricultural settlement of the decade, which was also behind these parties. The Minister of Agriculture should remember, even on a day like this, that he himself has taken the initiative to get an evaluation of how management works, and even takes the initiative to get more rational and efficient use of resources. You can't forget that. And you can't say that if we use the system that the state itself controls and is the owner of, SND, it's part of weakening the future possibilities of agriculture. The Council of State also says that the multifunctional role of agriculture today is forgotten, and claims that the way in which the majority parties pass this on is very serious, because it creates a poor starting point for the forthcoming WTO negotiations. How can the Minister of Agriculture claim that this will weaken the negotiations that Norway is going to undertake? Then, too, the Minister of Agriculture – and it is time – must begin to show the cards on how the Government wants to deal with this and present its negotiating arrangements. This is a strong contribution to simplifying and almost deceiving today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e658	I assume that there may be some understanding that the Council of State says that he is disappointed that he is not reaching out to the Government's arrangements. It would be almost sensational if the Council of State stood here today and said that he is very pleased with what the majority in the European Parliament is now proposing. So far, I think a state council must be allowed to go in terms of its principal positions and views towards Stortinget. As far as WTO negotiations are concerned, the Council of State has actually tried to signal a good deal of things about this in relation to the Storting, both through the proposal on agricultural policy and through the budget proposal, where we are talking about what will be an important element to stick to in an approach to the WTO negotiations. Of course, the Biggest and Biggest bodies will also be briefed on a comprehensive policy in this area, at the times it is natural to bring it. Multi-functional agriculture is not primarily tourism. Multi-functional agriculture is equally linked to the environment, it is linked to nature, it is linked to social relationships – to what can be said are the additional effects of producing food and farming. That's why I'm very surprised when some people here say that it's stupid that the agriculture department cooperates with the environmental protection department, because the environmental protection department just puts boilers in the way of District Norway. It is particularly important that agriculture and the environment have a good deal to do with each other. Firstly, it serves Building Norway, it serves agriculture, it is necessary for both pollution, environmental and natural policies in general, and it is a strength in that area, which must be almost the most important thing to carry out in the negotiations that we are going to conduct in relation to the WTO. I hope that in the new system we too will be able to make this visible in a good way. The system we have today, we know we're able to bring these things together, and that's why I think it's a pity that we don't let it work further.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e669	What we are now dealing with, the WTO negotiations, is a very important point. My view is that the Government and the Workers' Party have had a very similar starting point with regard to the negotiating position Norway is going to apply for in relation to the agricultural burden of the forthcoming WTO negotiations. Just focusing on the multifunctional role of agriculture has been a common platform for the Workers' Party and the Government. As I understand this, WTO negotiations are not a matter that the Ministry of Agriculture is running in particular, but a matter that the Government is behind, and that is coordinated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. My impression is that the Council of State is now saying that he is almost afraid that Norway may have weakened its position in the forthcoming WTO negotiations as a result of the fact that the agricultural bank is now becoming part of the SND. In that case, it is a serious signal. I think I'm going to have to ask the Council a little bit precisely: if you've got signals here, for example. by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has the primary responsibility for the negotiations to be conducted with the WTO, for such an action to weaken Norway's negotiating position in the forthcoming WTO negotiations? And in that case, can the Council of State be a little more specific about what it is doing, when, on the Norwegian side, one chooses to change its application-handling and payment system in relation to industrial policy instruments, that one suddenly has to be in a weakened negotiating position in the WTO?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e676	When it comes to presenting the needs of agriculture in the context of a WTO round, it is necessary to justify why agriculture needs schemes other than business. When the Workers' Party and the Right are concerned, this is the case, among other things. said in a press release that said that agriculture “is therefore more treated as an industry in this context in line with other industries”, we are moving into a discussion where we must at least not shrug aside the argument that agriculture in Norway actually needs a number of schemes other than business, compared to the rounds we are now going to have in the WTO negotiations. For the Minister of Agriculture, it is important that we stick to the multifunctional role of agriculture. I have actually realized that it has also been the line that at least the Workers' Party has expressed should be on the ground. In the opinion of the Councils of State, this means that agriculture is different from other industries. One cannot make it a goal that agriculture should be as equal as possible to other industries. We have to have a different use of tools, we have to have a different idea, given that agriculture is a food producer and an administrator of nature and the environment, and also that it maintains the settlement. These are the grips, which we have in common with a whole series of other countries, which I am very concerned that we must not weaken in the phase we are now in. I therefore hope that through the work that will now be done, we will find some grip that will enable us to also stand firm on this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e685	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e688	I fully agree with the Minister of Agriculture that agricultural policy is unique. But the same is also true of other industries. The fishing industry and fisheries policy are unique in their own way. As manager of a renewable resource, it also needs its specific strategy. The IT technology as an industry is also very special, because a lot of it occurs inside people's minds, and it needs to have its special strategy. The same applies to shipping. But if we look at business policy as a whole, where society also needs to have an opinion, both on how to plan it and in what areas society needs to go into, we see that there are some special areas where society can do a job. It's on the capital side, to stimulate the different businesses to manage themselves, whether it's fish, agriculture or whatever. The other area in which society can contribute is on the competence and education side, so that you are always able to take inwards what is much more demanding. And the third area concerns research and development, where many enterprises, whether in agriculture, fisheries or whatever it may be, are often so small that they cannot do the job themselves. So these are areas where society has to be involved and contribute. At the same time, the whole idea creation and planning takes place in the neighbourhoods and in the counties and is coordinated in a so-called strategic nutrient plan. Then it's important, if we want a coordinated business strategy from society that can help, that these links cooperate with each other. That's exactly what you experienced from the SND in the Nord-Trande Team, where we don't least have a central partition, which saw that here there were many terms that were concerned with going in exactly the same direction, but then there were so many different instances inside the image that this didn't always go in the same direction. Then, an initiative was taken by the SND people in the North Trøndelag – as I know it is also a bastion in agriculture – to see if the different forces out there could be coordinated with the forces centrally. That's how we got the SND in every state, and we also got a coordination between those who worked on the agricultural side of the county, those who worked in other areas of the SND, and those who worked on the nutrition strategy in the counties. As a consequence of this coordination, initiatives were also taken to integrate, for example: The fishing bank as a natural part of SND. When I hear today the Minister of Agriculture and others here, the exact same counter-arguments were used when it came to integrating the Fiskarbank into the SND, are used in the resistance to integrating the Farm Bank into the SND. I think it's right that we, on the part of society, have to have a coordinated approach, and that we go beyond these lines. I don't think it's enough that the development of competence is central to the Church Ministry. I think a lot of the central competence needs to be decentralised. I believe that the Research Council and its areas of action must be decentralised. That is why we have created this connection box on behalf of the state in the counties, and this has been done in conversations and negotiations with the individual states themselves. And then it gets to be that the county has to give some services and some jobs to a joint that connects the different parts much better – worse it isn't! Ultimately, it is the intention to have a coordinated approach to the responsibilities we have in society, and in a direction that we want to participate in and contribute to. Kåre Gjønnes was also involved in the WTO negotiations in her contribution. As far as the WTO is concerned, I feel that the most important thing on the part of society is to ensure that the human rights issue comes in as a natural part of the WTO. People have to be treated properly – workers have to be treated properly. Children shall not have to take heavy work, but shall be schoolchildren. It is an important area, probably the most important one, Norway can signal in the WTO negotiations, and I also expect our government to do so. But at the same time, in the area of agriculture, which is such a difficult area, we must have the attitude that when we are going to sell our goods, we must also be open to others to sell their goods to us for a reasonable amount of money. We must not feel as though we are ourselves enough. Just putting as much emphasis on the human rights side as we're going to do must not be misunderstood to be a protectionist. Not least Kåre Gjønnes and his department have a responsibility to contribute to. Because we know that negotiations in the WTO often have a negative impact on agricultural policy. Everyone wants to act, but they prefer not to take the burden of opening up to others.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e701	The greatest frustration of those who suffer some kind of defeat today has actually been that the consultation process has not been satisfactory. Reference has also been made to the personal aspects of this case. From the parties to the government, it has to a lesser extent been chosen to address the facts of the case, which, in my opinion, takes care of most of the reasons for which the Council of State has taken the initiative and submitted to it in this case. I am also pleased that the Council of State moderated its opinions on the fact that this matter could have some kind of devastating effect on the forthcoming WTO negotiations. It is a question that has quite a number of approaches, and when you look at the forthcoming negotiating process, I believe that we will be able to have both an agricultural policy and a fisheries policy debate. I don't think the Council of State is going to take all the troubles ahead. He has usually appeared as a strong expert council that has achieved good results – so this must be a matter that can be a living thing. I think the government parties will be taking part in a debate in which the agricultural industry is given a higher industrial status, because that is actually the true opposite of what you're contributing to today. I also think you have to bear in mind that the majority parties take into account both of the two main purposes of the case. Firstly, it will have a more effective effect on agricultural management, and secondly, we will take account of the decentralisation that will be in the reorganization process. Today, when we shut down the State Agricultural Bank and replace it with something even better, it must also be in favour of the total industry using these services. In my opinion, it must be in the interests of the agricultural industry to use this State resource — SND — which is set to ensure the overall interests of regional policy and is professionally equipped to carry out the necessary credit assessments to which the agricultural industry also has to be subject. Our model has a much larger and better decentralizing effect than the government adds. We're getting a lot more proximity to the users, because we're spreading staff to 19 counties instead of bringing together the eligible unit in one place in the country. I think it is very important to look at how the variant of the reorganisation of the Statens Fiskarbank has so far worked. I don't think anyone today, nor representatives of the government parties, wants to go back to the situation as it was in the old days. I also don't think the government parties will stand to present it as that everything you have today is good, and say, why change something that after all works? That's not the right starting point for meeting the future. You can't sit on your chest and say that everything in and around the BU means works as it should. Unfortunately, I think it is high time to review how the system is managed and how the funds are channelled. I am quite convinced that the SND will have a good and tidy hand and will support them when they will be distributed around hundreds of millions in Norway via the state budget in this area. The sum of it all is that I think today's final treatment will be to live with for all parties. I am sure that we will also be able to achieve a very significant decentralizing effect of this, and that it will contribute to raising the industrial status of the agricultural industry. And it certainly needs it in the years we meet, not least in relation to the forthcoming WTO negotiations, which can give the industry some of a challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e718	Over the years, there have been relatively frequent demands in the UK to ensure the relocation of state institutions and businesses from Oslogryta to the districts where this can be done with due regard to rational and efficient use of resources and better governance of public funds. But only rarely has it been possible to find such appropriate institutions that fulfil the conditions of emigration, while at the same time bringing together a political majority for a emigration decision. Now it happens again. In the 1999 State Budget, the Government has explained in detail why it would be reasonable to see the activities of the State Agricultural Bank, the State grain business, the Turnover Council and the Freight Agency for slaughter in the context, and, as a result, to relocate parts of the establishments. But no, the Labour Party and the Right do not want this. They have other assessments. And it must of course accept in such a political process. What's strange is that the two parties are not particularly concerned about giving any more reasons why they think the government's proposal is not good enough. The only thing in the position is that the majority believes that ‘it will not be right’, followed by some more general considerations — sentence. Then one gets in the way of proposing an association of two institutions that have not been assessed in any context in relation to what is available, namely the State Agriculture Bank and the SND. Without further investigation, it is proposed that the «Agriculture Bank of the Member State be closed as its own establishment». Apart from the fact that this could lead to problems that the majority themselves actually mention, but have no solution, and which they therefore leave to the Government to find out, it remains to be demonstrated that this new solution is both better able to perform the assigned tasks, while providing the necessary improvement in terms of efficient and rational resource use. I find only scattered attempts at this type of reasoning and justification in the setting, and I think it is a rather bold piece when one in this way goes out on government organisational development, without it being shown that one has the necessary insight into what consequences this will have for the services and for the resource management. In addition, the result is left: no emigration. From this I have a great deal of understanding of the SV's proposal. I would say it would be a great advantage if the Workers' Party and the Right could also realise that their own proposal could need such a reflection as the SV here suggests. Interestingly, the assessment expressed by both the institutions and the relevant stakeholder organisations regarding the four alternatives to organisational models on which the Government has used its treatment has been received positively. Continuously, there is a relatively broad consensus that coordination of the four institutions concerned can provide a sensible solution. Here are clear opportunities to take out interesting synergies. It also appears that a joint institution will be the best solution, according to consultations. Nevertheless, when the Government has reached a solution with two institutions, a two-tiered one in which the market unit is held in Oslo and the rest is moved out, this is justified by the fact that the market part may have an impact on close and frequent contact with customers and operators in the market and with other authorities here in the Oslo area. The rapporteur did his best to explain that the Workers' Party and the Right's proposals will be a good and sensible solution both for agriculture and for districts. I wasn't convinced. On the contrary, the rapporteur leaves so many loose threads and open questions that what he claims to attend to remains as mere claims, without the necessary probation. I fear that the majority's proposals will bring about a worse system, and I believe that the majority will assume a considerable responsibility for the uncertainty that will now come to the industry. At least the opinions of the industry itself and the relevant stakeholder organisations are not misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e737	It is the Government that has seen the issue of the organisation of the Agricultural Bank on the agenda. There can be no doubt about it. The members of the Government, and to the extent that the government of the various departments, know very well that the question of the organisation of the agricultural bank has been discussed before in previous governments. And when one has come into the position that the state’s tool equipment is most without exception collected in the SND, a process that started in 1993, and where the last addition to the stem was the Fiskarbanken per. On 1 January 1997, I find it difficult to understand that it comes as a surprise to the Government that the Labour Party proposes to integrate the Farm Bank into the SND. Had the government bothered to make such a small contact with the Storting, they would have been told that if that question were first seen on the agenda, the Workers' Party would go further on the line it was coordinating the state's tools one place. I think it's well documented that a better use and a faster decision overall, the more co-ordinated the state's tool is. Thus, it is quite natural for a now to move the State's agricultural bank into the SND. So it's going to be strongly claimed that we're doing this without knowing what the consequences are. Of course, we know the consequences of this for as well as for the users of the Agricultural Bank services. However, moving the Agricultural Bank into the SND will have less consequences for those who are currently added to both the State Agricultural Bank, the Freight Office for Slaughter, the Council of Turnover and the State Grain Business – so the Labour Party and the Right are of a different nature to the Government’s proposal, which is based on the relocation of 65 of these jobs. An attempt was made to make a number that the Government's proposal would give more jobs in the districts than the Labour Party and its Right. I am not willing to sign this on a tight arm. I don't overlook that when it comes to the decentralization of SND's tasks, which it has also been talking about for a longer time, at least after the new model saw daylight and came on the rails, we will actually get more jobs in the districts through the Workers' Party and the Right's model than through the Government's arrangement. And there will be jobs in all the counties and not just in a single municipality, as the government's scheme puts it – it would obviously be positive for the municipality that got these jobs, but something district politics grip can't call it. I understand that the Government has a strong need to try to sell this as a big district policy grip, which I absolutely cannot agree that it is. So it is claimed that this should of course have been sent on a hearing both here and there. Yes, of course it would have been, if it was such that one was invited to give a signal at the front of a conversion process. But we are not, of course, invited to take a concrete position on the organisation of the Agricultural Bank – not just for one year, but for a long time to come. And then we have to meet what we think is right, and that's putting this into SND. It has been claimed by most parties that it is important to develop business in the districts on a broad basis. The more one has coordinated government tools, the more likely one is to be closed, and the more likely one is to make more investments in the same area, so that they actually compete with each other. For this reason, I am pretty sure that this new scheme will be for the benefit of industry in the district, including agriculture. If we look at the pool of resources in the different counties, when it comes to guidance services as well as to requests for support, it is quite obvious that the agricultural industry is at the remotest resources. I am quite sure that we can make better use of the resources available to the whole business community through greater coordination than we have today. The representative of Kongshaug was concerned that this was a big business. I can do that in many ways, all the time that the Storting decides something other than what the Government proposes. But it should be good that the parties in government now have relatively long experience in the same exercise, trying to adopt something other than what the government has proposed. We saw clear examples of this throughout 1997. So they don't take this as the big surprise, which one can get the impression in the debate. So the council asked if it was okay if he came back with the arrangement for the implementation of this in the budget. What's important, at least for the Labour Party, and I'll also believe in the Right, is that we get this in place from 1 January 2000. Of course, if the Council of State thinks it's doing it by bringing it up in the budget, it's okay. So to SV's proposal for a decision. I mean that none of the parties – not those who are going to take over this, that is, SND, not the political environment – are likely to send this matter out on a new journey. Now let's get a principle decision! Therefore, my advice would be that we do not vote in favour of SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e758	In the Adult Declaration, the Centre parties went in order for the State to go ahead, in order to decentralize its activities. The experience of locating state jobs to the districts is so good. It has contributed to new jobs, created creative environments and provided important skills as district Norway demand. It is sad to note that the Workers' Party of all – who in Stortinget have called for concrete action in district policy – is torpedoing a concrete relocation project that has been carefully prepared and evaluated by, among others. State Consultant. The Government’s proposals for the reorganisation, coordination and relocation of the central management of agricultural policy instruments aim to contribute to the efficiency of both the use of instruments and the use of resources in agricultural policy, while taking an important step in the decentralisation of State activities. The fact that the Right Party and the Advance Party are opposed to the proposal to decentralize state activities was no great surprise. But that the Workers' Party would fail in an important district policy case, yes, it was more than surprising. A week ago, Thorbjørn Jagland proclaimed that the Workers' Party would now cooperate with the Centre Parties, because, as was said, reducing the influence of the right parties in Norwegian politics. In the course of the five days since the Troms Labour Party meeting, the Labour Party in the Stortinget has, in three major and fundamentally important cases, just established a majority with the Right and/or Advance Party. In addition to saying no to the relocation of State jobs, the Labour Party also challenges the agricultural agreement by agreeing – again with the Right – to wind up the State Agricultural Bank and deposit it under the SND. And that happens without the question of such liquidation being investigated, and without the parties to the agricultural settlement being heard. As Stortinget recently discussed the proposal for a new fuel-freight balancing system, the Workers' Party and the Right went in to send the case back for further investigation and consultation. However, despite the fact that both the volume and management of rural development funds in the Agricultural Bank are agreed in the agricultural agreement, the two parties in this case do not see any need to hear those parties who lose their influence over the management of funds agreed upon in the context of agricultural income management. The industry today has an influence on the use of these funds through representation on the Board of Directors of the Agricultural Bank and the state governments of the BU. This system has worked well and should therefore not be liquidated. When the Workers' Party came in with its surprising play on January 21, a few impressions could be that the rejection of the Government's proposal to decentralize state activities occurred almost on a principle basis. Such emigration had only symbolic effects, we heard at that time. However, the majority’s comments in the vote may indicate that the Workers’ Party has reduced the principal rejection of the proposal. Now the majority say that «it is appropriate to use the relocation of state jobs as a district policy instrument where it is appropriate». A deadline is set for questioning: when should it be ‘ready’ for relocation, when even the decentralisation of parts of the agricultural management is so-called relevant? In the light of the signals which, after all, are in the majority’s comments, I would encourage both the Minister of Agriculture and the other Government to continue their efforts to facilitate state delocalisation. This applies both in the follow-up to this case and in other cases, where, for example. use of information technology has created increased opportunities for such decentralisation. Even though the Workers' Party failed in this matter, I would at the longest time believe that the party has previously stated on the decentralisation and active use of information technology in district development, has been something more than empty words. And after this week, we might hope that the workers' party leader's rhetoric to prevent the right parties from getting too much influence on important national issues, hopefully being downgraded.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e785	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e788	There were a lot of things in what Jacobsen was about, which it could be interesting to pursue. However, I have to concentrate on one point, where I believe that Jacobsen must have misunderstood, because in connection with the BU funds and the right to negotiate for the organisations, Jakobsen says that this is, as it were, a violation of the right to negotiate with the organisations, and that the organisations are going to lose their influence. Both in the setting, in my main post and not least in a line I used to have to go to the Aukhan, I made it clear: the BU funds should still be part of the agricultural negotiations. Both the size of the allocation framework and the distribution of investments between traditional agriculture and new industries will continue to be negotiated. Organisations shall retain their current influence on the use of BU funds in the boards of directors, and the profile and arrangements of the BU funds shall be maintained. I have to ask Jakobsen quite specifically: what is the right to negotiate that organisations lose through this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e796	I actually think it is Bjarne Håkon Hanssen who misunderstands, because I have not stated that a person loses the right to negotiate. The point here is whether agriculture comes in as a party in the same way as before when it comes to influencing the management of these funds. And if that's what Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is now saying, that almost everything is going to be like before when it comes to the relationship with the agricultural agreement and the parties to the agricultural negotiations, then what is the purpose of carrying out a comprehensive restructuring and reorganisation of an establishment? I remember Jan P. Syse in connection with the reorganisation of the Nordic Council said, "What's okay, doesn't have to be changed. Here I'm left with the impression that this is a system that has actually worked very well so far, as the industry, which has negotiated these means, is satisfied with, and that has been proven to have produced good results. Nevertheless, the power of the Workers' Party seems to have to try to change this. After hearing the case rapporteur and also recently the representative Opseth, I am left with the impression that there is a point here that the government did not go to the Labour Party and the Stortinget and examined whether it was possible to accept this. One could actually get the impression that there was a point when we heard these posts earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e803	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e808	Why change administrative organisations in the districts, when it actually works side by side and co-ordinate? The relocation of the main seat was important to renew the bank and get it out of the spirit of Oslogryta's housekeeper and into the creative environment and networks in the districts. The bank function is for the users and does not have to lie a wall in the wall with the Stortinget. At the same time, relocation from Oslo will not affect the organisation's first and second line, which is important for users – unlike the majority's proposals, which will affect users. With the majority proposals available, the truth, a little bit pointed out, is that SND guys have finally won. Now they've been given a loan and a grant to the BU Fund, and they can stop this terrible funding of so-called scrap and small business in Bygde-Norway. There are so many who are ashamed of Micro and Small Business Norway. There is a negative basic attitude behind the coordination interest of strong forces and viewers. SND-funded hotels can now put an end to the development of overnight accommodation capacity in the context of urban tourism. It's been a fight, we know. It would also be of great interest if we had had an evaluation by the users of the Fiskarbank of the reorganisation that has been. The female perspective of the BU Fund has been very important. The BU Fund has succeeded far more than the SND in meeting business start-ups with transparency for step-by-step and soft start-up, long-term thinking and business development with spin-offs from established agricultural activities. Other State financial instruments have not wanted to go into and invest in concession property, as the BU Fund has done. There should have been a claim that SND had shown that they could compete with the Statens Landbrugsbank and the BU Fund to succeed in such small-scale start-ups. The Building Development Fund is a system that hits women well, with an administration that is accessible and has gained confidence in women. It is not without reason that a female Minister of Agriculture introduced the BU scheme, further developed it, and prevented it from entering the SND hatched in 1993. In St. prp. No 8 for 1992-93, the rural development strategy was an important part of agricultural policy. You may disagree with the device on the agricultural part of St.prp. No 8, but the further development of Thorstein Treholt’s agricultural banking thinking against additional industries in the countryside was particularly important for women’s political and rural development. I would say that the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund has never been prevented from financing projects similar to those now funded by the BU Fund and the State Agriculture Bank. I am afraid with this coordination we lose much of the knowledge and administrative knowledge directed towards rural development. I hope I'm wrong, but I'm afraid I'm right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e823	Now when I ask for the word, it's to say something about the progress to get this in place. I just want to say that we, both the Council of State and the Department, will do everything we can to get this in place within the timescales that the majority have expressed that they want. We have relatively short time to get this in place, where all of this will be in place on 1 January 2000. We're going to do what we can to do it within these limits. There are some problems here that we have to find good solutions to. There are still some challenges here from the majority of the ministry that we have to try to meet in a proper way, and I expect that there is an understanding that we are here to find good solutions, and that we are going to try to do this as quickly and effectively as possible. Just so it has been said by the Council of State that finding good solutions to get this to slip together must be a premise that we take with us from this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e832	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2037]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e848	In my opinion, aesthetics in the cultural landscape are a concern that should be given more and more attention. Norway has a great, varied nature that is given us for administration. Many of nature is still untouched today, but much is cultivative and is still subject to change. The usefulness is probably the strongest consideration in the management of our natural and cultural values. In recent years, we have seen many examples of aesthetic considerations becoming increasingly widespread in the management of natural and cultural landscapes. This is, in my opinion, an entirely correct and required development. Making aesthetical considerations and assessments become part of the management of the cultural landscape will, in my opinion, be a natural development. The development of the cultural landscape is a continuous process that requires long-term objectives. Most of the cultural landscape is managed by agriculture, and therefore close cooperation with farmers in order to identify positive instruments should be ensured, so that aesthetic considerations become a natural part of the objectives underlying the development of the cultural landscape. The entire population of Norway will have joy and interest in an aesthetically beautiful landscape. For the districts, there will be a lot to say, both for the inhabitants and for the visitors, who will see a landscape that is developed after, among other things. aesthetic consideration. This will strengthen the districts, and one will feel proud of the neighbourhoods and workplaces, and at the same time it will increase the recreational value and the value of experience for many who travel through or live in District Norway. Today, districts mean a lot to central areas as recreational areas, and they can offer other goods that the centre cannot provide. In this way, the districts and centers complement each other. The experience and what it means is more focused, among other things. in a comprehensive programme to be implemented by the Norwegian Research Council. An interesting research report on the cultural landscape of agriculture was recently presented. It addresses the issue of the cultural landscape and what it means to take it more systematically seriously, and not least to ensure that the various actors in the field of nutrition, management and legislation are moving in the same direction. We're not allowed to end up on the regime's battlefield. This interpellation has been built in order for the districts to become more conscious of their aesthetic advantages, as well as that the care of natural and cultural landscapes requires consideration and cooperation. Bygde-Noreg has a rich culture and strong traditions in many ways. I think it is reasonable and right to strengthen this side of agriculture at the start of a new millennium, because this has not been seen at the top of the agricultural list in later generations. There has been a tendency to evaluate the quality of life of central areas in recent generations. This, in total, has created a strong centralization. Unfortunately, half of Norway’s municipalities have a decline in the population. The government's stated goal is to reduce and eventually stop this centralization. In this work, it is important to mobilise Bygde-Noreg for positive tasks and a good faith in the future and development of qualities that can only be developed by the communities. The aim of future developments should be to preserve the best traditions and focus on the further development of building practices and landscape management. We now all have a more or less conscious relationship with beautiful nature and beautiful landscapes. Developing a consistent attitude towards taking aesthetic interest in all the development of agricultural property will be of great value both to the user and to the user who sees the result of these processes. Experience of friendship gives us and our senses strong experiences that contribute to raising the quality of life. In order to strengthen these developments, agriculture needs incentives and professional guidance in the care and development of its property. Garden stuns, buildings, gardens, different plantations and wood plantations, allars, fences, roads and general maintenance have a lot to say to everyone who sees the process and the result. Norway is fortunate to have a strong rural agriculture that prevents the regrowth and, as a result, the development of a uniform landscape. Residual biotopes can be found anywhere in a biotopesic variety. Our many cultural memories should be appreciated when it comes to legal access and people's understanding. Many rural and rural areas have various activities to make the community more beautiful, whether it involves the development of agglomerations, agricultural properties or building sites. Many good results have been achieved. We have also developed many landscape architects around the country in which we are participating, and in the future we can participate in strengthening the quality of these developments. Local and regional administrations should be able to offer free sketches to individual users by means of cultural landscape measures and the maintenance of buildings, at least in certain areas of activity. I hope that the Minister of Agriculture will support this and help to achieve this. I am also aware that the research environment is working on how to develop the cultural landscape in the best possible way. Further research processes should be useful and dissemination-oriented. Agriculture already has a versatile task. It is of great importance that agriculture, with its organisations, will see this as an inspirational measure that will be of value to the industry, with increased ownership of its own work, and for the development of the industry's own property, which will also be relevant to the recruitment of the profession. At the same time, this will lead to the general population meeting a district Norway that presents itself in a fine way. This could also act as a lever for mobilising communities, cooperation solutions and efforts, thus welding the building layers together on positive tasks. As the means for building development have triggered initiatives to address new services, it is also important that the use of the garden is given a general facelift in order to appeal to the many new users of the services created around the farm. Against this background, I would like to hear whether the Minister of Agriculture is prepared to direct actions by the Department towards stimulating a development with increased emphasis on aesthetical considerations in the planning and practical development of the cultural landscape.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e884	Humans, through farming, have shaped the landscape for thousands of years. The landscape we see today is the result of different modes of operation, different regional and local conditions and different ways of assessing the landscape as a resource. It is therefore a living landscape characterized by both the natural and the human processes. The cultural landscape is the result of human activity, and thus the maintenance of the cultural landscape becomes conditional on people continuing to function in it. The cultural landscape of agriculture is diverse. Over the years, agriculture has contributed to both good and bad. For a long time, agriculture met a one-sided focus on the negative impact the industry had on the landscape. Gradually, many have understood the importance of active agriculture in order to preserve many of the goods we like to mention as environmental goods or collective goods. Multi-functional agriculture, or the multi-faceted tasks of agriculture, includes more than food and fibre production. An important result of active agriculture is precisely the cultural landscape. Therefore, agriculture also has a responsibility for the cultural landscape managed by the industry. Among other things, there will be: aesthetics and building practices, as expressed through buildings, tuna solutions and other individual elements, are an important area. These are key factors in assessing our action in the landscape. I believe that agriculture has a conscious view of the whole of the cultural landscape. Much has been done in recent years to show that agriculture, both industry and administration, has done a lot, among other things. in relation to aesthetics and building practices. But it's clear that these are the factors we have to include in the further work within the industry. In the government's agricultural policy, the preservation and further development of cultural landscapes and values of experience, the preservation of cultural memories and outdoor values are an important area, and these are challenges that we also see for agriculture. Cropping and the development of cultural landscapes, cultural memories and the cultural environment will also have a broad place in the new Landfill Communication on Agricultural Policy in 1999. Here it will be central to give a holistic focus to the cultural landscape, where diversity is concentrated. In the new WTO round of negotiations, which begins around the millennium, it is expected that agriculture will be fully centralized. Here, just multifunctional agriculture, and therefore the importance of an integrated cultural landscape as an environmental asset, will be important, among other things. to legitimise the need for specific arrangements in agriculture. Today, agriculture has provided a number of instruments for the annual agricultural negotiations, focusing on cultural landscapes. An important grant here is the area and cultural landscape grant, which amounts to more than DKK 3 billion per year. The Land and Cultural Landscape Grant is a broad one and is initially a grant to all farmers. The purpose of strengthening the income generated by the use is to contribute to the care, maintenance and development of the cultural landscape through active operation. In order to receive the grant, there is no possibility of major changes or interference in the cultural landscape and a number of environmental requirements have been developed. The environmental requirements, such as: addressing the preservation of aesthetic elements of the landscape, helping to ensure a diverse cultural landscape. Violations of the environmental requirements may lead to shifts in the grant. One of the key instruments here is ‘Additions to specific measures in the cultural landscape of agriculture’. The grant shall contribute to the consideration of environmental values in the agricultural cultural landscape and target biodiversity, old cultural areas, cultural memories and environments, peaceful and protected buildings and the availability and quality of experience in the landscape. In 1999, we distributed approx. Eighty million. kr in clean project funding under this scheme. Over the last few years, overall environmental efforts have been concentrated and prioritised. There has been a need for a more comprehensive focus on cultural landscape work, bringing together several holdings. The government believes it is important to link work on cultural landscapes and pollution more closely through the coordination of instruments. This will give greater opportunities to highlight the whole of environmental work. Furthermore, there is a need to see agriculture in an area related to other social sectors if you want to maintain or improve environmental quality. For this reason, it is desirable to widen the scope of action. The Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture have therefore wanted to look at the possibilities for coordinating instruments against the areas and measures in question. Coordination of instruments from several departments and a coordinated focus on different environmental challenges have resulted in what is now called ‘area actions’. In order to succeed in the work on territorial measures, local involvement is a prerequisite. It is natural that the work is linked to the work of local authorities on the Action Plan for Local Agenda 21. Within territorial measures, it is possible to take into account neighbourhoods and to assess the overall need for, for example: upgrading an area both for cultural landscapes and pollution. Here, a branch, a valley side or a river basin can be a topical area, and in a holistic perspective, it is clear that in cultural landscapes, aesthetics and building practices become important themes. Area action shows in many ways the direction we want to go in the overall environmental work. Wholeness, local participation, commitment and cooperation we believe are important prerequisites for success. By focusing on the whole at the same time as a local anchoring in the local environment, we believe that in the long term we will contribute to an increasing level of awareness related to the values of the cultural landscape. The Ministry of Agriculture has committed itself widely to increasing knowledge and understanding of the importance of the cultural landscape, both at county and municipality level and within the industry itself. It is important to communicate the important link between an active agriculture and a living, holistic cultural landscape, with both the ecological and cultural aspects. At national level, we need to ensure a high level of professional competence in the cultural landscape. Furthermore, we need to ensure good cooperation with the various agencies and agricultural business organisations. Last year, a «Fague of Cultural Landscapes» was established to contribute to the professional development of cultural landscape work in management through an annual seminar. At the same time, the Professional Forum shall be a professional venue for the exchange, information and discussion, where different parts of the management and business organisations are represented. It is also important to remember the cultural memory year, which was in 1997, when we had a coordinated commitment to what both the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Culture were in and around. Although much has been done, and many good projects are in progress, it goes without saying that an industry that manages so large areas and so many buildings must be conscious of its responsibility all the time. First of all, I would like to mention that I would like to assess whether stricter requirements should be imposed on the tuna plan in relation to the development of individual farms. In the case of tuna solutions, inter alia: construction practices and aesthetics important elements. Furthermore, a major challenge in the future will be to involve municipalities in raising the visibility of the agricultural and environmental values of the municipal plan. There are many opportunities to place cultural landscapes on the agenda of each municipality. In cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Labour and Administration, the Municipal Councils and the Agriculture Departments of the counties, the Ministry of Agriculture plans five regional conferences where agriculture and the importance of agriculture in the region are concerned. This will be a good opportunity to focus on both the opportunities and responsibilities of municipalities in this area. The government believes that the inter-pellant issues are an important part of agricultural policy. Through this answer I have tried to point out the measures that are already in place to take care of the values we find in our cultural landscape. If we succeed in this, the well-being factor is also increasing for everyone in Building Norway. Furthermore, the government believes that the very investment in ‘area measures’ will increase local involvement in the future, and that this work will give individual administrators of the cultural landscape the motivation to think in full and in diversity. In order to underline the importance of this theme, the Council of State will be open to assess specific projects in the field of civil engineering and aesthetics in the cultural landscape. The initiative may come from individual municipalities or regions and projects must be based on local anchoring with broad local participation and involvement. Such projects will also fit well into the thinking of ‘area actions’. Finally, I would like to remind you that the efforts in this area must not be seen as purely State responsibility. If this is to succeed, it is essential that the individual farmer knows his responsibilities and adapts his/her operations within the framework laid down and can still be exploited.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e937	I thank the Minister of Agriculture for an interesting response and note that the Ministry of Agriculture for the first time will help to create a greater emphasis on the importance of taking aesthetic interest in the development of landscapes, and, secondly, to participate and empower the practitioners in taking aesthetic action. Here's what we're talking about, so there's solid traditions that have created so much value in Norway over a long time. It will mainly be the rural people who carry out the work and pay for the various projects. But I think it is necessary to follow up the many beginning-to-be interesting sprouts to take aesthetic considerations, with coordination and some state incentives for local people to find it useful and likely to move on to this on a broader front. This is essentially a teamwork between organisations, public authorities and the practitioners, and in order to achieve this cooperation, it is crucial that we be closed down with a systematic approach to taking such consideration in the further development. There are many scattered initiatives that the Council of State expressed and presented here. In my state, Rogaland, we have a lot of background. We had a project for a few years ago that we called 'Vacre sites', which mainly focused on the development of urban areas, which have produced good results. We have Action Jærvastre, which has also been supported by the State, which has stimulated stronger efforts in this sector. I think we should move on, for example, public opinion. offer free sketches/plans of the development of houses and property, and that there may be a bet area where the Ministry of Agriculture can hopefully participate. I thought it was very gratifying that the Minister of Agriculture said that one of the agricultural messages that was expected in the autumn will have some views on this topic further, and that then it will probably be opened for test areas where there is a possibility of projects. This will be of interest to the districts. I hope that this will be useful to many people, and that the ministry can be active when it comes to trying to follow up this initiative and making it known to the districts that it is possible to develop these samples more locally.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e946	I think it is important that this part of agricultural policy be made visible. Too often, production is what's in focus, and kilograms and liters. That's the way it's going to be in the future, but there's also extra values that make us have the living landscape as we see it today in Building Norway. So cultural landscapes are created by human influence, and then, of course, it's vital and important that this influence take place in such a way that the cultural landscape is pleasant and that one takes care of the values that lie there. But that also means that the cultural landscape is not static, it changes. The cultural landscape we see today is probably going to be a lot different in a few years, not least through the greening that we know today is happening because of the area being taken out of operation. The cultural landscape will stand out quite differently from what we see today as perhaps very good and correct. I just want to remind you that the department has created a supervisor that has gone out to the municipalities, so that each municipality can make its own agricultural plan, and some municipalities have already started that kind of planning. Just as we have discussed here today, it will also be important for a municipality to enter into this work. Through the five regional conferences that I referred to in my speech, all the country's rapporteurs, all the country's advisers and those working in the agricultural sector will be invited to join in discussing these kinds of issues with the ministry, and this will also be part of the message that we will be making to the Stortinget, hopefully during the autumn. In this way, I feel that the department and also the Stortinge have made a lot of efforts that are important in relation to the importance of the cultural landscape in the future. Otherwise I noticed the signals that have come from the interpellant in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e955	I agree with the Council of State that it is interesting that through such an interpellation debate as we now have, we can see the additional dimension that the Council of State is also talking about in relation to agriculture and agriculture. There is no doubt that maintaining the cultural landscape is an important task from a national perspective. One can only take something as simple as that it's the cultural landscape, it's the agriculture and the work it does to keep the cultural landscape in check, which makes Norway the beautiful country it is. I think it's important from a local perspective, and I think that for a very large number, the beautiful towns are a significant element in the choice of housing and in relation to the well-being where you've chosen to live. I think it's important for the individual farmer that you feel that you're in favour of keeping the natural heritage and the cultural landscape in check. My main impression is that this is something that Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian farmers take seriously. It is clear that, when you drive in Bygde-Norway, you always see exceptions, but it is consistently true that the cultural landscape in Norwegian agriculture is well maintained. At the same time, I think it is an important element in this debate to point out that this is also a balance sheet. Farms must not be required to be close to being more of a museum than to be living farms where industrial activities are to be carried out, where industrial development is to be carried out and where new requirements have to be changed over time. That's why, in my opinion, the most important thing you can do to take care of the cultural landscape is to keep production going. If you don't manage to keep all the utility units going, at least you have to keep the land in claim and in that way take care of the cultural landscape. It's a cultural landscape as a result of an agriculture in production we need to stimulate. What concerns me somewhat in this context is all of the land we've been given. You might say that neither the lessor nor the lessor feels the same responsibility for keeping the cultural landscape in claim as in a traditional relationship where the owner and user are the same. This last issue, I think, is important for the Council of State to include in the big message that he is writing, where this of land renting should be a central point anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e962	As I understand the interpellant, public resources are to be used to incorporate a certain attitude of agricultural actors about how the cultural landscape can be developed. ‘Cultural landscape’ is a concept that can be compared with a flexible door hinge that fits all doors. It's hard to define, and will depend on the eyes that see. The State Department of Agriculture has contributed to the creation of a new profession in Norway in a brochure entitled ‘Skjøtsel Av Kulturlandskap’, which stresses that the protection and development of cultural landscapes will be a new field of trade and a further production in agriculture. I assume that the intention is for farmers to act as cultural landscape workers and cultural landscape producers, funded by fiscal means. To date, substantial amounts of land and cultural landscape grants are being granted under the agricultural agreement. From generation to generation, the animals of the farmers have settled in the landscape. The peasants have traveled their ski courts, and they have maintained their houses. But now it seems that the cultural landscape is to be launched as a national awareness of the farmers themselves. Let's go back a few years in time. During the golden age of agricultural subsidies, in the 1970s, huge sums were injected into the industry as a significant contribution to transforming Norway’s face. The funds were used for so-called cavities, and the bulldozers went night and day. Dalsogk was planed down where you could get to. The flat soils replaced the peacock. The benches were placed in a pipe. Small, hilly pastures became flat grain soils. I'm wondering how many ancient memories were peeled away in this period. You can just wonder about that. Now it's going to be cleaned up. So first, flat land was to be created for public funds, and then, in the next round, let the farmers as cultural landscape producers sort out this with new public funds. The Progress Party does not consider this cultural landscape objective to be an objective of agricultural policy, financed by agricultural production. But we are attending to the Ministry's agricultural report and get more concretely back to the question when dealing with it. I hope it will come in the fall session.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e975	I thought it was nitrist to run to Stockholm. Cratch forest takes over the earth. Outdoors and lions fall due. That's not how we should get it. I once ran a world-renowned American from Geilo to Fornebu. He could not stop wondering about the well-held earth, they painted and stilted the houses, the houses and the lions, and how clean and clean it was all over. This is unique, he said. Maybe Switzerland could be compared, but otherwise no space. I knew I was proud to be Norwegian, that we had something to show up. We have something to take care of. Nature is given us from the Creator, who was both generous and creative when he sang the song for Norway. He also created man, and what we worship is also not to be despised. Without living settlements, tourists will hardly find the tour worth taking. Without farmers, the villages die. Therefore, it is important to provide good conditions for those who are willing to take over and drive a garden. Although the primary function of agriculture is always food production, we need to focus monthly on the multifunction agriculture has in caring for cultural buildings and the environment. This must cost the big community something. It's a cheap investment compared to dead rurals. I believe that a quality-oriented production of cultural landscapes will help to increase well-being, and will increase the desire to live in the countryside. In addition, a three-star cultural landscape will be a good environmental policy. The organisation of movement at the premise of universal service is important for health and well-being. This is a common good as those who lack it seem untold. Now, someone likes the mother and others like the daughter. Tastes and pleasures, or aesthetics, are not easy to agree on. But most people see when the style is broken. Even more people rejoice when construction works appear to be healthy and adapted to the landscape, and I think everyone sees that the root and scrap are indestructible. I remember that as a little bit I wondered why someone built the house as a margarine box, with four openings on each side. Now I understand that it was because of economics. Fortunately, not many people build like this anymore. So a little apropos that I want to mention. May 1st and May 17th are in many ways a salutation for Norway. Those who don't clean up until May 1st can do it until May 17th. The train can walk past the house! It's a huge advantage all summer. Let us have a policy that coordinates the means of a sound agricultural and environmental policy, as the Minister for Agriculture has just done. Then we're getting even better, and Norway is getting even more beautiful.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e996	I thank you for participating in this debate, and I feel it is a relatively broad understanding that we have a unique cultural landscape and a unique nature to manage in the country. In recent generations, production targets and efficiency have been much the governing force in agriculture in order to survive in one way. Today it's created a good foundation, and as a welfare nation, we should also raise our eyes and see if everything we've done back in history is right, or if there are certain things that it should sort out. We've come very far. There's still a certain process of raising awareness, empowerment, coordination and some public incentives. We are running a long-term management even in the future. Some of the most important thing about such a process is, in my opinion, to allow the district to exploit its foremons. For too long we've been blind to the foremons that the center has. In my opinion, this will make the rural population and also the central parts of Norway aware that we cannot avoid an active and aesthetically fine district Norway, and will also help us in the coming generations to have living settlements for the good of all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e1005	In short, it's fair to say that, where the disagreement arises, the answers will also appear. And I have to say, when the representative Hedstrøm says that we should not interfere with cultural landscapes in agricultural policy, that the Minister of Agriculture strongly disagrees with that. I also strongly disagree when the representative comes up with expressions such as ‘injecting’ money into it. Now, after all, there are a number of objectives agreed by the Storting, which one should try to achieve through agricultural policy. When the representative Hedstrøm says that we recently ‘injected’ money into using bulldozers to level the ground, I would say that it was actually within a goal that I would think the Progress Party is familiar with: it was to become more effective. It was to make it easier to produce on a smooth surface, and it was to be mechanized as much as possible to get it as cheap as possible. Today we see that it might not have been the wisest thing to do. So efficiency sometimes has to give up in order for us to have a cultural landscape, as we see that we want it today. So I just want to finish by saying that I'm a little surprised that the representative Hedstrom doesn't see what lies in the possibility of being able to draw money into the country also through tourism, which has been mentioned here earlier today, where it's the cultural landscape that sells, where it's just the cultural landscape that makes it interesting for people to get into the districts and create businesses. Then it'll be my greeting back that for the Council of State, the cultural landscape will have a relatively broad place in agricultural policy, because I think it's absolutely connected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e1014	That is when the debate is on case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e1026	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2038]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e1034	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e1059	As it appears that the centre party's proposal does not get multiples, it will be natural for us to vote for SV's proposal for a postponement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e1064	It's natural to bring up SV's proposal first because it's a postponement proposal, so it's going to be in that order. Is the recommendation that the parties vote in favour of this postponement proposal first? - It's nodding. Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The matter of coordination and partial delocalisation of the central management of the agricultural policy instruments shall be referred back to the Government in order to obtain an overall assessment of the various options proposed in the Committee’. The Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e1084	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to coordinate the central management of agricultural policy instruments in accordance with the following guidelines: the Agricultural Bank of the Member States, the Danish grain business, the Council of Turnover and the Carcass Carcass Office are coordinated in an institution governed by the Ministry of Agriculture.The market and grant unit is located in an establishment in Oslo.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e1102	Proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, to voting. Inge Myrvoll – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e1107	Since our proposal to be examined – and addressed – the proposal launched by the majority was not adopted, it is difficult to vote in favour of a principle that we do not know the consequences of. That is why I would advise the SV's group, although it is very exciting in the proposal, to vote in favour of the proposal by Modulf Auchan.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e1112	Then we are ready to vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left, which I understood would also support. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e1160	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-02-18.ana.ud1914e1299	There is no record.
