ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-lower.ana.ud1056e35	This setting covers two things. The one applies to proposals for new legislation in the Finance Act and financial institutions that provide legal basis for self-owned institutions such as savings banks and mutual insurance companies to form the financial group. The second issue concerns the proposal for a new point in the legal text concerning the possibility of deviations from the Owner's Limitation rule. The amendments have their background on two specific issues. The first is the agreement between Sparebanken NOR, Mutual Indemnity Insurance and Mutual Life Insurance and the application for the right to form a mixed financial group. Under the current rule, the parent company of the financial group is normally formed through a holding company. Self-employed and member-owned financial institutions are specific by the fact that they cannot exercise ordinary ownership control and cannot therefore be owned by such a holding company. The legislative proposal opens up the possibility of the holding company being replaced by a group board with a dominant image of the group’s members. The highest body in relation to the savings bank and the insurance company must decide on a contract to facilitate such a group relationship with two thirds of the majority. A joint committee agrees with the proposal which will now provide the necessary legal basis for savings banks and mutual societies to form the financial group. In particular, the Committee would stress that this change now ensures a level playing field between banking and insurance, regardless of whether the institutions are organised as a limited liability company or are self-owned institutions. This model requires clear rules on decision-making and accountability, and a group committee specifically points to the central function of the group board, both at group and enterprise level. When it comes to the proposal to change the limits of ownership in the Finance Act, it has its background in the application from Export Finance ASA for the concession to take over all the axes of Municipal Credit Norway AS. In 1990, the ASA's export finance received a derogation from the Owner's Demarcation Rule, allowing other financial institutions to own more than 10 pst. of the axes of the company. The amendment does not significantly regulate the export finance of ASA to provide specific financial services. On the other hand, the proposal provides for a derogation from the rules on ownership, which does not prevent a financial institution from being regarded as providing specific financial services in exceptional circumstances, even if it is owned by another financial institution. A co-consultant committee joins the bill and gives a positive view of the provision of Kommunekredit Norway AS to the municipalities, and that it must be the competitive situation that determines the future growth of Kommunekredit Norway AS. To the point of ownership limitation and mention of Kommunegreditt's future growth, the Progress Party has an additional note that is provided by the option. A comprehensive committee will recommend the legislative changes proposed by the Government in its proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-lower.ana.ud1056e63	The rapporteur explained that the Progress Party had a supplementary remark. Yeah, that's right. It surprises me a little bit that no other parties in the financial committee have been willing to participate in the content of those comments. The focus of the Party for Progress is to emphasise that we need to have competitive framework conditions in the Norwegian market, in particular because many of these players are in fierce competition in a deregulated international market. But then we also have some profound views relating to the government's justification for granting exemptions from the ownership rule. First, the government has justified this on the grounds that the location of the head office should be decisive. I don't think it's necessary to give weight to these kinds of things. What must be important is to enable any company to compete on as equal a level as possible with other companies – not to focus on where the head office is located. Thereafter, the Government has placed emphasis on the proportionate management capital. It has been explicitly expressed. It may hinder the growth of the company if it is one of the conditions for exemption. I see from the joint comment that we have, that the committee does not want it to be anti-growth. On the other hand, however, it is important to stress that this relationship should not be a hindrance to the new company. Furthermore, the Government has underlined that it is applicable to the existing owners with regard to the assumption of the exemption. I dare remind you that there is some particular ownership structure that we see here, and that, among other things. has been discussing merger between Focus Bank and the Danish Bank, where Focus Bank is a former partner in this company. It must be absolutely essential to focus on the overall considerations, which should be competition in the Norwegian market, and I hope that is also the remainder of the Financial Committee's intention in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-lower.ana.ud1056e74	First of all, I would like to say that I think it makes sense to now open up self-owned institutions to form a mixed financial group. It allows for a merger solution between Sparebanken NOR, Mutual Indemnity Insurance and Mutual Life Insurance. It will create a powerful Norwegian banking and insurance group, which is important to strengthen competition in the Norwegian market. As regards the case relating to Export Finance ASA and Kommunekreditt Norge AS, we are pleased that it is now being opened that Export finance continues to be exempted from the rules on ownership, so that you can own local government credit. The reason why this makes sense is that export finance has a favorable foundation. By taking over the local government credit, the local government credit will also be able to offer Norwegian municipalities a competitive product and loan, which will be positive. Norwegian municipalities depend on borrowing to invest for useful purposes, and when this acquisition enables them to gain more competition in that area, it is an important contribution to reducing their capital costs and to spending more money on what makes sense, namely investment. We've also noticed the different reasons for the department. I have no comments on that, except for one point. It is to the department that writes that the activities of Kommunekreditt Norge AS are not extensive in relation to the activities of the Export Finances ASA. This was noted by the Department. And the Committee has said – as the rapporteur has explained, and as Siv Jensen pointed out – that what is crucial for local government credit in the future is competition in the market. The Committee's comment, stating that the competitive situation must determine the future growth of local government credit, shows that there are no links in the ratio between the administrative capital of local government credit and export finance.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-lower.ana.ud1056e83	Several have not asked for the word. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-lower.ana.ud1056e91	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-lower.ana.ud1056e172	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-lower.ana.ud1056e181	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-06-lower.ana.ud1056e190	There is no record.
