ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e27	From the Nomination Delegation to Ukraine, there is an application for a permit signed by the Head of Delegation, President Kirsti Kolle Grondahl. The application shall apply from 25 May to 28 May for the period of leave of President Kirsti Kolle Grondahl and the representatives of Bendiks H. Arnesen, Helene Falch Fladmark, Ansgar Gabrielsen, Fridtjof Frank Gundersen and Odd Holten. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for Oslo, Berit Kväven, is currently abroad and is therefore unable to meet under the leave of the representative Helene Falch Fladmark. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For the West Agder County: Anne Berit AndersenFor Akershus County: André KokkestadFor Buskerud County: Frank Willy LarsenFor Oslo: Hallvard AamlidFor Troms County: Arne BerglandFor Østfold County: Inger Lise Brück2. Frank Willy Larsen, Arne Bergland and Inger Lise Bräkke are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Kirsti Kolle Grondahl, Bendiks H. Arnesen and Odd Holten.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e107	On Friday 14 May, the Stortingen received a notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Peter Angelsen Council of State Gudmund City Council Hilde Frafjord Johnson The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. The President has registered one. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e126	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Today’s newspaper reads that there are now record sales on Systembolaget in Sweden, and that Norwegians buy alcohol to a greater extent than ever. The 1998 national accounts show that, despite a real increase in alcohol taxes, the country's income from alcohol taxes has fallen by about a quarter. 6 pst. In the 1998 budget position, the central parties wrote that they wanted a significant increase in the level of taxes on alcohol, which could have a positive effect on health and the environment. My question will then be: does the Government now see that there is no longer any link between the increase in alcohol taxes and the consumption of alcohol by the Nordics, and will the Government soon take an initiative both to limit border trade and to make it more attractive for the Nordics to buy alcohol in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e137	Questions about trade leakage, particularly against Sweden, have repeatedly been a topic here in Stortinget. I don't know how many questions I've got in the questionnaire about that particular problem, and there's also been interviews about it. Of course, it is a problem to have a trade leak to neighbouring countries. A certain commercial relationship and thus a commercial leakage will always be necessary. But it's probably true, as Siv Jensen now suggests, that this leakage starts gradually to assume dimensions that may be objectionable. I will not deny that to a greater extent than so far you may have to take into account, among other things. the level of fees, e.g.: in Sweden when setting our level of fees. However, it may not only apply to the products now mentioned by Siv Jensen, alcohol and so on. I have noticed that there is also a significant leakage to Sweden in food trade, and a likely explanation is that there are twice as high taxes on food in Norway. You have 23 pst. VAT on food in Norway, while you only have 12 pst. in Sweden. The Progress Party has consistently opposed to doing something about it. So I think a lot of people should think about whether we have a proper charging policy in both the one and the other.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e144	I am very pleased that the Council of State suggests that there may be a basis for reducing taxes on alcohol as well as on food in Norway. It's very joyful! Now more goods are exposed to commercial leakage. The turnover of white goods and brown goods has also increased significantly from Sweden to Norway. But with the opening now given by the Minister of Finance, does that mean that we can already expect proposals in the 2000 budget that are heading towards a reduction in these charges, or is there going to be more talk on the part of the Government than action?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e151	Of course, I will not now announce what will be in the budget to be presented at the beginning of October. But this is a problem which, of course, we have in our work on the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e156	Per-Kristian Foss – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e159	I noticed that the Minister of Finance suggested that agricultural products too are a cause for border trade. I think he's got something right in it. I also read the Minister of Finance's statement now that this is invoking a new line from the Government in the agricultural negotiations to bring down the prices of Norwegian-produced food. The Minister of Finance is probably able to confirm that VAT is not the decisive factor in what consumer prices actually are, especially when compared to Denmark, which has a higher VAT rate, even on food products, than Norway has on all goods. Will the Minister of Finance confirm that what was now done in the agricultural settlement, with increased prices of Norwegian food, is a line from which the Government will go, after the statements he has now made?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e166	What was now the theme was trade leakage. Then I pointed out that there is not only the difference in the level of fees, for example. alcohol that can explain the trade leakage against Sweden but that there is also a trade leakage in the form of a significant purchase of food in Sweden. And then I pointed out, as a possible explanation of that, that there are twice as high VAT on food in Norway as in Sweden. To the extent that you want to take some signals from my side in my first answer, it is that I want to assess the VAT question. I have announced that we will come back with proposals for a so-called VAT reform in the spring session next year. In this context, the question of VAT on foodstuffs will also be considered.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e174	Einar Olav Skogholt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e177	In addition to the large commercial leakage to our neighbouring country Sweden, and in part to Denmark, we also have a very large turnover of smugglers. It is claimed that wine monopoly sales account for only one third of the turnover of spirits. One third are traded illegally and one third via duty-free sales, etc. Does not the Council of State think that a reduction in the taxes on alcohol could help us get a greater share of the total turnover added to our wine monopoly sales, that we can compensate for a reduced tax on alcohol by getting a greater share of the total turnover added to our sales?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e184	With regard to the issue of any harmonisation of charges, it has a cross-border relationship with the legitimate trading activity. I have no faith in the illegal smuggling business that can be affected by the level of charges. Here, there are so many profit margins that it would be completely impossible if we were to keep our justification for the health charges, to lay down ourselves at a level that will significantly reduce smuggling. Here, there are other things that need to be used, and it is primarily to increase the risk of detection, i.e. a strengthening of, among others. Tollvessenet.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e189	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e192	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: When Minister of Finance Restad presented the revised national budget, he stated that the arrows to point upwards pointed upward, and those to point downward pointed downwards. This was very pleased with Minister of Finance Restad. The revised national budget states that growth in the Norwegian economy is halting and that unemployment will increase. The government's own percentage estimate shows that there will be about 30,000 more unemployed by the end of this year compared to last year. When the arrow for leave points up – so we get more available – is it that Restad is satisfied with it? And is that the explanation that the Government also does not propose any measures in the budget to counteract such developments?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e201	I understand that it has fallen Hill-Marta Solberg a little heavy for the chest that the arrows point in the right direction. Of course, it's not very pleasant for the opposition that this is happening, but I'm at least happy about it, and I think the Norwegian people do too. Then the Workers' Party will be alone in grudgering that this is happening. I am pleased that this question is coming, because I registered that Hill-Marta Solberg again mentioned a number of 30,000 more unemployed during the year. What I registered was among the first working party comments last Monday when the revised national budget was presented. There was clearly something the Workers' Party had decided to use as a criticism. Unfortunately, it is claimed that these figures are found in the revised national budget. I have now personally gone through that carefully, and I have got my office to go through it. It is completely impossible for the Ministry of Finance to understand how the Workers' Party has estimated this figure of another 30,000 unemployed, because the situation is that there has been little change in registered unemployment since the New Year. There were many pessimists who predicted a sharp increase in unemployment as early as the turn of the year, but we have not seen the increase in unemployment manifest to date – on the contrary. The last numbers we have, which is from May 12th, show a registered unemployment rate of 55,700. It's 1,500 fewer unemployed than a year ago. In the same period, there has been a 10 000 reduction in labour market measures, which means that we have not received the unemployment increase that many had predicted. There have been some more lay-offs – 2100 more – but the sharp increase in unemployment has not yet been seen. I think you should rather enjoy it than try to make it so that in the course of the year you will have 30 000 more vacancies than we have today. I would like – if it was possible to ask another way – to ask: How has the Workers' Party calculated to arrive at the figure 30 000 more unemployed during the year?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e210	The President is somewhat uncertain in the direction of questions – but Hill-Marta Solberg, please!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e213	I guess I get the right time to answer the Council of State's questions first!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e218	It's one minute to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e221	If I can help Minister of Finance Restad, it is that if we are to achieve his average unemployment rate for the current year, we will have to have an unemployment rate of about 4 p.m. towards the end of the year, so that – as I said in my question – compared to the level of unemployment at the same time last year, it will mean a difference of about 30 000 from the end of last year to the end of 1999. That's the math. But when, despite what the Minister of Finance now says, the Government mentions in the revised national budget that there will be increasing unemployment, the Government also says that it should be resolved by greater mobility in the labour market, which means that unemployed industrial workers will become health workers. And then I have to ask, how many welders does Restad think he can make it into nurses, and what kind of policy does the government have to get this into?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e228	Yes, I understand that it is possible to ridicule the need for certain changes in the labour markets. It is tempting to ask: How were welder workers created in 1998? I don't know where they came from. For it is a fact that the activity of the oil-related activity increased dramatically during 1998. What seems to be happening in the current year is losing the jobs that came extra in 1998. It's no more dramatic than that. But it will be completely impossible to imagine maintaining the very high level of activity in oil-related industries in the longer term. There's necessarily a change of pace, even if it had to hurt a little bit in the transition phase.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e234	I do not know if it is allowed that I again answer questions that are asked.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e239	There will be a breach of the regulations that apply to the oral question procedure, so you have to do this in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e242	Sylvia Brustad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e245	It is a step forward that the Government of the Revised National Budget recognises that unemployment is increasing, but when we hear the Minister of Finance today, he is not as clear about what he has written in what is being treated in the Storting. In addition to once again trying to challenge the clear speech of the figures, the government does nothing about this situation. I understand that Regeninga's new slogans in relation to labour market policy are: From activity to passivity. The only thing the government does is to increase the daily allowance, but it does nothing about active measures, such as: correcting yesterday's errors in labour market measures, and there is nothing happening to remedy the situation in which parts of our industry are now in. As Hill-Marta Solberg says, if the government's own estimate of unemployment is increasing, it will increase by over 30,000 people from the end of 1998 to the end of the current year. And my simple question is this: Why is the Government sitting quietly looking at this and not initiating active action?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e252	I think you can ask the question who is questioning the clear speech of the numbers – because now I have just mentioned numbers. So on May 12, there were 55,700 unemployed in Norway. It's 1,500 fewer than a year ago. And in the case of the AKU unemployment, which I understand is that the Workers' Party has suspended itself, it is right that the seasonally adjusted AKU unemployment has increased from 3.1 pst. at the end of the fourth quarter of last year until the end of the first quarter of this year – from 3.1 to 3.4 pst. In the revised national budget, we have estimated that the AKU unemployment rate will increase further, to 3.5 p.m., but every tenth of the unemployment rate does not exceed 2 000 people, and there is a heavenly difference of 2 000 – or if one starts from the figure at the end of the year – and the 30,000 that the Workers' Party has now repeatedly claimed will become the larger number of unemployed at the end of the current year compared to what we had at the end of last year.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e259	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e262	The discussion of how much unemployment will increase during the winter and autumn must be an academic discussion, because what the Government now acknowledges is that unemployment will increase. We can see that through all the forecasts contained in the revised national budget. We see it not least by the government itself adjusting the estimate for day-to-day payments. So if it becomes 30,000 or 20,000 unemployed, we're facing a situation of increasing unemployment. I'm going to give Restad credit for actually being more – let's say – optimistic over the winter than that, among other things. I was, because I thought the time off was going to increase earlier than it does. But what we are now facing is a situation where the government also acknowledges, as many other institutions do, that unemployment will rise. And then the question is, Is it true of the Government just to increase the daily payments, or is it important to put measures in place to counteract the unemployment? My specific question is: What measures does the Government think of? When we went a few laps in winter, the Minister of Finance, and also the Prime Minister, were concerned about what measures, and said that the Government was prepared to take action at any time. An action could be to renew the ferry fleet on domestic voyages, which is a sensible measure for the sector that is now most hit – the yard industry. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e271	The President noted that speaking time should be respected. The question is, as far as the President could register, far too far-reaching.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e274	Not to be misunderstood: I do not deny that we can get a certain increase in unemployment during the current year. I have said that since last fall, when the government was heavily attacked because we did not see the writing on the wall at that time. It is true that Øystein Djupedal now points out that he and many others were strongly pessimistic around the turn of the year. I think we should now rejoice together that this pessimism has not turned on, and that when we pass the middle of May, we have not yet seen any increasing unemployment in Norway. With regard to the measures that can be taken, the Djupedal denominator is targeted specifically at the paint industry. In fact, there are some plans in the government’s revised national budget that should eventually lead to the construction of two new rapid routes – whether this happens this year or later, I don’t dare say anything for sure, but at least there is something that hopefully will benefit Norwegian shipyards. And Peter Angelsen, who is sitting here as Minister of Fisheries, has a research vessel project in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e281	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e284	In the debates that followed, inter alia: on the radio after the revision was presented, the Minister of Finance repeatedly said that he would sit and wait and look at developments before the Government would take action to counteract unemployment, among others. by changing the framework conditions for business. But when we know that the current government is so happy with the levels of tax revenue to the state as it actually is, is it not better to change the framework conditions for the industries that are exposed, so that we get active jobs that will contribute to increased tax revenue to the state, rather than that we need to have an increased expenditure item through labour market measures or unemployment payments?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e290	The thing about waiting and seeing was a comment from my side to Hill-Marta Solberg in a radio debate, where Siv Jensen was also present. But that was relative to the question: do we get 30,000 more unemployed in the course of the year, or do we not get it? I again warned against being so pessimistic, against repeating pessimism from last fall. It was in this context that I said that you could wait and see if you get the strong increase in unemployment that Hill-Marta Solberg's number party to 30,000, also in that debate. When it comes to what makes more sense, it is clear that it makes more sense to get people to work normally than on labour market measures, and I have mentioned a few measures that could lead to people getting work. But I notice that the opposition in Stortinget has a slightly different view. The Progress Party and Siv Jensen want the one thing that the Workers' Party has said they want the very opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e297	Tore Nordtun – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e300	We should go a little further on this, because there are several government councils that have stressed this with unemployment. If it showed an increase trend, concrete measures should be taken. I think the Minister of Finance must be happy that the opposition in the Storting is aware of unemployment and is monitoring it. I will take a quote: Councillor Lars Sponheim – who quoted the Prime Minister – said in Stortinget: «This we will have under continuous monitoring, and then adapt economic policy. Of course, we have the opportunity to come back to this – if not before then in the revised national budget – and to put in place new instruments if unemployment shows an increasing trend.’ Now, when the Minister of Finance confirms that there is an increasing trend, where are the concrete means of meeting this increasing trend – as is just suggested, since the Minister of Finance almost denies that we have an increasing unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e312	I haven't denied that we can get some increasing leave. I get to repeat it again, so no one will come at the end of the year and say, "What did we say?" There has been a certain increase in leave. I don't want to ignore the fact that it can happen, among other things. Because we have more permits for the time being than we normally have at this time of year. We have not proposed increasing the number of labour market action places. However, what we have proposed in concrete terms – that was what I was in place – is measures such as. a. may be useful for the paint industry. I don't think it is necessary to tease it, because I believe I have responded to this earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e317	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e320	I get to stick to the finance minister, who's got warm in the sweater – or in the summer dress. I stick to the arrows, but this time I go over to the interest rate, where the Minister of Finance has been fairly concrete. He said at the presentation of the revised budget – at least it was perceived this way – that at the turn of the year we would get an interest rate of 3.75 pst. in Norway, measured as three months money market interest rates. It seemed nice to those who still have some housing interest or student loan interest to pay. So we get dementia from his political secretary: ‘There are no political promises in the projected interest rate trend. There is only a technical projection of the market that seems to be waiting for at this stage.» It may not be true, because it is clear from the revised report, both directly and indirectly, that the interest assumptions used by the Ministry of Finance in the model are precisely those presented by Restad. The model for economic projections is based on the interest rate assumptions outlined here. What is true – Restad’s first version, political secretary’s version or document version?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e336	It was with good advice that I put on bright, light clothes today, I understood what was going to happen in Stortinget. I think it's okay to get the chance to solve the question about interest rates. The discussion about this has its origin in the fact that a newspaper that should be a specialist on such issues, namely today's Business, had misunderstood a plan that I showed during the press conference last Monday, where they had been able to read about, according to what was stated in the newspaper the day after, that the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance predicted an interest rate in Norway of less than 4 p.m. already at the end of the current year. It is a misunderstanding that the newspaper has committed, and we have tried to help clarify this misunderstanding. However, later articles in the same newspaper do not suggest that you will realize that you have misinterpreted the current curve that I showed. I've publicly said what I think will be a probable interest rate development. I have pointed out that we have now regained confidence in the Norwegian economy, the krona has increased sharply to date this year, and interest rates have fallen by 0.5 percentage points in three rounds. I have said that I expect that the conditions should now allow us to have a similar reduction in interest rates for the rest of the year. I haven't been more precise than that, but something similar to what we've had so far this year, I also expect to happen for the rest of the year. I also expect a further fall in interest rates beyond 2000. I have answered direct questions from bl. This box can be used to specify the units of the van der Waals constant'a '. TV 2 that I will not rule out that the interest rate can then come down to 4 pst. That's what's been trying to communicate. To the extent that this has not been achieved, it may of course be partly because I have not communicated well enough, but it may also be because someone who has interpreted what has been said has not got hold of what has been tried to communicate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e347	I am not sure if anything became clearer after this answer. I recall that in the early 1990s the representative Restad was among those who strongly criticised the then government, the government of Gro Harlem Brundtland, so that in other areas – that was unemployment at the time – it would not provide political forecasts but technical projections. My question is now: What is the Minister of Finance's – then I'm not aiming at the Office's but at the political-responsible management – forecasts of interest rate developments? And the answer shouldn't be that interest is going to go down, because everybody knows that. However, the question is, when will the political promise that we will come down to the European level – which now, after Europe has adjusted again, is about. 2.5 pst. – be fulfilled? That's basically what you're looking for to get answers from a politician.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e356	First of all, I confirm what Per-Kristian Foss said in his first question, that the curve that was shown was technical projections and must not be seen as predictions. So it's over. Then, for my part, I have never said or written that we should come down to the European interest rate level. But I have said that we should come down to the European level; it says, among other things. in the national budget from last autumn, and I have repeated that many times later. And it was also in the first answer that I expect it to be evolution. So far, there's nothing to suggest that these predictions can't hold, but of course, things can happen – not least in the world economy – that create problems for us in terms of these forecasts. We have a lot of experience for that when we only see ourselves six months ago.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e366	Well, let's get on with the main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e369	A question to the Minister of Finance, and it is not based on trends, but on realities: Industrial employment has decreased by 22,000 persons from the first quarter of last year to the first quarter of this year. This is reflected in the latest labour force survey from the Statistical Central Bureau, so this is not a trend. In comparison, industrial employment increased from 1993 to 1997. In particular, in 1998, under the current government, negative developments in the number of industrial workplaces have slowed down. In the revised national budget we do not see concrete proposals aimed at industry. As far as we can see, and as the Minister of Finance has also been involved, there is a list that goes the wrong way. Is the Minister of Finance able to answer why the Government has not found it appropriate to take action against industry in its revised draft budget?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e379	I guess I feel that this is one of the same theme that has been up before, but I accept that it's a new main question anyway. It is true, as the representative Dalheim points out, that in industry, employment has been significantly reduced recently: with more than 20 000 people from the first quarter of 1998 to the first quarter of this year. However, it is also true that in business services, in trade in goods and in the health and care sector, there is still strong growth in employment, thus significantly offsetting the reduction in industrial employment. There is also some of the explanation that we have not yet seen the increase in unemployment that many said. The government has said in the revised national budget that it is estimated that employment for the current year will increase by about 5 000 people, from 1998 to 1999, and that this could give an AKU unemployment of about 3.5 pst. as an average for the year, against 3,2 pst. last year. So it's like -- and I've mentioned that in a previous answer -- that oil investments came up at a very high level in 1998, and the industry itself admits that it was a little unreasonable to lay down on such a high level because everyone saw that one would have to have a slowdown in that area. It is such that the high level cannot be continued, and it is therefore also limited what can be done with economic policy instruments to prevent a decline in activity in this sector. Any increased unemployment within a single industry and geographical area could be counteracted by increased mobility, as pointed out in a previous question. In addition, such developments will be actively met by the use of labour market policy — if it turns out to be very dramatic — and not least an intensified dissemination effort. With regard to the concrete measures we have proposed, I just refer to what I have tried to answer two previous questions about measures specifically for the paint industry. I would like to add that, for the yard industry in the past, we also increased the level of support; the aid rate was raised from 7 to 9 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e392	I just have to register – and it’s dramatic, I think – that the government, as the finance minister now refers to it, has seen all the danger signals, but they say right away that there is little to do here. What we're facing is a very difficult situation, especially for the industry. We have an interest rate in Norway that, even if you try to describe the positive in that interest rate goes down, is 4 pst. over what we have in Europe. And we also have – and that is at least the heavy responsibility of the Government – a price and cost increase that is close to twice what Europe has. Today, the industry has a bunch of skills that cannot be squandered, but that is what you need tomorrow, and that is why I have to stress the Minister of Finance again with what is then the reality as we now record it, that the Government has not found it right to take concrete action. I have to ask again, why not, when reality is like that?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e401	Yes, I believe that I gave an answer towards the end of my previous answer. What we've been focusing on is continuing a tight economic arrangement to facilitate a further reduction in interest rates. This will include, among other things: The business community has great pleasure, and of course the households as well. So there has been an overall objective for the Government in the preparation of the revised national budget too that we should not obscure the opportunities we now have for a significant interest rate reduction both over this year and into next year. As far as price and cost growth are concerned, it is true, as Dalheim pointed out, that it is about twice what our competitors have, but it was also in the reign of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e410	Well, let's get on with the main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e413	My question also goes to the Minister of Finance – I see he is prepared for it; he just stays standing. The issue concerns the structure of the Norwegian oil sector. We now see that the whole structure is under debate. It is a proposal that Statoil should be on the stock exchange. We see that there is a proposal that Hydro should buy up Statoil and thus contribute to the disappearance of Saga as an independent company, but also that the state's ownership of Hydro goes down. So we see that it's in the closed boards and by the directors the premises are put for the debate on what structure we're going to have in the Norwegian oil industry. It is extremely important, and above all a political question. Now the government has been astoundingly passive in these discussions. I even see that even working oil and energy ministers say that it may be relevant both to go under 51 pst. in Hydro and that Saga disappears as a company. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Government use its ownership – so the government has ownership of all three companies – to actively contribute to the structure of the Norwegian oil sector?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e424	I do not feel that this is my subject area, and that I should therefore refrain from answering. I just want to say that the government has so far not discussed the situation that has recently arisen. It will, of course, have to do so, but what conclusions will be drawn in this regard, I can't signal anything about now.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e429	I'm a little surprised that the Council of State says this is not his area. For the Ministry of Finance, there is, to the most extent, an active actor here, both through its ownership and not least in terms of its income. This means that the government must have discussed how it is supposed that the Norwegian oil and gas industry will look in the future. So we have a 100 pst. State owned Statoil, we have a 51 pst. State owned Hydro and the State has a 20 pst. ownership of Saga through Statoil. What is now happening is a total restructuring of the Norwegian oil sector. It's amazing if the Ministry of Finance sits passively and looks at what's happening now, and lets all the premises be put in the boardrooms, and the government itself, through its participation, tries to premise for what this should be. I allow myself to ask the question one more time – and I would also like to ask the Minister of Finance as a centre party: does he not believe that ownership of Norwegian oil companies and oil environments is important in order to contribute to a structure, and that the Government will have an opinion on it, or does he really believe that it is the companies themselves who are going to put all the premises for the structure of the Norwegian oil industry?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e436	Of course, the government has discussed the oil industry several times, but what I tried to say instead, is that the government has not discussed the concrete thing that has now arisen, where Hydro has bid on Saga. There is a new situation, as the Government of course has to take a discussion about, but since it has not been done yet, I do not think it is right for the Minister of Finance to give any indication as to what the outcome of such a discussion should be.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e441	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e444	I think the finance minister can sit down -- he needs a breath in the ground. I have a question that goes to the Minister for Fisheries. As a representative of a party that is not only concerned with what is happening at the rural level, but also the maritime, I have a question that I think the Minister for Fisheries should address and give an answer to, and that is the situation in the Coastal Works. In the Progress Party, we have received a lot of enquiries – and it is still going on. And when it comes to the working environment in the Coastal Works, when it comes to the claim of neglect of services, when there is a breach of information obligations, when there is a breach of sailing regulations on the Norwegian coast, when it comes to the follow-up of failure to take decisions on size, among other things. breaching the regulations and the agreement as regards the marking of bridges, this is a matter of vital importance for people along the coast and for those travelling on the sea. So I want to hear if the Minister for Fisheries will take an initiative to get a review of the entire Coastal Agency.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e453	This was a long list of claims that I would like to have seen documented. What is in the administration is to implement the decisions taken by the magnificence and government, and so far as the current government has been, and I have been the Minister of Fisheries, I cannot see that there has been a breach of any of the premises that have been laid upon the administration, in the exercise of the office. I know it has been submitted a letter that is something back in time. I can't vouch for whether statements made there are correct. The previous government set up a coastal works committee to review the organisation and distribution of work in the Coastal Works. The selection setting was submitted now in winter and will, of course, be dealt with in the manner in which it is to be dealt with, and will also be submitted to the Stortinget in some form when the Government has taken a decision on what to make of any changes. I guess that's what I can say. I do not agree with the claims made here. I believe that the Coastal Works carry out their work satisfactorily, based on the resources they have been provided.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e463	Yes, the Coastal Plant is a large organization, which is divided into five districts and has about. 1 200 employees. There is a lot of good competence there – I am in agreement with the Minister for Fisheries. But the claims I made have been made by people who themselves work in the Coastal Works, and people who have had contact with the Coastal Works in many areas along the coast, whether it be the marking of lighthouses or the follow-up of decisions, etc. Once these claims have been made, I think it must be an obligation for a minister to address this and examine whether there is hold of some of them. Only the accident in Northern Ireland in 1998, in which three young people lost their lives completely unnecessarily because of a lack of proper labelling, was intended only to indicate that the minister was responsible for himself and made an examination of why no decisions taken by the Ministry of Fisheries have been followed up in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e470	Let me say that I do not agree with the claim that the accident occurred because the bridge was not marked. What happened in the investigation of the accident is that the people who were exposed to that accident were actually known in the area. The coast works initially have an obligation to mark all the fairways, not to mark all the places on the coast where it may be dangerous to travel. That would be a completely impossible problem. And then, of course, you can start a discussion about whether that bridge should have been marked. But let me just make it clear that, in my personal view, the bride should not have been built like this. And it has come to light that it was built in the 1980s before it was submitted to the Coastal Agency for approval. We now have a review of the matter, which I regret to say is very regrettable. That accident shouldn't have happened. In the review with the road authorities, we have come to have a completely different and more satisfactory procedure for the construction of road constructions in the waters.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e477	Lodve Solholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e480	Not mentioning the fact that the accident in Valsøyfjord could have many reasons. But it has certainly been a burden – this bride should have been marked. What amazes me when the council here now says that it was a «a pity» accident, and that the bride should perhaps have been marked, and one is a poster clock and says that this bride should perhaps not have been built as she is, when it is probably 20 years since she was built, is that he is not willing to go in and examine such an accident, on the basis that it was a requirement – that this bride should have been marked. Even if people are familiar on the coast and know the area, it is among other things. weather and traffic conditions that have caused many accidents to occur in familiar waters, with familiar people. I find it a little strange that the Council of State is not willing to go in and investigate this accident.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e489	I have not said that the Department or I as the Council of State are not willing to investigate the accident – we have actually done so. We have had a complete review of the entire course of the accident and looked at the causal relationship. We have also looked at what should be done in the future to prevent such accidents from occurring, and it is precisely to ensure that such structures in the waters are not built in such a way that they could lead to an accident risk. We have had a complete review of the special case concerning Valsøysundbrua, and have taken our precautions for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e496	Let's get on with the main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e499	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. In the government budget for this year, the Government proposed a postponement of hospitalization. The government’s proposal meant that 2,100 elderly sick people who were waiting for better care would still not receive help this year. In the budget debate on 14 December, government councillor Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa said that the reason for the reduction was that ‘some municipalities have indicated that they need more time to implement a good planning of new, larger construction projects’. The Labour Party proposed a full pace in the construction of hospitals, but the central parties, the Advance Party and the Right decided to cut the development. Now it turns out that the information that the municipal planning was delayed was not correct. The revised national budget now states that the urban development plans of municipalities even exceed the original ageing plan. The government is fully retreating and now supports the Work Party's tempo plan. My question is now: can the Minister of Finance confirm that the information we received in the Stortingen budget debate was wrong and that the care of the elderly can now be developed at a full pace?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e512	No, the information given in the debate on 14 December was not wrong. At that time, the government had many enquiries from municipalities that asked for longer time when it was up to the development of old people's homes. And that was the basis for the government to allow you to spend six years on implementation, not four years, as originally planned. This meant that you could reduce the number of new dwellings each year from 5,800 to 3,700. It was the information that was available before Christmas. Then it is right that we now in the new year and in the future have received completely new information from the municipalities. Here it turns out that the municipalities have probably been speeded up in planning the development. So now there are plans for more than there will be room for, actually even within what was in the originally adopted plans, 5,800 new dwellings each year. This is also the reason why the Government has now set out in the revised national budget that 5 800 posts will be expanded for the current year, as originally foreseen, with the additional costs that we have then covered in the revised national budget. And even if I'm not going to tell you a lot about last year's budgets, it's clear that it will be followed up in further budgets as well. But we will continue to maintain the offer we gave to the municipalities that asked for it last year, that if they need a little longer than four years on the development, they will be allowed to spend two more years. And a process will now be launched to facilitate how this can happen.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e521	I thank you for your answer. However, there can be no doubt that the information provided in December was incorrect. That's what the government itself says in the revised budget now. However, the reason for the cut has now varied a little. In the national budget from last autumn, the justification is the general economic situation. In the budget of the Ministry of Local Affairs, the rationale is to give municipalities ‘better time to implement the measures’. In the short version of the state budget, published by the Minister of Finance, the reason is the pressure on the construction market, that is the excuse for the postponement. Not one place in the budget documents says that the municipalities themselves have reduced their plans or that the application for grants is falling. That reason came about later. Can the Minister of Finance now say that the information was wrong, that the Stortinge built his decision on the wrong basis, that the Labour Party said in the budget debate, was it correct, and that the Government has now done full right?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e530	I've answered that. The information given in the debate on 14 December was that of the Government immediately. Then we've got new information later. These different formulations about why the postponement was needed are really the same reason: it is the general pressure, there is pressure in the construction market – and it was last year, even beyond the harvest. There's been a different situation now. And I expect that all of these things have influenced the community's assessment of how quickly they can carry out the older reform. So there is no contradiction between what was said last fall and what we now give in the revised national budget, where we then adjust back to the original plans, with the exception that the municipalities that still think they need two years more will get two more years to implement the plans.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e537	Gunhild Eyering – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e541	Minister for Social Affairs Kleppa stated that it was clear on 1 December 1998 that the municipalities were on track with their plans for the reform of the elderly. I believe the Minister of Finance can confirm that it is not the municipalities that were responsible for the restrictions proposed by the Government, but that it was a purely restrictive decision. What I want to ask the Minister of Finance about now is whether he feels confident that the municipal policy structure set up by the Government will lead to municipalities being able to carry out the elderly reform in line with the Stortinge's decision. I am aware that there are 80 municipalities that are striving to find the means to make this possible. But can the Minister of Finance now guarantee that everyone has the means to expand the care of the elderly, as decided unanimously by the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e548	I would like to repeat for the third time that the information that was given before Christmas was the information that we put in. At least for my part, I was not aware that the municipalities were in such a path that they could complete 5,800 seats a year – we have only come to know this later. As regards the municipal economic structure, it was presented in the municipal economics proposition a short time ago, so I assume that Gunhild Øyang has had the opportunity to look at it. The Minister of Finance cannot give any guarantees, because it depends on how the municipalities manage their pound, whether they have the opportunity or not. However, it should be possible to implement both the older reform and the health reform within the framework laid down in the Community economicproposition.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e555	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e558	The commitment to older people reform is so broad a political consensus that it feels that it will be quite safe to have a majority. But the problem in the municipalities is much bigger than this. Debt increases - it gets worse from 1998 to 1999. Self-payment increases, cuts in children and young people and schools increase. So the most important signal that the government has given now is that it's going to go into the year 2000 with a worse school. The Minister of Finance now confirms that they will continue to follow up the older reforms according to the techniques they have used for now. This means that children and young people still need to be affected and out of school, which means an increase in self-payment for school leave and kindergarten. Can the Minister of Finance confirm that this is the case, and is it so that this Government feels that Norway cannot afford to meet the new millennium with a good — and a better — school than we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e565	I don't want any sense of how it's going to go out of school in the case that you've now prioritised so much to bet on the elderly and health. It will be up to each municipality to manage its resources appropriately. It is true that many municipalities have a tight and difficult economy. When it became extra tight last year, it was due to several things. This was primarily due to over-expensive wage settlement — and the expensive wage settlement led to large additional payments to the CLP — and a high level of interest was due. All of this now seems to be a somewhat better development for the current and coming years. Although municipalities have a tight economy, I don't think that you have to take all the sorrows ahead. We now have hope that the municipalities manage their funds in the most reasonable way possible, and that they also take into account that they have a future generation that should have a good education.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e572	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e575	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. The dirt hole became known in the mid-1990s, not least because in this sea area between Norway and Russia, which is not regulated by any international agreements, a gigantic uncontrolled predatory fishing took place – primarily staged and implemented by the Icelandic fishing fleet. Last Sunday, Norway concluded a tripartite agreement between Norway, Russia and Iceland called for a normalisation of the relationship between these nations. Does the Minister of Fisheries think that there is a normalization of the contractual relationship, when we see that Norwegian fishermen have to give up worth 70-80 million. NOK and get another 10 pst. of this in the exchange ratio? And does the Minister of Fisheries think that this can be defended – when we see the history of this case, is this not a premiere of a nation that has been fishing for robberies in the 1990s?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e584	Let me say it this way: Of course, you can be disappointed and bitter that a fish started in the international seas that has been called the Smutthole in the Barents Sea, and that Icelandic fishermen especially participated so actively in it. But when you look at the facts in this case, Iceland has a purely international right to fish. And in the course of a few years in the 1990s it was taken about. 170,000 tonnes, which is a significant quantity, and which cannot be overlooked have been involved in damaging the cod population in the Barents Sea. So to the agreement that has been entered into. It implies that Iceland undertakes to operate a fish fully in line with Norwegian and Russian regulations and fisheries regulations. This means that Iceland abstains from fishing for cod, hay and other species in the Smutthole and shall fish for a certain quota in the Norwegian and Russian zones. For this, Iceland has provided some compensation. Taking into account the conversion factors given to individual stocks in the fisheries agreements, there is considerable compensation, up to 50 pst. Not 10 p.m., as this is claimed. And what's also important is that Iceland opens its base for Norwegian bottom fishing. In addition, Iceland has now introduced the regulations Norway has for shrimp fishing, which they have been operating in the Smutthole for a few years. Overall, the agreement means that we have had a total regulation of the Barents Sea with agreements of the most important fishing nations in the North-East Atlantic, and that is how we are in a much better situation than we were before, before the Smuttull agreement, where we could risk a significant fishing in the Smutthole again that day the cod would be present there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e593	I note that the Minister for Fisheries is on a dramatic collision course with the Norwegian fishermen, who have mentioned this agreement in line with my first post. I believe that this agreement is marked by the fact that representatives of the Norwegian fishing industry have not been sufficiently involved in the negotiations. And the Minister for Fisheries must refute my claim that this agreement is not in any way in line with the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, which quite certainly determines how third countries should behave in so-called no-man's country. Can the Minister for Fisheries confirm my claim that this agreement does not prevent third countries from entering the so-called Dirthole? And we know that Iceland has built a formidable fleet in recent years, unlike Norway – a fleet that is based under the flag of so-called third countries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e602	As regards the tripartite agreement, Iceland undertakes to introduce the Norwegian rules governing the landing and blacklisting of vessels attempting to fish in the Barents Sea. And as we have it – one might say – the agreement with all the important fishing nations in the North-East Atlantic, it means that once we have addressed these issues also with the EU and the Faeroe Islands, we will have a complete closure in the European area for the supply of catches taken in the Smutthole. This is not the way the Norwegian Fiskarlag makes it. I can only mention that the Federation of Fishermen in a previous statement has said that they considered the exchange ratio to be up to 50 pst., and that is in line with what the department has also stated. With regard to the United Nations Agreement, it is quite clear that bilateral agreements can be reached between the Parties as regards the regulation of fishing in international waters.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e611	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e615	I'm going to have some distribution policy and ask a question to Hilde Frafjord Johnson, as she has not received any questions today. The national budget is revised. According to the developing countries, their access to the world market is the most important for development. Market access is the best help for self-help. That is why it was with great regret that I could read in the revised national budget that there is a call for the introduction of the auctioning principle in the case of meat from two of the least developed countries, namely Namibia and Botswana. It means, in practice, a levy on this meat. Norwegian importers must then fight to obtain import permits on a special U.S. auction organised by the Norwegian authorities. This is a peculiar arrangement, and as far as I am aware, it is unknown in other countries. My question is whether the Minister will take the initiative to change this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e624	First of all, I would like to agree with the representative Danielsen. One of the few areas in which the Progress Party and the signatories can find some agreement concerns the importance of trade for developing countries. Therefore, I am all the more concerned to be very clear and clear about the fact that with regard to the introduction and operationalisation or the realisation of the auctioning principle, it should actually increase the volume of imports within the currently fixed level, 2700 tonnes, for the triggering of the security mechanism within the GSP scheme, i.e. the customs preference system, for the least developed countries. Our goal is to make more use of it than today. The quota is actually not used enough as the situation is now. In addition, an investigation is to be launched so that we can see how we can ensure – including under the auction principle – long-term conditions for exporters from developing countries, so that they do not suffer harm, but can ensure a long-term trading environment. And the third element is that we should have an evaluation of this duty-free GSP imports in relation to the auction system in the autumn of 2000 so that we can then see how it works in relation to trade, and especially in relation to Botswana and Namibia exporting beef to Norway. With these three important conditions, I feel that we have taken good care of the developing countries and their exports of beef to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e633	First, a comment. As the Minister is also responsible for human rights, I hope she also agrees with the strong commitment of the Progress Party to these. But back to the matter. The point here is that the Ministers of Botswana and Namibia have written letters to the Government on 31 March, because they do not want this auctioning principle to be introduced. And the experience from the past is that when import quantities of meat and vegetable hermetics from developing countries were introduced, imports fell dramatically. There was also a promising test sale of ham from Zimbabwe through several food groups that were discontinued in 1998 due to the introduction of such a principle by the Norwegian authorities. The sale has not yet started again. So I am not satisfied with the Minister's reply, and I hope that she will change what has been proposed in the revised national budget. If not, I hope that the Alliance Workers' Party, the Advance Party and perhaps the Right will help to get this right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e642	With regard to the experience gained with the auction system in the past, I would like to point out that there is just such experience that we need an investigation to see how this can be carried out in a way that means that the import does not get damaged. We don't want the imports to fall as it did before. And it is also clear from the documentation provided by the Government in the context of the agricultural settlement – in the text there – that it is intended to fully exploit the established level of imports, which represents 2 700 tonnes, before the security mechanism occurs. Our intention is to contribute to this, and we also believe that an evaluation in the autumn of 2000 can provide us with greater knowledge and basis to ensure that this happens. Should that not happen, it's clear that we have to review this again.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e649	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e652	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. On 17 February, Minister of Finance Restad in Stortinget said that we had to expect an increase in social security expenditure of up to 500 million. kr. The revised national budget, now presented, does not propose any change or increase in that item at all. Is it so that what the Minister of Finance said in February was wrong, or are we now pushing a large uncovered bill in front of us?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e659	It is true that in the Question Time – in an oral Question Time, and it is possible it was 17 February, I don't remember, but it was at least this winter – I provided information about a few challenges we could face in the revised national budget. At that time, we had relatively recent estimates from the sample that calculates likely expenditure on population protection, and unfortunately, the situation was that one had to consider a significant increase in the cost of population protection. This was not just a question of sick pay, it was also a matter of disability, etc., i.e. more items here where it would be more likely to be needed. When we worked with the revised national budget, there was a new meeting in this sample, and we got new calculations, which fortunately went in the right direction compared to what we saw in February. These estimates are now such that, to some extent, one way or the other, individual budget lines can be used. We can't ignore that it's going to add up to a certain amount of money over the year, but it can also go the opposite way. The sum of this was at least that the Government did not find it appropriate to propose any changes in the appropriations for the relevant chapters now in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e666	It is true that the same social security budget items that were the basis for a prediction of an increase in spending of half a billion kroner were discussed in the budget just a few weeks earlier. Then some of us warned about what the government did: cut 250 million. kr, allegedly on the basis that the same sample had a meeting and found that they could cut 250 million. kr. So there was a proposal from the government to reduce the appropriations by 250 million. kr in December, it was notified by the Government that the entry would break by 500 million. kr in February, and now clearly the same committee has had a new meeting. Then I have to ask: is it that we still don't know or can't estimate how much social security expenditure is going to be, that it's actually right as I said, that we're pushing an uncovered bill in front of us, and so it's budgeting a little real?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e673	We in the government have nothing more durable to build on and stick to than the calculation selection that we have now mentioned. It is true that this sample has come up with slightly different results. It is true that, in the context of the budget last autumn, they assumed that there would be a slightly smaller amount of funding than originally provided by the Government, and it is true that in February the estimates assumed that there would be a significant increase in demand. But at the last meeting, which was held in April, it was indicated that it is uncertain whether there will be any need for anything more, or whether there might even be something left over. The sum of it is at least that the Government has not found it necessary or appropriate to propose changes to the appropriations. I'd like to remind you that the chapters that this is about represent very large amounts, in the hundreds of billionaires class.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e680	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e686	There will be a wide range of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Dag Danielsen to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Culture, who has been removed. Question 2, from the representative Olaf Gedrem to the Minister for Culture, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 3, from the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 4, from the representative Dag Danielsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development and Human Rights on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been removed. Questions 12 and 13 from the representative Rolf Rekovam to the Minister for Church, Education and Research are postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Questions 14, 15 and 16 from the representatives of Thore Aksel Nistad, Steinar Bastesen and Olaf Gedrem respectively to the Minister for Transport are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 18, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister of Health, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 19, from the representative of Elsa Scarbøvik to the Minister for Development and Human Rights, will be moved and answered, at the request of the Council of State, after question 4, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question No 20, by Mr Ågot Valle to the Minister for the Environment, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 22, from the representative Jørn L. Stang to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment, on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e717	This question, from the representative Dag Danielsen to the Minister of Culture, will be answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e720	I have asked the Minister for Culture the following questions: ‘A recent study on the policy position among journalists shows that the population and journalists are on a collision course. The dissatisfaction with the neutrality of journalists is widespread in the population, according to the survey. If this dissatisfaction with the neutrality of journalists is justified, this may constitute a democratic problem. The government subsidises this industry, among other things, in order to ensure the diversity of opinion. What is the Government’s assessment of the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e734	The starting point of government media policy is to ensure freedom of expression as a prerequisite for living democracy. Through a number of instruments, the Government contributes to a diversity of independent media with a good geographical distribution. When the representative Danielsen says that ‘the government subsidizes this industry’, I suppose he refers to the press support and the VAT exemption for newspapers. It is a fundamental principle of the Government that it should intervene as actively as possible in the activities of the press. For this Government, it is unmistakable, through the direct or indirect support of newspapers, in any way to interfere in the content of the newspapers. It is even more inconceivable to assess the support for the newspapers, based on the opinions of journalists, political or other, whether these should be put on the press or not. The alternative, and that is what Danielsen's representative is after in this context, is that if journalists have different political views than the population, support for the newspapers should be abolished. However, the government has no faith that if the market alone gets rough, journalistic attitudes will more or less automatically coincide with those of the population. On the contrary, we believe that today's variety of newspapers, which are maintained, among other things. through the support for the press and the exemption from VAT, contribute greatly to the dissent and debate we have today. In conclusion, I would like to say that if it is the case that the political positions of journalists are not identical to the political positions of the population, and if this is a problem, then it is the problem of the press and the press who may have to do something about it, not the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e753	I thank the Council of State for the answer. One important point here is that one of the reasons for the press support is to ensure a diversity of opinion. What you do is you intervene in a market with subsidies, and in that way, you distort a free form of opinion. One consequence of this is that there have been very few new additions of newspapers in Norway. Subsidising this industry as it is today helps to keep this industry segmented. My view is that the main purpose of the reason for the press support is not achieved – that it is also used with geographical distribution, etc. I had hoped that this would help to make the government's policies in this area more critical.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e762	It is, of course, perfectly legitimate to discuss the press support. What I responded to was the link between the discussion on press support and the possible attitudes of journalists and the relationship between these attitudes and views of the population. It's a completely unacceptable mixture. It's really breaking the basic principles and all the values that are in our Constitution and on which the entire Western tradition is based. We can't do that. Once a question has been raised as to whether the press support has prevented a diversity, my view is that it has not done so. It is with pride that I think I can say that I live in a country and even are the Council of State in a country where we have the range of newspapers and printed publications that we have. By going through these publications, and not least following developments after they've become more party independent over the last 20 years, I think I can say that they have a capacity to tell us about evenly and differently in a way that we as elected people just have to take with us. It's part of democracy that it has to be like this.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e769	Here I must disagree with the Council of State. As long as a point here is that the attitudes color the production, and that admits 62 pst. by the journalists and a whole of 75 pst. In my opinion, according to the opinion survey, it is a problem to maintain a press subsidy that helps to secure the current market situation. My opinion and wish would then be to look more critically at the press support as it is today, and whether it works according to the assumptions. I am thinking in particular of the assumption to ensure the diversity of opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e774	Luckily, the diversity of opinion is neither regulated by the representative Danielsen nor by me. It is regulated by the spirit power within the individual citizen. I am of those who, with great fascination, have been concerned about how it is, among other things. evolves online, i.e. the Internet, and how we see that the new electronic media provide increased leeway, not only for the traditional media, but also for others. I have no concern about the inconsistency. Having seen the creative imagination that is present in creating different publications and contacts to people, I have no concern for this spirit force. It is an unruly force that is so violent that even the representative Danielsen's possible irritation over the press support cannot stop it. It's so strong that it just has to be included as a useful thing. And even though I'm often annoyed by what's in a newspaper, the point is that we're there because sometimes we're going to annoy and enjoy. It is the challenge of journalists to keep the coast and control themselves. That's what I think they're doing. But I'm not going to go into it any further, because both the representative Danielsen and I have an opportunity to do so when the Freedom of Speech Commission gives its opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e801	These questions have been postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e807	This question, from the representative Dag Danielsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development and Human Rights on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e810	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘The Party of Foreign Ministers has proposed that assistance to refugees and displaced persons from Kosovo should be channelled to the neighbourhoods because the assistance will be more beneficial there. In addition, the political pressure for a solution to the conflict is strengthened. It is now reported from the media that the organisation organising the work on behalf of the UN is in the process of going bankrupt due to a lack of support from donor countries. What is the Government’s assessment of the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e819	The UN's work on the Kosovo crisis is, in the Government's view, very important. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR, has been designated by Secretary-General Kofi Annan as the central coordinating body for the humanitarian work in the area. The World Food Programme is primarily responsible for providing and distributing food to refugees. Other UN organisations are also actively involved in the humanitarian work, such as: UNICEF and WHO. In order to improve coordination, the UN Secretary-General recently appointed a separate Regional Coordinator for all UN operations in the Balkans, based in Skopje. The need for aid to refugees in Kosovo, other parts of former Yugoslavia and neighbouring countries is very great. The government has therefore decided both to provide assistance in the region through the United Nations system, on the one hand through non-governmental organisations and also to accept refugees to Norway. This is fully in line with the clear recommendations made by the UNHCR. Assistance in the neighbourhood must be combined with the removal of refugees to other countries. The government is aware of the financial difficulties of the UN system, and in particular the UNHCR, in its work for the Kosovo Albanian refugees. This is very regrettable. The ongoing humanitarian operation is one of the most expensive UN ever carried out. At the same time, donor countries have been reluctant to contribute to funding. Many contributions have been earmarked to limit the flexibility of the UN in their use. In addition, the payment of the commitments is very late. Although I am now responding on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I will not fail to refer to my conversation with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, Sadako Ogata, yesterday in Bergen. It was found that the situation for UNHCR has now improved. The organisation has received an undertaking of 83 pst. of the need, and contributions from heavy and central donors are now beginning to enter. However, in a relatively short period of time, a new coordinated appeal from the UN organisations will have to be put in place in view of efforts towards winter. On the Norwegian side, the United Nations has received a total of 73.4 million. kr to its humanitarian operation as a result of the Kosovo crisis. Of these, among other things: Over 40 million. kr went to UNHCR and approx. Twenty million. to the World Food Programme. We have also provided personnel for UN field operations in Albania and Macedonia. Norway is in close contact with the UNHCR and other UN organisations on the humanitarian situation, and we are considering ongoing Norwegian action in the light of their priorities. From the Norwegian side, we also welcome the increased UN exposure to finding a peaceful solution to the conflict. In this context, the work of the Security Council is central. It was therefore important for the Council last week to be able to gather on a resolution on the humanitarian situation. This suggests that the Council will continue to be active in finding a solution to the conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e834	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm glad to hear that the acute situation has improved, although I'm concerned to hear that it doesn't seem to be in order in the long term. The progress party went into Stortinget, as we know, to increase the appropriations from the Norwegian side in the neighbourhoods to 300 million. kr. My question is how the Minister will assess the situation in the future, whether the guarantees and promises that have come from the other countries will solve this problem in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e841	What we need now is that all the commitments given are reflected in funds into the UNHCR account. So it's starting to happen. The second thing that is very important is that the international humanitarian organisations, both UNHCR and the others, are now planning different scenarios for the development of the areas around Kosovo. That means you have to plan for a relatively large relief operation. I would like to show that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has made a statement, among other things. Yesterday that the refugees must come home before winter begins, and that is of course the goal. However, it is clear that one needs to plan for a very large relief operation, where significant amounts will also have to be allocated to both humanitarian aid organisations and other actors. What's difficult now is to get a full overview of the need. It works one way, and a meeting on 27 May between different donors and actors will, among other things, be held. could clarify more precisely what needs are being talked about here.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e846	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I regret to say that I do not feel reassured by what I hear, among other things. This is about the winter. I hope that everything will be all right before winter comes in, but unfortunately I don't have much faith in that. I'm afraid that winter may seem like Christmas Eve on the wreath, just as the refugee situation after the bombing started seemed to come as Christmas Eve on the wreath of the international aid community. I am afraid that the policy advocated by the Progress Party requires Norway to channel a greater degree of its assistance to the neighbourhoods in order to help far more people than you can do at home has proved to be right. Our party leader, Carl I. Hagen, has already called on 25 March’s Secretary of State Vollebæk to take the initiative in this matter as soon as possible. What will the Government now do to follow up to remedy the situation down there?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e853	I will reject the fact that the situation came as the Christmas evening on the crumble of all actors, but I think that the magnitude of the refugee disaster – the scale – was something that hardly anyone could predict. So to how we're going to meet the situation. I mentioned this meeting on 27 May. All actors will be present, including the European Union, the World Bank and the humanitarian aid organisations, as far as I know. There will also be planning for both the emergency and the longer-term. I myself attended a meeting of the IMF/World Bank in Washington recently, where this with long-term planning focused on development and larger and longer-term operations was the topic. There is international coordination and planning and Norway is playing an active role. Then I will strongly reject that you should not help in accepting refugees. The UNHCR's clear advice is that this should also be done, as well as that we should consider new appropriations from the Norwegian side after these meetings have now taken place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e862	Then we go to question 19.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e868	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Development and Human Rights: ‘In the course of 100 days in 1994, almost 1 million were committed. people killed in Rwanda. A United Nations court is established in Arusha, Tanzania, to bring those suspected of participation in the genocide to justice. What has been done by Norway to support this court and work on human rights and reconciliation in Rwanda?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e877	The genocide in Rwanda in April/May 1994 is one of the most cruel crimes against humanity in recent times. In these Kosovo times it may be worth reflecting on this too. It is estimated that around 800,000 people were killed during this period. Norway decided at an early stage to provide comprehensive resources to help bring the culprits to account. Therefore, Norway supported the establishment of its own international court of law in Rwanda. We continue to support this court, through political and financial support and personnel. I've also visited the court myself. Unfortunately, the Court of Justice has had some administrative problems and some lack of efficiency. The Court’s budget was far too low in relation to the tasks it had been set to perform. Audit reports also revealed critical aspects. From the Norwegian side we have several times mentioned these weaknesses and asked for them to be cleaned up, among other things. in the case of increased budgets and administrative reforms. According to reports, the Court now works better than before. However, we will follow developments closely and contribute to ensuring that it works as well as possible. We owe that to the victims of the genocide. On 29 May 1999, a former Norwegian law judge to the Rwanda Court of Justice shall stand as judge for four years. I am convinced that he will impart valuable competence to the court. Norway is, among other things, Denmark and Sweden, among the few countries that have offered to accept sentences for compensation. Norway is also one of the few countries that have adopted national legislation to ensure the follow-up to all kinds of requests by the Rwandan Court of Justice. Norway has on several occasions highlighted the concerns that so few countries have expressed their willingness to conclude such cooperation arrangements with the Court. Both the Rwandan and Yugoslavian courts have been able to detect and condemn serious crimes, including genocide. This work is relevant locally, as part of the work on peace and reconciliation, and globally by contributing to the development of the international legal order. No one shall be able to stand indifferent and be held liable for such crimes. The second element of our efforts in Rwanda is to support measures to alleviate distress, promote peace and reconciliation, democratic development and respect for human rights. In line with this, we support actions at both national and local level, on the one hand through the UN and the Red Cross channels and on the other through Norwegian non-governmental organisations on the other. In 1998, we granted 63.7 million from Norway. directly to actions in Rwanda. In addition, 77.8 million were used. kr, primarily through the UN system, for regional actions. This also includes measures in Rwanda. We're adding up to a corresponding level in 1999. We have supported the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights' work in Rwanda both financially and with personnel. Rwanda has now set up its own national human rights commission, and possible Norwegian support for it is under assessment. Norwegian non-governmental organisations are the main channel for our direct assistance to Rwanda, and these organisations are doing a good and important job in the country. Work includes, inter alia: health and water measures, which benefit all groups in society and which are, in fact, also essential for people to live and work together in peace. In addition, other forms of trust and trust are emerging, with local organisations and institutions being key partners. Norway has also contributed, which I myself have witnessed when visiting the country. It is about helping to prevent the 1994 history from repeating itself.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e896	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's just that you have to learn from what's happened in the past that we want. It is then reassuring to hear that Norway supports this international court of Rwanda and that this work is followed up. It is also good that Norway exercises pressure on other countries to conclude cooperation arrangements with the Court of Justice. However, we do not hear much about this work in Norway. It will probably be gone in the sound of the war in Yugoslavia. But we must not forget the rest of the world, where there is now an important work going on just to prevent such genocides as we have seen in Rwanda. This is preventive work. I would like to have developed a little more concrete impression that the Council of State has of the work of the Court of Justice and how this affects the work of reconciliation – that is, what is going on.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e905	The Rwandan Court of Justice is located in Arusha. It was not without reason that it was located outside Rwanda as those in custody in Arusha are among the most central behind the genocide in 1994. Fortunately, we have also been given a ruling, so that, in our opinion, progress is in the right direction as regards the proceedings of the Court of Justice. And it has a preventive effect, there is no doubt about it. Nevertheless, I will not fail to point out that perhaps one of the major dilemmas we face is the national prosecution. We're familiar with the fact that it's approx. 123 000 people related to participation in the genocide in the custody of Rwandan prisons. It has been a dilemma that the main culprits charged with the United Nations Court of Justice should be given better facilities, a fairer trial and lower penalties than those charged with less serious crimes in the national courts. These are issues that we address and that we are trying to do something about the legal certainty of the national courts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e912	I understand it so that the Council of State follows closely up this. Kofi Annan said that Rwanda's tragedy is the tragedy of the world, and you can ask yourself what you can do to prevent such genocide. At least it is important that we now do what we can to achieve reconciliation in a country full of hatred and guilt. But we know that many people in Rwanda feel betrayed by the outside world, and that there is now a need for basic work in the country to create new attitudes in people. Many organisations, as was said, are engaged, but they have limited resources. When we know what resources are now being used elsewhere, not least in the Balkans, it is important that we also follow up here. And non-governmental organisations are an important channel. What does the Council of State think they can be used for in the work of reconciliation and in the work of taking human rights seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e919	From the government side, we follow the situation closely, and we are also prepared to see if we can improve the human rights situation and the security situation in Rwanda in ways other than what we have already done. It may also be paradoxical that the security situation has improved partly because of Rwanda's military involvement in the Democratic Republic of Congo, because one then has been able to control some of the militia groups that have raided and created uncertainty in the area. But let me answer the representative's questions. We are now considering, as I said, supporting the work of the Human Rights Commission. We're going to be in touch with Human Rights Commissioner Mary Robinson about this and see how we can contribute. That's the one. The second is that we have already had a lot of contact with non-governmental organisations. For example, an important field will be: be the work of the churches. The big paradox is that church officials, priests, and the churches themselves were very central players in the genocide. One of the most important areas of reconciliation must be to contribute to the reconciliation of themselves in the further work. We also have contacts there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e926	Then we go back to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e932	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘In 1998, the Commission decided to investigate the implementation of a shipbuilding tunnel pilot project through the State of Stockholm. How far has this investigation come, and when will it be completed?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e941	A central point of the Government proposal in the St. Report. No 34 for 1997-98, on the implementation of a shipbuilding tunnel pilot project through the State of the City, a pilot project should ensure the best possible decision-making basis for a possible decision on the construction of the tunnel. Sogn and Fjordane County Municipality and More and Romesdal County Municipality are among those who have engaged early as drivers in order to realize a tunnel through the City State. The county authorities have previously applied for funds for the pre-projection of the tunnel. The government therefore provided for joint financing of the project between the county and the state. The Ministry of Fisheries therefore considers it important that regional and local authorities be properly involved in the project. This is also important in order to make use of the investigations already carried out for a local and regional shipbuilding tunnel. The Ministry considers that this can also help to ensure the best possible transfer of competences from local teams to the pre-project. The Ministry of Fisheries has launched a dialogue with the City Ship Tunnel Steering Group, where both Sogn and Fjordane County Municipality and More and Romesdal County Municipality are represented. This dialogue will continue with the county councils directly to provide a basis for setting up, inter alia: the organisation and progress plan of the pilot project, as well as the sharing of costs between the State and the county municipalities. Based on the information available to the Ministry today, the pre-project could be launched in 2000. However, the final date for the project will be difficult to comment on today. However, the most important thing must be to get a final result where all aspects relating to safety, the environment and not least the economy have been identified.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e954	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have to say, I have a sense that this is almost like starting over again. Now the state council says that you want Sogn and Fjordane and More and Romsdal county councils together with the state to go in and make a preliminary project, and that was the year 2000. Isn't the Council aware that much of this work has been done in the past through the company Stad Schifftunnel A/S, and that they had practically completed a preliminary project, but lacked little to complete it? In the group now set up with representatives from the county and state, will any representatives from the town of Stadstunnel A/S be included, or will they not?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e961	Whether an investigation carried out by Stad Sverigestunnel A/S is complete is first obtained from the State by taking a full review of the material available and looking at what may need to be done by new investigations. What I see as important in this context is that in such a large project, both in terms of costs and also the fact that it is really the first tunnel project to be developed that we know about, the investigation should be thorough enough, so that one cannot come to the conclusion afterwards that a project has been started without having examined all the aspects of implementation and operation, not least. We therefore believe that we should take the time needed, and there is no disagreement between the department and the county councils that there should be cooperation between the county councils and the department to investigate the project.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e966	I am aware that it will take time, and that you should be careful when investigating such a large project. But there are companies, including Road cover, which has been up there and looked at it, and which will give a fixed price to first create a car tunnel, and then they will come with a fixed price for the rest. Has it been examined whether to go in with private companies and ask about this? A lot of this is figured out, so why take so long?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e971	I think it is in the nature of the matter that when there is a project for which the State is to have the financial and safety responsibility, the State should have it investigated for its part, so that it is certain that a project which is not linked to both safety and other aspects of its implementation, which can lead to high costs. We do not know that there are private operators who have investigated and will implement the project with their own guarantee. What has been mentioned by the representative of Nistad seems to be related to the progress made towards the implementation of a project and the manner in which it is to be implemented. That's something you get to come back to. We expect that private entrepreneurs will be an important part of an investigation into implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e979	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The Ministry of Fisheries has closed off fishing for conventional vessels along the coast of North Norway. The conventional fleet is the one that can carry out a sustainable harvest of resources. What is the reason why the Ministry of Fisheries, against advice from its own professional body and the fisheries organisations, has excluded the conventional fleet, while a selected group of seine vessels has been given a monopoly on the exploitation of seismic resources?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e988	I am pleased that this question has been asked. This gives me an opportunity to correct the impression that some actors have tried to create from the situation in fisheries. I would like to start with a little bit about the regulation arrangements for fishing for sein north of 62°N. The sieve quota represents 137 500 tonnes for the current year. This quantity is distributed between the conventional, notch and trawl gear groups. One-third of each of these. The authorities mainly base the decisions on the distribution on advice from decisions taken by the Norwegian Fiskarlag, as well as the recommendations of the Board of Regulators. A quantity of 4000 tonnes is transferred from the group quota for tuna seiner seiner seiner seiner seiner to conventional gears to cover the fishing of tuna seiner seiner with conventional gear. The allocation of the allowance between the gear teams is determined at the beginning of each regulatory year. In the case of senot fishing, this fishing was temporarily prohibited before 1 May 1999. The background to this was that authorities should have time to assess the need for participating fisheries regulation with this type of gear. It may be mentioned that the Set State Council decided to impose a limit on the participant for the fishing for sein with a note north of 62°N in 1999 for vessels from 13 metres above and above. No participant limit was introduced for vessels less than 13 metres. The decision on the imposition of the Participant Limitation was taken after the implementation of a consultation round where the views were very close. Conventional gear fishing started on 1 January 1999 and was regulated with three period quotas. In view of the early catch of a significant proportion of the quantity intended for fishing in the first period, direct fishing was stopped on 14 February 1999 for vessels less than 28 metres fishing with conventional gear. At the same time, the catchment area was increased from 10 pst. to 40 pst. for this group in the case of fishing for other species. As a result of the excessive overfishing in the first period, it was decided by the end of April not to open up a direct fishing operation for the conventional fleet of less than 28 metres in the period from 1 May 1999 to 31 August 1999. The by-catch path has been set to 25 pst for this period. for this fleet group. In other words, the link claimed between the stop in the direct fishing with conventional gear and the implementation of senot fishing is not real. There is reason to stress that the monopoly which the representative Myrvoll chooses to refer to senot fishing which concerns only the share of the sea resources that was decided at the beginning of the regulatory year to be included in the fishing for seining by sea and not the quantity reserved for other gear groups. It is a fact that there is no quantity to keep it directly fished for sailing at all times regardless of the type of gear it is about. If one were to keep conventional gear engaged directly throughout the year, it would have to be done at the expense of quantities allocated to other gear groups. I must remind you here that the authorities have a responsibility for the participants in all the tool groups. Finally, I would like to mention that in 1998 it was decided, with effect from 1 March 1999, to introduce increased minimum targets for seas north of 62°N. The new minimum targets were introduced on the advice of both the Institute of Marine Research and the Directorate of Fisheries and are intended to result in a more favourable tax treatment of the sea so as to increase the long-term exploitation of the stock.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1011	The councils opened up by saying that he was pleased with the question. I'm not as happy with the answer. I'm excited if the council is pleased with the follow-up questions he's now going to have. Governments avoided that regulation of fisheries is not least about applying for sustainable resource management and that regulation should have that effect. By giving priority to the senet fleet, the Minister of Fisheries ensures that the sea is harvested as small fish, which means poor resource management. It is then sold at a low price because it is not attractive in the market. Now the state council showed that the minimum measure has increased, and he's to be commended for that. At the same time, the net fleet continues to work on the exception from the minimum targets. It must be poor resource management. If the regulation had opened up the coastal fleet with conventional gear, juxtaposition and yarn, it could fill the quota with half as many individuals at twice the price. Wouldn't it be a wise resource manager? The next question is: What professional establishments have supported today's regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1020	Let me say that I do not agree with the claims made by the representative Myrvoll. Firstly, long and old traditions in the Norwegian fishing industry have been fished senotically. It is not up to the regulatory authority of the Council of Fisheries States to automatically exclude certain gear groups from a fishing operation. What should also be clear is that if we have banned senot fishing and transferred resources to conventional gears, we are not sure that we have managed to maintain free fishing throughout the year for this group. The regulation is necessary for the purposes of resources. I expect that the representative Myrvoll, who represents SV, sees the need to take care of resources and sustainable management, and that there is therefore a need for intervention regulation in all fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1025	I see the need for regulation and I am very concerned about sustainable development. The Council of State did not answer the question of whether we would have achieved more sustainable development by prioritising the coastal fleet with conventional gear. He said I made a lot of claims. Is it a claim that the net fleet is exempted from the minimum objectives? Is it a claim that it fishes small seas in relation to what the coastal fleet would have done? He did not answer any questions about which professional establishments he can refer to that have supported the regulation that has now been introduced. I have some documentation from the Directorate of Fisheries in Nordland and Troms, and after what I see there, there is a strong warning against the regulation that the department has. The same goes for fisheries organisations. So I ask again, who is the Council of State listening to? Why is he ignoring his own faculties and fisheries organisations in this matter? What professional advice does he use?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1034	The claim that you do not follow the advice of the trade unions is not correct. It is precisely the subjects of the Ministry that have recommended minimum targets, and we do not have a system of exemptions from the minimum targets. We've set different minimum targets along the coast, which it's been all along, but all the minimum targets were increased last year. What is done, which is done at all times, is that organisations are given their advice, which goes to the Board of Regulators. And the Board of Regulators, together with the Director of Fisheries, gives its recommendations to the Department. It is the recommendations that have mainly been followed. Let me say that what has been done, in the first place, by cuts made by the Ministry in addition to the recommendations, is that we have reduced the maximum quotas for senotic vessels in order to limit, in that way, the output of individual vessels from fishing and the interest in senotic fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1044	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘A letter from the Ministry of Justice dated 23 October 1998 states that ‘the Ministry assumes that persons who are not willing to comply with the central control provisions of the Arms Act in the circumstances could be considered unfit to hold firearms’. Does this mean that individuals who would verify the legality of Norwegian law, for example in relation to the Basic Law § 102, could be considered unfit to hold firearms?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1053	By letter of 23 October 1998, the Ministry of Justice assumed that ‘persons who are not willing to comply with the provisions of the central control of the Arms Act in the circumstances may be considered unfit to hold firearms’. The background to the ministry’s letter was an enquiry asking for information on the effects of refusing police access to their homes to carry out checks on the individual owner of the weapon. The Ministry of Justice replied to this enquiry, as has already been mentioned, by the Ministry's letter of 23 October 1998. Paragraph 27(a) of the Arms Act was adopted by Stortinget in the spring of 1998. The provision reads as follows: ‘The firearms or a vital weapon part, as well as the ammunition, shall be securely stored in a locked position. The king lays down detailed rules for storage. Such rules may also apply to firearms, weapon parts and ammunition as referred to in Section 5. In the case of a private person, such control may only be carried out after prior notification.’;» As a result of the amendment of the law, the Ministry of Justice issued a circular on 16 June 1998 including: guidelines for the conduct of police checks on the storage of weapons and ammunition. The Ministry has reason to believe that the withdrawal of the coat of arms card is permitted in cases where an owner of the weapon is not willing to comply with the control provisions adopted by the Stortinget. Otherwise, the police would be ineffective if a person was reluctant and opposed to complying with the control provisions put in place to safeguard the interests of society. The fact that a negative decision could be followed where he refuses to comply with control measures imposed is also common in other areas of management and reflects a general principle of administrative law. If someone wants to try out the legality of the Second paragraph of Section 27 of the Arms Act on police control of the private storage of civil weapons by bringing an action claiming that the provision is illegal, such an action would of course not mean that he is unfit to hold weapons. However, when the question is raised in this form, I must be allowed to stress the fact of course: it follows from our legal order that everyone affected by an administrative decision has the opportunity to examine the validity of the decision before the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1075	Like 800,000 Norwegian hunters and shooters, I also feel that many of these provisions are extremely unclear. When a person is, as the Council of State says in its answer, the quarrel was – ‘malicious’ was probably the word he used – we shall of course meet it with reactions. Then, at the same time, he says that, of course, an appeal as to whether the provision is non-constitutional means that he is considered to be ‘unsuited to hold weapons’. Then I must be allowed to ask quite specifically: Is it for Norwegian law to try the legality of certain control provisions in relation to the Basic Law §102 within the framework of what the Council of State defines as ‘irregular’, or is it not?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1082	The representative has some rhetorical grip that amazes me a lot, so let me be very clear. Law is given in order to be able to follow. There are two ways in which anyone is free to challenge the law: by choice, by making sure that the Storting is composed in such a way that the law in which one disagrees, changes, or by trying out the law of the courts. The law is, of course, followed until the law is amended. Any other practice is to be regarded as civil disobedience. This should be the answer in principle. It is, of course, never painful within the framework of our democracy to fight about what is legitimate. However, what is legitimate after the decision of the Storting is the case until other decisions have been taken, either by the Storting amending the decision or by the fact that, in the course of judicial proceedings, there are opinions which are absolutely essential for the decision or its practice. So connecting these relationships is not right. Making full use of civil rights, it's never a ghastly thing.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1089	I guess we got a relatively general investigation of naturalities instead of an answer, which I think Norwegian shooters would like to have. I think I'm just going to follow up on saying that we had a round of firearms in the interrogation not very long ago, and then the Council of State stated that he had the greatest confidence in the Norwegian shooters and their actors, and that he would maintain and develop the best contact with this environment. I just have to be allowed to see that so far it has emerged that it has not been successful. There is nothing I am getting so many enquiries about – from citizens who, in my best opinion, I perceive as among the most law-abiding we have here in this country – as the enforcement of the Arms Act. We don't only have the decision of the Storting; the Council of State is probably aware that there is also something called regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1096	Of course, I have deep respect for the fact that the representative Hernæs both receives and carries them on. But the representative and I have one thing in common. in writing. - (FR) yesterday's debate in Stortinget: The representative is very concerned that Norwegian law is being followed and a Minister of Justice would of course be on that principle. I quoted a rule of law in my answer. There is, of course, no connection between the fact that we have a law and the fact that someone disagrees with it and can challenge the law through treatment in the Stortinget or by other means, through the courts. I've made that clear, that's one of course right. Then I can also inform you that in the next few days there will be an invitation to a meeting with the shooter organisations one of the first days in June. We will discuss several questions, including: the weapon name path, but otherwise provide an opportunity to exchange views that may be of mutual interest, of which both the ministry and the organisations are concerned. Then there will be such a forum that I also understand that the representative has been concerned about earlier questions about this, and on similar questions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1108	I will be allowed to ask another question to the Minister of Justice: ‘A letter from State Attorney Lasse Qvigstad dated 9 March 1999 to the courts of Oslo City Attorney's District states, inter alia, that the number of legal days per person is: The Advocate General will be reduced by 20-25 p.m. and that ‘from the autumn of 1999 onwards, there will have to be a significant refusal to make a decision’. How does the Council explain this, for example in relation to the 30 million allocation? to the courts more than in the Government’s proposal, and what will the Council of State do to maintain the level of activity in the courts?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1117	In the context of the 1999 budget procedure of the Grand Duchy, it was hijacked. 405 Lawyers' rights and cap. 410 Laws of the Land and the Municipalities strengthened by 6 million, respectively. NOK 14 million. kr, i.e. with a total of 20 million. kr. This addition to the Government's draft budget was earmarked for reducing the time taken to settle cases before the courts. A direct consequence of this reinforcement is that the courts can increase the review rate, which will immediately affect the functioning of the prosecution authority. The Ministry is in dialogue with Oslo State Attorneys, among others. on the resource situation of the office and additional resources have already been allocated to the office. Oslo State Attorneys will continue to be given additional resources, so that the office does not become a bottleneck in the criminal justice chain.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1128	In principle, and in its form, this is an excellent answer. It is only the chine book that it is in direct contradiction to what Lasse Qvigstad says in a letter of 9 March, which I just referred to in the question, where he writes that there will be a reduction of 20-25 p.m., and that it is already clear that «from the autumn of 1999 there will have to be considerable refusal to make any re-examinations». Now, of course, the Council of State, if he wants to, can, with background in particular. the debate we had yesterday, saying that this is a matter relating to his duties, which he does not want to get closer to the Storting. But if he should still want to tell me a little bit more about it, it might be interesting to hear when these funds were introduced. What has the Council of State done to inform the Attorney General accordingly, so that we can expect a letter that withdraws Lasse Qvigstad here writes?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1135	This letter of 9 March was one of the first things I knew when I became a State Council in the Ministry of Justice, and it is linked to the balance of the criminal case chain. Therefore, questions were also raised about how to strengthen the situation, and the dialogue that I expressed in my answer was conducted. This will include: also in the revised national budget that we propose strengthening Oslo State Attorney's office. And with the information that I have, this should be enough so that it shouldn't be a bottleneck. I will, of course, actively follow it up if it should be different against assumption. This is why, among other things, it will: on Friday, a meeting will be held in the Department, where different situations will be discussed on a broader basis in the criminal case chain, in order to be absolutely sure that there is a pressure on what has been the intent of the Storting, and to ensure that, in daily work, no bottlenecks arise. This is a question that has my greatest attention, and I have deep commitment to that it's going to work. Among other things, I have I have the impression that there is a broad willingness to move well into the criminal justice chain, so that there are no quantum discounts by withdrawing treatment time.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1142	It is good that the Council of State has this high level of preparedness in relation to the entire criminal case chain. But we have to make sure that we don't move the stopper from one place to another. We know, among other things: per 1 000 IU/ kg/ kg/ kg/ kg/ kg/ kg/ kg/ kg/ kg/ kg/ kg/ kg/ kg/ kg/ kg/ kg/ kg/ kg/ kg Today, there are seven uncontested judges in Gulating Lawyers' Court. It seems that the police don't tell me they're overrejected – to say it that way. If it is that the scarce resources we have in the justice sector are now being transferred from the police to the prosecution authorities, for example, possibly also to the judges, it is difficult for me to say that the solution is clearly in the best interests of the entire criminal justice chain. If the Council of State believes that he has full control of this within the budget role and with a reluctance to participate in adding the total funds to the justice sector, we will have to follow this case, as he says, very carefully from the Storting side, although it should be unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1147	It's always great that Stortinget follows important things. But there's a danger if there's a big business developing. I'm not going to say that's the case on this point, because I don't see the representative like that. Justice in Oslo Byrett commented, inter alia: aspects of the criminal procedure, where he said for his part that it is very important to strengthen individual posts, to see the whole chain in a context. I can see that it's the representative's intention. At least it's my intention to understand him like this. And that's my opinion that that's how I want to manage the funds I have at my disposal. I just want to repeat that I am following this very intensely because I see it as very important. There is nothing that will break the trust in the legal system more than that there will be undue waiting time from a case being raised to the police, until charges are brought, until the case has been dealt with in the court and until it is relevant with compensation. The safest way to fight crime is to have floated into the criminal chain, and it has very strong attention from my side. It has to be just like this when you're a minister of justice in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1159	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘It is claimed through the media that organised black exchange trading of tickets at various events is becoming a problem. In Denmark, there is a law prohibiting such organised activities, and recently a ‘company’ was the subject of a judgment that enforces the ban. In the light of developments in this market, would it be natural for Norway to consider the need for a similar law?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1168	In Denmark, a 1919 law says: ‘The resale of tickets for public pleasures by which the seller seeks profit shall be prohibited.’ The Ministry of Justice has been in contact with the Danish Ministry of Culture, which administers the law. The Ministry of Culture could not indicate to what extent the law was being enforced or enforced in practice. In Norway, we do not have any legal provisions that specifically affect the black market trading of tickets. The problem with organised black market trading is often that the prices of organised trade can be excessive. This affects consumers. Organizers have also stated that such trade is not desirable. Section 2 of the Price Action Act prohibits, inter alia: the taking or charging of unfair prices. To the extent that the problem is unreasonably high prices, this provision may, in the circumstances, affect the black market trading of tickets. This provision is enforced by the Competition Authority, which is governed by the Ministry of Labour and Administration. Black exchange trading of tickets for various forms of entertainment is not a new phenomenon. In my view, it is primarily the organized business that can be problematic. Here one should follow developments. In order to demonstrate the need for action to halt adverse developments, this should be further considered. The competition authority is also aware of the issue.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1189	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which shows that he sees where the problem is. These activities are organised. Not only do the prices become unreasonable, the purchaser is also not informed that the product they order will be 100 pst. more expensive than the name of the ticket. When you tell by phone that residual tickets are so expensive because there are no regular tickets left, you move on the edge of the truth. For the remaining tickets, according to the black market seller, are the tickets you have left, even though they are actually several hundred ordinary tickets. In this way, the consumer, the buyer, the customer, is driven behind the light. Does the Council of State think that the Competition Authority should take a closer look at the issue in relation to Section 2 of the Price Action Act?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1198	The representative and I agree that it is organised trade that is crucial. I've explained that the problem isn't that we don't like this, but that's how we're going to get a chance in practice to prevent it. I have shown some provisions that may be relevant to use, and I will take the initiative, among other things. in relation to the bodies concerned – which may be the consumer authorities and competition authorities – to see if the provisions we have can be used in a practical way to do what we can to stop this. I will take such initiatives and thus follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1205	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for his reply. A problem related to organised black market trading is that it operates as a legitimate industry because it is not prohibited. But the buyers stand out and tell how they feel cheated, because the assumptions they bought the tickets from did not turn out to be true. Then the claim becomes opposed to the claim. When you have a desire to be present at the event at the same time, there is little else to do for the customer than to pay the black exchange company's demand. An additional problem is, of course, that the first-time sellers are suspected because the black exchange companies facilitate a mix-up in terms of both name and telephone number. I was going to ask how the Council of State would follow developments in the organised black market industry, but I guess I've already got an answer to that – if not the Council of State will further elaborate it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1216	I made it clear in my main response that I wanted to follow developments, and I have also received enquiries from the consumer authorities, who ask me to assess how we can legally intervene against this. And once we have received such an enquiry from the consumer authorities and it has otherwise traveled here, I will of course go into it. I want to, regardless of whether it's going to be a new or a different legal regulation, also look at the provisions we have, and I want to work in two ways – to clarify my answer further.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1225	I have the following questions to the Council of State: «The country conference on the country's nearby radios is concerned about the future of the radio bingo. There is uncertainty about the renewal of the authorisation to organise radiobingo next year if nothing is done about the law. The Landesconference hopes for a law decision that will not threaten the existence of local radio in Norway. In the context of permits for next year, will the Council of State ensure that near-radio stations are authorised, so that some are not subject to any peculiar interpretations of today’s diffuse lottery law?’»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1234	Although near-radio is considered to be a societal purpose, the issue of lottery will also depend on the ownership structure of the radio. The lottery market is reserved under the Lottery Act § 6 for nationwide, regional or local organisations or associations which, in their activities, pursue a humanitarian or societal purpose. In recent years, the trend has been towards media companies, such as newspapers, companies, banks, municipalities and individuals, purchasing shares in the ownership companies of radios. Already in circular G-75/92, the Ministry has given detailed instructions on the examination of applications for authorisation to hold radiobingo. In the circular it is shown, among other things: that a purely commercial undertaking or a local radio network operating as a traditional limited liability company or similar would not be able to obtain a lottery permit for the income of the radio. In circular G-5/99, published on 15 March 1999, the Ministry of Justice gave a clarification of the applicable law. Its name is, among other things,\t\t You can change the ‘In accordance with established practice, no lottery licence shall be granted for private economic measures or associations for such purposes, as provided for in paragraph 1. the processors of the Lottery Act, Ot.prp. No 58 on Lotteries Law, etc. [[1993-95]] s10. This implies that individuals or commercial enterprises such as media companies including newspapers, as well as companies, businesses and banks do not comply with the requirements of the Lottery Act § 6 cf. § 5, first paragraph, even if the revenue from the bingo is returned to the nearby radio/television.» With this circular, the Ministry has made it clear that purely commercial and wholly owned private businesses cannot expect to be authorised for radiobingo. In the circular, a very reasonable period has been provided for the conversion of the ownership structure if the concessionaire does not meet the conditions for renewal. The deadline is 31 December 1999. The Ministry of Justice is currently reviewing the rules of the Lottery Act. In this context, the Ministry will review the rules on bingo in close proximity radio and television.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1256	I was not satisfied with the answer from the Council of State, but I must nevertheless thank you for that. In Norway, well over half of local radios depend on radiobingo revenues. These local radios are just as important to the community as local radios. The difference is that local radios do not receive press support, and the simple message to politicians and legislators is that they are asking for schemes that allow them to make money for normal operation. This is the main reason why those who operate and work in the local radios are busy with radio bingo. The great horror of the near-radio people is that more than Bodø police districts will deny local radios in their area bingo tolerance. In Bodø, all owners have been required to be lottery owners. Such decisions are based on today's lottery laws. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State realize that such a law leads to uncertainty for those responsible for operating, but also for those who have their daily work and livelihood in a local radio station?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1267	I may have every sympathy for the near-radios, but the purpose of lotteries and bingo is for them to cover ideal and humanitarian purposes. One can also perceive the question that has been asked as follows: Is the form of organisation essential for the radio being allowed to hold bingo? The choice of organisational form will not necessarily be relevant to the granting of an authorisation. The police must make a specific assessment of ownership, including mixed ownership, in relation to each application for authorisation. If necessary, detailed information must be obtained from the applicant or from the Statens Medievervalverwaltung. Although a company is organised as an AS, radiobingo may be permitted on condition that its interests are humanitarian or socially beneficial. Even if dividends are not to be paid to shareholders, a company with only private commercial interests will not be regarded as socially useful or humanitarian in the sense of the law. Funds made up of radiobingo revenues may not be paid to private owners in the event of a dissolution of the parent company, other change or conversion of the parent company. Private owners who have no interest in ownership other than supporting the radio may, for example: contribute through the necessary sponsorship revenues to the financing of operations. If the concessionaire receives public support, advertising or sponsorship income, this does not prevent bingo acceptance from being granted, so long as the bingo market is not overfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1280	I understand that the Council of State is fanatical about commercial interests. I'm busy with the local radios that operate in a completely different way. Many local radios have a sincere opinion that the laws can be interpreted as the Bodø police interpreted the Lottery Act in 1998. Some people may have a very negative attitude about bingo support for the local radio, because, as it's called, local radio is neither non-profit nor societal. It was also the Council of State inside. What, then, is the definition of social benefit? I want a clear definition of that. It is an initiative on the part of local radio that should have been premiered instead of being countered, as it is today. In my opinion, the fact that one manages without suction pipes into the state treasury in order to maintain the operation should mean that the application is automatically accepted. But I expect the Council of State doesn't have such a dramatic view as I do.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1287	Some of the problem for the nearby radios is that they do not have rights in relation to the press support. Here it is a problem that the representative asks questions about a principle, but is opposed to the press support, so in view of that logic, the near-radios cannot solve their problem in that area. Then I understand that the representative is busy with bingo. In the case of bingo, my relationship is that I am concerned that lotteries – bingo and all other forms – should be secured for non-profit activities, no matter what it may be. The big threat is to compete in different ways. These are general considerations that I want to take care of when we come back with lottery laws and regulations in that context. But there are two reasons for this: the attempt to secure the near-radio and my duty to ensure that the lottery regulations respect the ideal considerations that exist. Although you have a legitimate purpose as a near-radio, I can't let the near-radio go into what's for the ideal business, without the near-radio actually meeting the criteria. To put it bluntly, the Eines near-radio of a non-profit organization can therefore be covered by the regulations. If you don't, you have problems.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1295	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘There has been some concern in the last year about the possible closure of the sorencies in the districts, including the sorenicist in Solør. You wait anxiously for consultation papers, which have been notified would come early in ours. Can the Council of States confirm the existence of plans for such reductions?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1304	In October 1997, a sample was set up to carry out the structure and tasks of the courts of jurisdiction and of the city. The Structural Committee for the Rights of the Lords and of the Mayors was originally due to give its opinion in February of this year. However, the committee applied for a postponement to May with the suspension. The application was met. Next week, especially Tuesday 25 May, I will be handed over the setting from the Structural Committee. Like the representative, Bredvold, I'm waiting eagerly for the committee's investigation and conclusions. I can also mention that on 27 May I will also be handed over the position from the Court of Justice Commission. The study by the Structural Committee will initially be sent on a wide-ranging consultation round to, inter alia, all courts and all municipalities of the country. I would like to stress that the Hearing Officers will be given time to get involved in the proposals and to discuss them before the hearing opinion is delivered. The Ministry of Justice will continue to work on the matter, in the light of the recommendations of the Selection Board and the hearing opinions received, with a view to submitting to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1313	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I notice that the Council of State will add up to a comprehensive consultation round, inter alia. to all courts and all the municipalities of the country. The Council of State would stress that the hearing bodies should be given time to comment on the proposals and discuss them before the opinion is delivered. This is good. There is no doubt that the sorencies are important in the districts. The vast majority of us are within such an office one or more times in a year. It can apply anything from looking at a joint to a trial or wedding, etc. Does the Council see how important it is for the individual to have a sorren writing staff in his district, so that there is no day’s work to visit this service institution?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1322	I understand the representative's commitment to local courts and I don't need to do anything but take note of it. I am not going to get into anything else about the structure than what I have said, namely that I am waiting for the position that I get on 25 May, and it will be dealt with in the way that I explained in my first answer.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1329	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which maybe didn't give me that much. In addition to the problems I highlighted in my previous question, the local police and officers' offices are also concerned with the further fate of the Zorenprinters' offices. In the newspaper Oostlanden of 14 May 1999, the Åsnes-lensman Agnar Eig goes out and asks everyone to fight to keep the sorencies. For several reasons, he fears that the possible closure of the sorencies will reduce the security in Solør by placing the Länsmannskontoret in other police districts. Does the Council see the danger that any closure will cause problems in that there will not be enough staff to fill the watch lists, etc., and that, in my view, a person will have reduced security for the individual citizen? Does the Council of State see this danger, and what will he possibly do to compensate for this?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1338	I understand that the representative will have me commenting on a specific single question long before the individual question has been considered in a context. I then assume that the representative also understands that I am responding as I do, namely that I (a) understand what he is saying, (b) understand why he is concerned about it, but (c) that I intend to proceed in such a way that, when the Structural Committee has submitted its opinion, it should be submitted to a thorough hearing. I understand, of course, the need for coherence in what we call the criminal chain, and the security that people should have. In general, we in Norway want to have a decentralisation in terms of the criminal procedure chain, and then, of course, we have to have the right to assess the structure, but it has to be done in a democratic way with full and broad participation, as I have said I will add up to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1345	The President could perhaps be tempted to quote something that might have been said: whoever asks for little cannot expect much.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1398	These questions are put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1404	I have the following questions for the Minister of Social Affairs: «The majority of the majority of the population asked the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in 1995 to provide an assessment of the possibilities for travel businesses to be exempted from the requirement to grant a manufacturer's authorisation for serving home brewed beer in their own holding. In 1997, the majority asked the Ministry to make a concrete proposal to this effect. How far has the Ministry gone and can the Stortinge deal with the matter in connection with the abolition of the beer law and the revision of the alcohol law?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1413	It is positive that the tourist industry wants to serve the guests traditional Norwegian food and drink. There is no doubt that we have a lot of good to do in this country, and home-produced beer will be part of it. Alcohol laws do not prevent this, for example, from happening. is served home brew beer. When the Stortinget examined the proposal for changes to the alcohol laws in 1997, the question of making home brew beer in its own business was discussed. The Ministry pointed out at the time that exempting individual types of production would involve a hole in the permissions system that would cause control problems. Although such production will probably represent a small proportion of total turnover, such a hole in the system is likely to increase the risk of leaks both in terms of alcoholic goods and taxes. A number asked the Department to come up with a closer examination of the case and a proposal for a special permit scheme for self-execution. The Ministry is currently working out the question and intends to submit a case on this during the year. So to the representative Johnsen's concrete question about the time perspective. So there's going to be one thing that's going to happen during the fall. Øllova is now in charge in Stortinget, and it may therefore be thought that the most realistic thing here is two steps.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1424	I thank the Minister for the answer, which I see as positive. For the sake of order, I would just like to remind the Minister that a majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Right, is in the Innst. O. No 74 for 1994-95 indicated that: ‘there is an increasing interest in the preparation and serving of traditional Norwegian food and drink as part of experience offers based on genuine Norwegian traditions and local characteristics, such as: related to rural tourism, rural development, etc. In this context, serving home brewed beer is also a relevant part of the concept’. I assume that the minister believes that one here will get a point into the law, so that one will see to it – then in the next step, as she said.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1436	I have noticed the plural opinion, as quoted here by the representative Jan Johnsen. At the same time, there is another plurality, the members of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, as in the Inner East. O. No 59 for 1996-97 would not go into this in the context of the handling of laws on changes in alcohol laws, but which ‘The government examined the matter more thoroughly in order to describe and design an authorisation scheme, including all legislative considerations and legislation to allow, where appropriate, the possibility of discontinuance on its own business together with food traditionally included’. I interpret it in such a way that different concerns are addressed and different legislation is included. It means that at this point I will not advance a solution, but I will promise that a matter will be submitted to Stortinget during the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1446	I thank you again for the answer – but I found it a little more disturbing because I felt that there was an undertone here, that it might not be as it is drawn up in the majority comment. I also understood that the majority to which the Minister referred, a majority from the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left, asked that «The Government will come back to Stortinget with such a proposal which will then be able to assess whether it should be included in the provisions of the Alcohol Code». But it was not to the reality itself, that it should be possible to brew beer in your own company. I expect that it is firm – and I hope the Minister can confirm it – but where it is purely legal, what we are probably disagreeing about, I understand.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1456	The matter that will be put before Stortinget in the fall will take care of what was the Stortinget's opinion when these comments were written. What it will look like, what the recommendation will be, the content, the connection to the law, etc., I have to be allowed to come back to. Elles would not have wondered if the representative Jan Johnsen, with the practical thinking he had shown before, had asked if why in all the world it has taken so long to get this from the department. I am glad that I was made aware that there is something that has not been followed up, but I believe that Johnsen too understands that there were other aspects of the alcohol laws that we had to prioritise. Similarly, we have also spent a great deal of time providing an action plan to reduce drug use.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1473	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. Question 19 has been dealt with earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1488	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1494	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: «The Member State veterinary medicinal product control has granted provisional authorisation for the use of Lepsidone known for the control of salmonidosis. SFT is skeptical for use, inter alia, because it contains diflubenzuron, a substance that is carcinogenic and can have significant negative consequences for life near the farms. Nevertheless, SFT accepts use. Does the Council of State consider that the precautionary principle is respected in this case, or will she propose a ban on the use of Lepsidone know?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1503	It is the State Medicines Control Office, which is a member of the Ministry of Social and Health, which is the approval authority for this type of chemicals. In its assessment, Staten Pharmacovigilance considers the documented quality, efficacy and safety of the medicinal product concerned. The authorised use of the medicinal product is adapted to this dossier. State pollution control assists the control of medicinal products in the assessment of the environmental consequences of medicinal products. In this specific case, State pollution control has recommended restrictions on the frequency of use and prohibition of use during periods when crustaceans change, as the chemical may have adverse effects during such periods. State pollution control considers that the use of Lepsidone knows can cause effects on the environment, but understands that the leaching problem cannot be resolved without the use of medicinal products. In addition, an agreement between the Ministry of Fisheries, the Norwegian Environmental Protection Association and the Norwegian Fish Breeding Association provides for an evaluation of the environmental impact of the use of this medicinal product by an independent, reunited institute. The framework for such an evaluation is now being explored. I give very high priority to the work on chemicals that are hazardous to health and the environment, and I attach great importance to the fact that the precautionary principle underpins the whole chemical policy. This applies even though the health authorities are responsible for the authorisation of chemicals in medicinal products. Based on their assessment, the State pollution control authority has not waived all use of this medicinal product. But a process has begun to make new assessments of Lepsidon knows. I assume that all considerations will be taken into account in this process, including the precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1514	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I thought a little bit along the way came to the questioner's meeting. One must be very specific in relation to an evaluation of the use of this product, considering when the Ministry of the Environment will make a final assessment of it – what time it will be, for one can last a long time. And the consequences can, in my opinion, be great if it's like this is a substance where one doesn't take care of the precautionary principle, as I understand it. There is no doubt that when one requires that fish treated with this substance cannot be slaughtered until at least 60 days after the end of treatment, it is because there is a health risk attached to it. The principle of good was not then properly observed, nor the fact that it has an impact on plants and animal life around the farms. My question is first and foremost: what time is this evaluation coming, so that we can get a ban on the substance?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1528	Let me first say that we are now assessing the framework for an evaluation and how it will be carried out. This evaluation will be carried out as soon as it is professionally sound. Not least, it is important to me, as I said in my first answer, that the precautionary principle is also properly respected in such an evaluation. The problem raised by the representative of Langeland is also the fight against salmonids, which is a major and difficult problem. We are now in a critical evaluation of the use of rotenone as well. We have therefore been recommended that there should be no rotenon treatment of watercourses this year, including. Because we don't know enough why we're getting new flowers. And if we're going to avoid the use of rotenone in the future, it's important that we investigate what alternatives exist. Lepsidon knows can be one of them, but we need to have a proper evaluation of it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1535	I thank you for your answer. I hope that the Minister for the Environment in his next reply can be clear on the time perspective we are talking about, because there you are not clear enough, Minister for the Environment. When it's professionally defended, it could be in one, two or three years, so here one should be a little bit specific. Can it be, for example, be associated with the message that the Minister for the Environment has intended to present to the autumn in connection with the setting of the Rieber-Mohn selection, which addresses the whole Salmon Stock issue? Is it a current time to come back to this on? I mean, based on what SFT also concludes with respect to these substances, that they can have an effect on plants and animals, and then the precautionary principle has not been taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1542	The President will remind the representative of Langeland that all speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1545	I have a tendency to forget it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1550	The President will make sure to remind him whether it will be necessary in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1553	Thank you, President!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1558	Thus, even though the State pollution authorities have concluded that Lepsidon knows that it can have environmental effects, we believe that it is appropriate to use it as long as its use is limited, both in terms of frequency and areas treated with it, and not least that it is not used during periods when crustaceans change shells. State pollution control has assessed this in such a way that, if one takes these precautions, the precautionary principle is respected in the light of the recommendations they have made. I am, as I said, prepared to follow up this as soon as possible. However, as there are several people involved here, I realistically expect that it will take some time to get in place, not least the framework for such an evaluation. If it turns out possible and professionally sound to come back to this in the autumn when we go through parts of the setting from the Rieber-Mohn committee, I will do so, but I will not promise this regardless of the professional content of the assessment that is taking place.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1571	This question, from the representative Jørn L. Stang to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1574	I would like to ask the following questions: ‘A Chief Executive Officer of the Oslo Police Chamber has been notified of discriminatory statements in a court case. Among other things, it was established from the actor that ‘Oslo police have had some negative experiences with foreigners’. This relationship has been directly notified to the Special Investigation Body for Police Affairs [[SEFO]] Since the complainant, the Centre for Ethnic Discrimination, is directly subject to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, will the question be whether the Department of the Council of State is also behind this notification?’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1583	Centres for ethnic discrimination are organised as a management body with specific powers and activities are limited to a probationary period until the end of 2002. The specific powers granted in the mandate of the Centre shall be set out in kilograms. the resolution of 11 September 1998 and provides for a professional exemption from the central authorities. The purpose of the Centre is to ensure protection against discrimination on grounds of creed, race, colour of skin, national or ethnic origin. The instruments are firstly to provide legal assistance to persons who are subject to such discrimination and, secondly, to monitor and document the situation with regard to the nature and extent of discrimination. Like other public bodies with similar control and monitoring functions, such as the Data Protection Authority, the Consumer Ombudsman, Gender Equality Centre, the Equality Ombudsman and the Children’s Ombudsman, the Centre should also be able to play a critical role in relation to public sector activities. This includes, inter alia: the Centre must be able to deal with matters of a kind referred to in this specific case without any involvement of the Department. I consider it important for the Centre's credibility and legitimacy that the Department should not review the Centre's professional judgements in this specific matter. The mandate of the Centre shall provide that the professional instruction authority is attached to the King in the Council of State, and the Administrative Authority of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is limited to financial and administrative governance. The process of setting up the Centre shows that the issue of the mandate and organisation of the Centre has been subject to a thorough evaluation. There have been discussions with the departments involved and with the voluntary organisations, in addition to a broad public consultation round. The hearing letter was sent to the political parties represented at Stortinget, among others. to ensure that the lots were informed of the establishment of the Centre. The reason why the Centre is organised as a public body within the State is that it wishes to indicate that the public has a special responsibility in this area. Furthermore, such an organisation is also intended to contribute to the Centre’s increased weight and impact on bodies in both the private and public sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1594	I think it was a very eye-catching response I received from the Council of State. The case was about a foreigner who was accused in Oslo Byrett of having committed sexual assault on a Norwegian woman. When the case was in court, the actor showed in his procedure that the Oslo police have had some negative experiences with non-residents. We cannot accept that these foreigners who come here, who do not follow Norwegian law, go free, pronounced the actorate. In order to clarify his reasoning, the police inspector also indicated that a Muslim woman under the so-called Nadia case should have said, ‘All Norwegian women are whores.’ Is it so to understand that an actor cannot do his job of referring to facts in a case procedure, without the risk of being notified by an adhoc body under the Ministry of Local Affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1608	As my first response showed, I replied as to whether the department was behind this report, and I used my answer to explain how the center's position is in relation to the department. It is therefore the case that the King of the Council of State has chosen to grant this Centre a professional leave, like – as I also said in my first reply – other public bodies with similar control and monitoring functions, such as the Data Protection Authority, the Consumer Ombudsman, the Institute for Gender Equality, the Equality Ombudsman and the Children's Ombudsman. This also means, and we think it is important, that the Centre should be able to deal with matters of the kind referred to in this case, without interference from the Department. This does not mean that the Ministry has taken a position on the matter, they are neither against nor for the content of the notification; the Centre is professionally released.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1613	I think that the Council of State and the Department have a rather too light attitude towards an ad hoc election. It is quite judgmental claims that come from this center. However, the plaintiff’s defender has responded to the statements made by the actor and has allegedly followed up afterwards with a formal complaint to the police chief of Oslo. Is this not sufficient to follow certain alleged procedural procedures in the Norwegian judicial system? And: Will the Council of State ensure that this report by the sub-committee, which is intended to punish the police inspector under the penal code of gross misconduct in the service, is withdrawn? The notification is justified by the serious claim made by the Centre against ethnic discrimination that a person is guilty of being a foreigner. This, I think, is a serious claim to an actorate.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1618	It does not appear that the representative here agrees or relates to my first response that this centre has a clear professional exemption. It has been the centre, and it seems that the authorities have been important, not least in order to be able to address issues affecting both the private and public sectors. The centre is also established because we believe it is an important public responsibility to contribute to avoiding discrimination. On the specific issue of whether the department will require the notification to be withdrawn, it is clearly a no. This would be contrary to the fact that this centre is professionally released, and therefore the Ministry will neither support the notification nor demand its withdrawal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1625	So we're done with case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_1999-05-19.ana.ud1367e1634	There is no record available.
