ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e50	The representatives of Dagrun Eriksen, Kjell Engebretsen, Hans J. Røsjorde, Ranveig Frøiland, John Dale, Bjørn Tore Godal, Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen, Arne Lyngstad, Per Ove Width, Anne Helen Rui and Gunnar Schaug, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the province of Hordaland: Sigurd Grytten For Uppland State: Kjell Ivar Fossnes For Telemark County: Vivian Knarvik Bugge For Southern Tribute County: Bjørg Bruset and Michael Momyr Three permit applications are available: From the representatives of Ursula Evje, Tomas Norvoll and Arne Lyngstad from 2 June to 4 June – all to participate on 10 June. EUREKA Conference in Ankara. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the period of leave: For Akershus County: André KukkestadFor Nordland County: Bears Olsen and Kari Brodevoll For Nord-Trøndelag County: Astri Wessel
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e146	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e151	I suggest Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e156	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e168	Let me first be allowed to correct an error in the setting on page 2, section 2, where the correct wording of section 2 shall be: «Workers have complete freedom to join the trade union they wish or to stand outside any trade union». The issue of freedom of organisation is not regulated in Norway. However, at the end of the last century, the labour movement demanded the legalisation of the freedom of organisation, i.e. the right to organise and to form trade unions. As a counterclaim to this effect, it was demanded by the employer team that any legal rule should also include the right not to be organised to ensure, as it was then called, ‘the freedom of work’. The country organisation went against such an addition, which was considered to support anti-fouling activities, and ended up not regulating freedom of organisation. Although the issue has been politically controversial from time to time, it has been suggested throughout the years that organisational obligations, as referred to in Document No. The 8 proposal from the proposers, in working conditions, does not infringe Norwegian law. In practice, such contractual provisions exist in workers' enterprises, while the Main Agreement between the Land Organisation and the Economic and Social Organisation protects both the right to be organised and to be unorganised. The decision of the Labour Law Council of 20 January 1966 on organisational rights, organisational responsibility and organisational monopoly in Norwegian working life concludes that there was no basis for making changes to the current law in this area. The question was then submitted to Stortinget through St.meld. No 24 for 1975-76, which followed the suspension of the Labour Law Council, and on this basis it must be assumed that as well as the Labour Law Council as the Stortinget has argued that organisational obligations are compatible with Norwegian law. When lex Ashim was lifted in 1978, the Stortinget also seemed to build on this. It is clear from the mass negotiations and the argument that the abolition will mean the introduction of organisational obligations for managers employed in the co-operation. Not later than 1996, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Local Government and Labour stated that organisational obligations in employment are not contrary to Norwegian law. The former President of the Labour Court, Professor Kristen Andersen, also makes it clear in «From the law of the labour force», page 151 that it is, in principle, legally incomprehensible to agree on organisational obligations. The same point of view must be derived from Stein Evju's book «Organization Freedom, Tariff Agreements and Strikes» from 1982, while Professor Jakhelln seems to have a somewhat different view, which is also linked to the Working Environment Act § 55 A. Section 55 A of the Working Environment Act prohibits the request of applicants for membership of trade unions, among others. Although the exemption provisions of Paragraph 55(A) should not be applicable, the provisions cannot be relied on as a basis for claiming that organisational obligations are not legitimate. The organisational obligation clause may be implemented by briefing applicants on the organisation obligations of the company and that this is a condition of employment, without being asked about organisational relationships. What about the relationship to international law? The ILO Conventions only protect the positive freedom of organisation. It is therefore indisputable that the issue of the negative freedom of organisation is not covered by the rules of the ILO, cf. ILO Conventions No 87 and 98. In particular, it is on the basis of Section 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights that questions have recently been raised about organisational obligations are legitimate. From a legal point of view, it is Professor Jakhelln, in particular, who invokes this Convention as the basis for claiming that organisational obligations are illegal. Three decisions of the European Court of Human Rights are of particular interest. The first decision is from 1981, the so-called British Rail judgment. The judgment means that organisational obligations cannot be implemented in relation to employees who were employed before the obligation of organisation was laid down. It is in accordance with Norwegian law. The judgment does not justify the view that organisational obligations are generally unlawful. In a 1993 judgment, the Court of Justice has endorsed an organisational obligation clause in Iceland. The ratio was that the authorities required the applicant to be associated with the organisation as a condition for granting taxi licenses. As regards the exercise of powers in relation to business, the matter is not directly transferable to organisational clauses in the labour market. On the other hand, the judgment is interesting in relation to organisational clauses in business. The last case, from 1996, concerned the work struggle, the so-called Gustafsson against Sweden. A manager refused to sign a collective agreement and was subjected to labour-fighting measures. He claimed the freedom of organisation and claimed that the state had an obligation to intervene in order to protect him. The Court found that the State had no obligation to intervene. Finally, in 1994, the Constitution was given a new § 110c, which obliges state authorities to respect and safeguard human rights, and states that detailed provisions to implement treaties to this effect are laid down by law. This has been followed up by Odelstingen’s treatment of Inner. O. No 51, cf. Ot. pp. No 3 for 1998-99. I would therefore recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e205	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e208	There is a majority in this case that rejects the proposal of Gundersen and Simonsen. What is more unclear, on the other hand, is whether there is a majority who agree on what they really reject and what should be included in the concept of freedom of association. Reference is made in the preamble to the Human Rights Act and to the European Convention on Human Rights. The government says in Ot.prp. No 3 that with regard to those laws, there is ‘no reason to assume, however, that the situation will in practice be substantially altered by the incorporation of the European Convention on Human Rights’. It is therefore possible to ask questions as to whether Norwegian law is being amended. But what I also want to clarify from the Labour Party and from the case rapporteur, when they are in a majority opinion saying that the proposal by Gundersen and Simonsen is unnecessary, is whether it means that the Labour Party now believes that organisational obligations should be prohibited under Norwegian law, as the proposers believe in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e217	I believe that the representative from the Right had the impression that it was unclear whether the Workers' Party believed that organisational obligations should be prohibited under the applicable Norwegian law. What I said in my post was that organisational obligations hardly conflict with Norwegian law or Norwegian case law, so I believe that I have answered the question. We have a different starting point because we believe we have coverage that organisational obligations are not illegal, and we find it unnecessary to legislate for the negative freedom of organisation because it is derived from the Main Agreement between the National Organisation and the Economic and Social Organisation, and is also subject to international human rights conventions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e222	The majority, including the rapporteur on the matter, claim that the negative freedom of organisation is also guaranteed in Norwegian law. The question is then: What does the rapporteur of the case mean by ‘negative freedom of organisation’ when it is then permissible for employers to make employment conditional upon the jobseeker concerned joining a professional organisation? What, then, does the ‘negative freedom of organisation’ now considered guaranteed by Norwegian law include? And it says it explicitly in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e229	In my contribution, I pointed to the historical development in relation to the organisation struggle in Norway, where, at the end of the last century, the issue of the right to be organised was raised by the labour movement. This, of course, had a historical reason because employers did not want unions in the workplace. This has probably changed significantly over time. Although employers today are also trying to prevent the formation of trade unions in different ways, it is possible to calculate occasional individual cases. The representative of Gundersen asks questions about what we put in the ‘negative freedom of organisation’. As I also pointed out, there is a distinction between the relationship with business in general and the relationship with workers in particular. And then there are cases where one has had unfortunate outcomes of how to deal with organisational obligations in some companies. In most of the cases referred to in Document No. The 8 proposal, the professional organisations involved, has signaled that we are in the process of cleaning up, so that we can take care of the legal aspects by that way of organizing ourselves, and I trust that we can deal with this on our own.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e243	It's in the setting on page 2: ‘The majority refer to letters to the Committee of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs dated 27 April 1999 and agree that both the positive and the negative rights of the organisation are protected under Norwegian law by the Law on Human Rights. The proposal is therefore unnecessary.’ And now I asked what the representative of the majority means by ‘negative freedom of organisation’, when it is then fully permissible for employers to require him to be a member of an organisation for employment, and that, if he does not register, he may be dismissed without this cancellation being immaterial. As far as I understand, I have not received an answer to that question. What does the case-rapporteur think is left with the negative freedom of organisation?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e253	I want to start with the last thing that the representative Gundersen referred to. What is needed in order to be able to cancel a person in a business based on the fact that one will not be associated with a trade union – as I understood the question. I have not affected Section 60 of the Working Environment Act in my statement on the factual reason for dismissal. What I affected, on the other hand, were the organisational obligations in relation to an employee before he started working. No one has been dismissed because they are resigning from a trade union or do not want to join a trade union. The legal basis is that the organisational obligations should not apply to employees already employed. So in my opinion, there is a significant difference here in terms of management and the functioning of organisational obligations in the workplace. Judicial practices show, in relation to dismissal, that the introduction of organisational obligations does not provide a basis for the dismissal of employees already employed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e260	Given that the outside world and we ourselves will later interpret the decisions we are making today and the position that exists, it may be useful to clarify some of these comments. After what Odd Eriksen now says, he does not agree with the clarifications of ‘negative organisational rights’ made in the proposed paragraphs from Gundersen and Simonsen. I therefore want a confirmation from Odd Eriksen that what his party has joined in a majority comment that ‘the proposal is therefore unnecessary’ is misleading in view of the fact that organisational obligations should still be possible under Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e266	I believe that I have stressed that organisational obligations are not in conflict, and that I have shown evidence that supports such a view, even though Professor Jakhelln is in many ways of a different view, as I see it. Neither I nor the Workers' Party are followers of organizational responsibility. However, I believe that Norwegian working life practices over 100 years show that this has not been the problem with Norwegian workers in Norwegian businesses. It is actually the opposite that has been the problem, and which is still part of the Norwegian working life today. In many ways, I understand that you can have a political reason to promote the proposal that has been promoted, and I respect that. But there will be a bit of a wrong approach, I think, if you link this to organisational obligations in isolation, and say that the problem in Norwegian working life today is organisational. All the experience shows – probably without having research reports that can prove it – that it is the businesses that have tidy, proper organisational relationships, that are, in isolation, best operated.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e275	I have to say I'm being surprised. The rapporteur has now had the opportunity to clarify this several times, and possibly to confirm that the majority of the Committee agrees with what the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs said in his letter of 27 April. to the Committee. And then I have to ask again, and this is the starting point here: Is this how to understand from the comment on page 2 of the vote, that the majority believes that the negative freedom of organisation in Norway in these matters is protected by the Human Rights Act? I believe that the rapporteur has to clarify, because if the rapporteur is unable to clarify it, none of those who might interpret what is in the majority position will know what the majority really means, when the rapporteur on behalf of the majority has created a completely unnecessary uncertainty. But now the case rapporteur has another chance to clarify this and to make it very clear what the majority put in that remark.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e282	There are no dissenting views or views here regarding the majority voting and the letter received from the Council of State. What I believe is what Kleppe, Gundersen and Ryssdal want me to say is that I am going to glorify unorganized workers in businesses. I do not, because I think it is extremely unfortunate for Norwegian business and Norwegian work. To put it another way: I believe that the Landsorganisation in Norway and the other main organisations have been important contributors to building the Norwegian welfare community. I think that this House should give them credit and ring around. And then it becomes incompatible to promote a law that will initially safeguard the interests of those who want to be unorganised in Norwegian workplaces.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e287	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e290	The question of whether a separate law should be adopted to protect the right of workers to be organised and to choose freely where to be organised, and to protect the right to be unorganised, has been raised in the United Kingdom in 1959, in 1983, in 1998 and now in 1999. It was this time associated with a certain hope of finally legislating this principally very important right of individual workers to be organised, but also the equally important right to be unorganised in a job. In view of the fact that the establishment of some enterprises requires professional organisation in connection with the LO, while some workers feel an undue pressure to be organised, there is good reason to doubt whether there is real freedom of organisation in Norway today. The municipal committee that has been involved in this legislative proposal to ensure both the right to be organised and the right not to be organised has dealt with this matter in a way that I am deeply disappointed at. During the examination of this bill in the municipal committee, it turned out that the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party and SV, but oddly also of the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, felt that this bill was unnecessary. So you rejected, you might say, once again, such a bill. This majority justified its view that the genuine freedom of organisation is already ensured by Norway's inclusion in Norwegian law both the European Convention on Human Rights and two UN Conventions on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and on Civil and Political Rights respectively. Consequently, the entire basis for the majority’s decision is solely based on the fact that the content of those three conventions is intended to ensure the genuine freedom of organisation of Norwegian workers. At the same time, it is also very unclear what is included in the concept of ‘real organisational freedom’ in the individual parties, at least as I perceive it, and how I got the impression in the line change. Of course, there will be no point in adopting a separate Norwegian law for something that is already guaranteed by international conventions, but in those conventions to which reference is made, in my view, there are no formulations that clearly and unambiguously protect all aspects of freedom of organisation. The negative freedom of organisation, i.e. the right to be unorganised, does not seem to be very well protected by these conventions. And precisely giving the right to be unorganized a protective legal protection was an important point of this bill, which the majority now chooses to reject. So there is, in part, considerable disagreement as to whether these conventions really provide adequate protection for all aspects of freedom of organisation, as the majority claim in their comments. But first let's think about what each of these three conventions, to which it is constantly referred, says about freedom of organisation. Article 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights states that it shall be «freedom of assembly and association». The International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights states in Article 8 that it is possible to ‘join trade unions’ of your choice. And the International Convention on Political and Civil Rights states in Article 22 that it is «the right to freedom of association». And that's actually all that is in these so-called conventions on this freedom of organisation. So these three conventions do not contain a single clear word about the right to be unorganized, but nevertheless the Committee believes that these conventions provide such a good protection also of the negative right of organisation that a separate legislative proposal is absolutely unnecessary! In my view, this is very worrying. The fact that these conventions are sylt thin as regards the right to be unorganised is confirmed by the Ministry, as in Ot. pp. No 3 on the Human Rights Act states: «None of the three Conventions provides expressly for the right not to join associations». And we haven't confessed to me yet any court ruling from Norwegian courts interpreting these conventions, but it turns out from other countries' judicial decisions that, with regard to the right to be unorganized, it's not particularly protected in these conventions. The European Court of Human Rights states that the obligation to join a particular trade union does not always conflict with the Conventions. From Denmark I received a legal transcript from the Vestre Landsret from 18 November 1998, where it was established that it was lawful to dismiss an employee because it opposed being organized in the LO. And just as Denmark has incorporated the same conventions since 1992 as the majority in the Committee refers to, but the dismissal of this Danish worker was not contrary to these conventions, it meant Danish law. This seems a little reassuring. Does the majority of the committee, at least the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, expect Norwegian law to see this differently from Danish law? There are therefore several good reasons to claim that there is a marked need for a separate law that clearly and unambiguously guarantees the whole and full freedom of organisation – both the positive and, equally importantly, the negative right of organisation. Let me also refer to the main agreement currently in force between LO and SamFo – the Cooperative Businesses Negotiation Organisation. Consequently, Section 2-1 on organisational obligations states: ‘Workers employed in enterprises registered with SamFo shall be professionally organised in connection with the LO. In the case of employment, the employee concerned shall be made aware that this is a condition of employment.» This is a testimonial to the fact that the freedom of association is not as real in Norway as many people think, or try to give the impression of, because at that time these clauses, which give rise to organizational pressure, had been known to be illegal. Thus, these organisational obligations allow workers to be forced into an organisation such as LO. One very worrying aspect of this is that, as you know, LO has a clear policy line that it must be possible to assume that several of the workers who are being forced to do so do not necessarily agree. Isn't it a perfectly obvious human right to get out of being a member of an organization that has a social view one itself must deeply disagree with? However, in Norway this is accepted, in the absence of a law that guarantees these elementary rights for individuals. Is the system of organisational obligations in the world of work really a form of organisational relationship that the government parties can terminate? Let me ask a question to the Christian People's Party: Is it okay for the Christian People's Party that a Christian People's Party elector is forced to get organized in the LO and thus in a way must give his support to the labour organisation LO, which stands for a rather different political line on important social issues than what this Christian People's Party elector had to stand for? Is this freedom of organization as the Christian People's Party sees it? Furthermore, one should also note that, in a letter of 5 May 1997, the LO claims that under no circumstances can it accept a legalisation of the negative organisational right. So LO still wants to be able to keep the opportunities to force people into an organisational relationship. This is hardly in line with the good democratic spirit we like to salute in this country. If the Conventions are to ensure also the negative freedom of organisation, as both the Workers' Party and the Government Parties in the suspension claim they do, is it such that the LO, in these organisational obligations, tramples on the fundamental human rights which the Conventions are supposed to respect? Furthermore, Section 55(A) of the Working Environment Act – the so-called anti-discrimination paragraph – states that when employed, it is prohibited to ask questions about whether you are a member of a work organisation or an employee organisation. However, when it is forbidden to ask for information on organisational relationships, how is it possible to place a decisive emphasis on the same organisational relationships by making it possible to set up a LO organisation as a criterion for employment? Shouldn't this organisation as well have been equally prohibited? The conclusion is that this case contains so many questions, so many obvious ambiguities, so many ambiguities and so many suspicious aspects that only one law of its own could really clean up in all these circumstances. It is therefore with the greatest regret that I have to say that the government parties were not willing to support this very important legislative proposal, which is about the most elementary demands and rights of the ordinary worker and the normal working woman in that country. As I said, I am disappointed with the Christian People's Party and the Center Party in this matter. How was it really possible to draw the support we thought these parties would give to this bill? Hopefully these parties will be able to answer that themselves. In conclusion, I would like to mention the proposals included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e345	Torbjørn Andersen has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e350	This is almost touching. It was just before I started to laugh when I heard the representative Torbjørn Andersen from the Progress Party worried about the members of LO and LO. I just want to point out that today's legal status in the area of freedom of organisation, together with the applicable rules of the game on the freedom of negotiation, the right to strike, voting rules and the issue of strikebreakers, is one of several fundamental elements of the established and broad consensus between the authorities and the social partners. The responsibility of the main organisations for wage formation through free, collective bargaining is the foundation of our democracy and the prerequisite for income policy cooperation as developed in Norway. Both the Employment Commission and the Labour Law Council stress the importance of ensuring that the main organisations are critical in terms of wage formation, and that, therefore, measures contributing to good results for organisations should also be considered. Lawmaking of the right to be unorganised will involve a legal framework and support for anti-organisational employers and employees. This will undermine the emergence of organisations, including the opportunities for organisations on both sides to pursue a policy based on the whole and societal considerations. I would like to ask the representative Torbjørn Andersen whether he disagrees that it will be important also for employment, for development, for the municipalities and for the general economy of our society that if we make such a law, we actually become socially isolated.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e363	I understand that the representative Leif Lund, who represents a party that is LO's extended political arm, has special interests in this matter and therefore goes so hard. My position and my point is to ensure real freedom of organisation for all workers in this country. I know that in the main agreement between NHO and LO in Section 2 it is stated that there should be freedom of association – it accepts everyone, it is the broad consensus on which the representative Leif Lund mentioned. And that fully accepts the signed. But it's just the unfortunate fact that when we have these organisational obligations, there are several people who may not vote the Labour Party, who are forced into the LO. And when we know the workers' party's close relationship with the LO, and know that the LO is in no way unpolitical, but stands for a clear social policy line, I believe that it is contrary to the basic human rights to be forced into an organization when you feel that this organisation is leading a political line you might be totally disagreeing with. I believe that the striking point is that every employee should have the full right to choose whether this will be organised or not. Then it's important to have legal protection also by the negative right of organisation, because it's actually, as far as I can see, on a sweeping basis, as it's being dealt with in this matter here today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e372	I mean to have coverage to say that that's right what I ended my last reply with, that this is a proposal that has the character of a wish for a political direction rather than a relationship with the law. The full contribution of Andersen’s representative was also marked by his – to put it mildly – strained relations with the Landsorganisationen in Norway. I have no scruples in saying that I am proud of the close links between the Landsorganisation in Norway and the Norwegian Workers' Party, especially in the light of the organisation's contribution to the construction of the Norwegian welfare society. And then I just remind Andersen's representative that it was actually the central workers' party at the end of the last century that contributed to the foundation of the Landsorganisation. The close links between the Norwegian Labour Party and the Landsorganisation exist today, and I hope they exist for many years to come. What strikes me is the great difficulty of the representatives of Andersen and the Progress Party in accepting both the right and the need to join a central organisation. Rights of the ordinary worker and wife, he talked about. Yes, in a historical perspective, what kind of rights did the ordinary worker and woman have without the basis of the trade union and employee organisations? That is the interesting question — not the right to stand unorganised and to be a freelancer in Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e381	I would like to open up to ask: is it then that the Workers' Party simply does not respect the individual's claim and the right to remain unorganized? Since I consider the right to be unorganized as a fundamental human right, I will perceive that the Workers' Party, if it is such that they do not regard this as a right, tramples on fundamental rights. I'm very sorry about that. I've been told that the three conventions are very unclear. The representative Eriksen, who now had a reply to me, had great problems in showing and interpreting the contents of these three conventions. In fact, it is quite obvious, as I can understand the representative Eriksen, that he still wants these organisational obligations to apply, with the possibility of coercive organisation of workers involved. Here we have a completely fundamentally different view. And as I said in my previous reply, it's no wonder, when we know the close ties between the LO and the Workers' Party, and when LO has previously stated that under no circumstances can they accept the law of the negative organisational right. In itself, a belief, since these three conventions, which have been incorporated into the law of human rights, should have been so praiseworthy, that according to the text of the Convention, this should not have been possible at all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e388	The working party may try again to explain to the Progress Party on these three Conventions. All three conventions provide for freedom of organisation. It has been suggested that both the positive freedom of organisation, i.e. the right to be organised in a trade union of your choice, and the negative freedom of organisation, i.e. the right to be unorganised is covered by the Conventions. While the Conventions have not, in fact, expressly provided for the negative freedom of organisation, it has been established in practice, in particular in the European Court of Human Rights and in several cases, that the negative freedom of organisation is protected, even though it is difficult to derive from this practice the extent of protection. In connection with the Innst. O. No 51 for 1998-99, which was adopted on 27 April of this year after treatment in laying and laying, we show among other things. that the rights of freedom of organisation are made clear, and it will be easier to invoke freedom of organisation in cases before Norwegian courts. I have no doubt that this will mean a reinforced protection of the freedom of organisation, so we are actually at the goal. That's our answer to the Progress Party, and I hope that's good enough for Torbjørn Andersen. Otherwise I'm happy for his concern for us in LO. One gets hope that he might sign up sometime.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e400	These three conventions are quite so central in this matter. In fact, they are absolutely essential. In my article, I presented the spinning textual basis that exists if you look through the articles of these three conventions. It can be counted on a hand. The freedom of assembly and association must be one that can be joined by trade unions of its own choice, and that is the right to freedom of association – that is what can be found there. And these texts are by no means clarifying, at least not in terms of negative organisational right. Therefore, until at least we get legal practice in this area, it becomes completely unclear, and as unclear as it is today, whether the right to be unorganised at all has any special legal protection in this country. I think it's about time this court got that. Once again, I regret that the Labour Party is not willing to go fully into this and accept that there will be total equality between the positive right of organisation and the negative right of organisation in all areas of this society. In fact, this is not the case when it comes to defending the use of organisational obligations clauses, of which there is a part in the world of work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e405	What is the problem in relation to Document No. The 8 is that it takes inwards only the negative freedom of organisation, i.e. the right to be unorganized. That's what's leading to Document No. The 8 proposal, and that's what creates the problem. The main agreement, which we had in mind, between the Landsorganisation and the Society's Main Organisation, contains contractual provisions on both the right to be organised and the right to be unorganised. We have no legal provision on the right to organise – we don't have it. The issue of freedom of organisation is therefore, as I initially said in my main post, not regulated in Norway. It suggests that there is no reason to make that legal regulation. We've been to the conventions. The representative Torbjørn Andersen points out that the text is unclear. He points out that the question concerns the right to join a trade union of his choice. I don't think it's that simple. Let me quote Article 11 of the Convention on Human Rights: ‘Everyone has the right to... freely join trade unions in order to protect his or her interests.’ It is not contained in the Convention on Human Rights the words ‘of its own choice’. Everyone has the right to join trade unions freely. From this one can assume that it is free to be connected and not to be associated with trade unions. There are similar wordings in the Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Affairs. So I repeat what I've said before: I respect the right to be unorganized, but I don't want to explicitly legitimize the right to be unorganized, and that's a significant difference. The right to be unorganised can be derived from conventions incorporated as part of Norwegian law and from the Landsorganisation and Economic Organisation Agreement. But again: I want as many workers as possible to be organised, in order to ensure the rights of workers in Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e414	I wonder if I should refer to what I referred to in my statement, a court order of the West Court of Denmark on 18 November 1998, where, therefore, an employee was dismissed because he refused to be organised – there were such organisational obligations within the picture. This case was brought before the court, and the decision was based on a valid ground for dismissal. I would say that if such a case-law is transferred to Norwegian conditions, the content to which the Committee refers in these conventions is actually not worth more than the paper on which they are written. That's what the point is. If we can't expect these conventions to fully respect the negative right of organisation, then they're not worth anything either, because the positive right of organisation we all agree is well protected in this country. There are, after all, 800,000 workers in this country who are not organized. They're the largest group. If you look at LO, if you look at those who are active workers, they have between 400,000 and 500,000, and not at all the inflated figure of over 800,000 with which they operate. So the group that's actually the largest is the unorganized. I think it's morally right to give those who don't want to be organized, a protection in line with those who want to be organized. This should be a perfectly obvious right for the individual. That it is so difficult to get the Workers' Party to grasp this, and that they must dig out all kinds of arguments to try to reject that this is necessary! The Workers' Party is afraid that a legalisation of the freedom of organisation will reduce the upswing in the LO – that's the point.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e419	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e422	The Christian People's Party has and has been committed to freedom of organization. Freedom of organisation is important. It is, in my opinion, a human right. In this image, it is right to stress how much organisations have and have had to say for the emergence of general rights for people and for the development of the welfare society. In general, then, the history of organisations in Norwegian society is positive. The Christian People's Party has been promoting two or three years ago an own proposal to secure the negative freedom of organisation. We don't want it to be coerced when it comes to organisational relationships. We believe that this freedom is secure in Ot. pp. No 3 for 1998-1999. The positive and negative freedom of organisation is covered by the three human rights conventions made into Norwegian law. This is the difference between the situation and the status in relation to when the Christian People's Party took up a proposal to clarify this in Norwegian law, as it has emerged that the negative rights of organisation were not crystal clear. In our correspondence with the Department, we have received a letter stating that the positive and negative rights of association are guaranteed in Norwegian law after the incorporation of the three conventions. The Christian People's Party has confidence in the Ministry's assessment, and will continue to follow up and ensure that this is passed on in practice and in the Norwegian legal system. We imagine that there will be some legal information on this issue, and in the outcome of these proceedings we will follow closely to see if the legal certainty is real. Should freedom of organisation be challenged or not put into practice in Norwegian society and in the legal system, the Christian People's Party will not hesitate to address this issue. However, in the light of the legal situation today, we will choose to state that the positive and negative rights of organisation are guaranteed. According to promises from the Ministry and after the incorporation of the three human rights conventions, this would be sufficient certainty in Norwegian society. On this background, the Christian People's Party points out in the setting that such a new clarification in Norwegian law is unnecessary. But the birthright from the Stortinget to the Norwegian people today is that the positive and the negative right of association is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e436	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e439	It does not surprise me so much that the last speaker, as has been present during the debate, once again talks about the negative freedom of organisation without clarifying what he means by it. Does this mean that these organisational clauses, which make it a condition of employment that you are a member of an organisation, are illegal? Or what else does the negative freedom of organisation mean, when the majority say that the proposal is unnecessary? There is therefore no contradiction to the proposal, but it is unnecessary. This means that you agree with the content of Section 4 of the proposal set out in column 1 on page 2 of the setting. And that means that in that case there is complete disagreement between the Workers' Party, which states in its view that one should continue to have organisational clauses, they are legal, and the view that appears in Section 4, where it states that organisational clauses are illegal. What position does the Christian People’s Party take on this matter? If you think that our proposal is unnecessary, everything is fine – then you have joined it. The funny thing is that the Labour Party representative has also said that the proposal is unnecessary, even if it is against it.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e448	The Christian People's Party believes that an additional determination of the negative organizational right is unnecessary. On that basis, it is also clear to us that organisational clauses are illegal. With the incorporation that has taken place in these human rights conventions, we think that there should be sufficient legal basis to claim that the freedom of association in Norway is real. I also said in my first post that if things were to happen in Norwegian society or in the judicial system, the Christian People's Party would take up this matter – if it were not to vote or be interpreted in this way in society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e455	Unfortunately, to a certain extent, I felt that it was more than an inaccuracy when, at the beginning of his speech, Gedrom said that the Christian People's Party had a commitment to freedom of association. Some of the problem is, as Gundersen also took up in his line, that it's unclear what the majority thinks. Gedrem clearly states that he is against organisational obligations, and that this will be respected by the human rights law adopted by the Stortinget. And then I've shown earlier on this pulpit that the government itself says in Ot.prp. No 3 for 1998-99 that there is little reason to assume, however, that the situation will in practice be substantially altered by an incorporation of these three conventions. It goes on the protection of the negative freedom of organisation. Therefore, it will be clarifying for the interpretation of this case about Gedrem to confirm once again that it is not only a Christian People's Party that still believes that organisational obligations should be prohibited, but that the other two government parties in the Stortinget are included.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e463	I stand by the fact that the Christian People's Party has had and also has a commitment to human rights, and that we clearly regard this freedom as an important part – at least as an essential part – of human rights in Norway as well. We have contributed to the greater attention on these issues by appointing a government council for human rights, and have made a proposal that was adopted here in the Stortinge. That's why I think I have proof that we have had such an involvement, and that's of course true in today's situation as well. Based on what I said in the last line, I would just repeat that with the new situation we have in Norwegian right now, it would be sufficient. However, if this were not to give justice in both directions, the Christian People's Party will follow this up, and I believe that it applies to the Government in general on the basis of the letter given to the Committee that one will syte to follow up that such a legal situation will become a reality in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e471	It was good to get this clarification from the Christian People's Party. I will allow myself to request an answer that elaborates this a little further. As far as the negative organizational right is concerned, as I understand it, the Christian People's Party believes that this should be completely equivalently protected in Norwegian law. Then the question is: is it also applicable in e.g. the cases where the obligation of organisation was known to the employee when he got the job? I assume it's this broad interpretation, because it's important, as the Christian People's Party uses when they say they're against these organizational clauses. I repeat that even though this was known to the employee by appointment with organisational obligations, I understand that the Christian People's Party believes that these clauses are to be perceived as illegal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e478	I can only briefly reply to the last line that the Christian People's Party believes that there is no possibility of discriminating against employees or others because of association.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e483	The representative of the Christian People's Party has presented his view of it with freedom of organization and how it works here in the country. I have to say that it seems to me that you've been little out of work and seen how the practice is. There is no doubt about the close links between the LO and the Workers' Party. In the past, there were also some people in the labour market who had been forced to register in the Workers' Party. When I applied for employment in a cooperative team, I was told that it was a membership obligation, and without becoming a member of the LO, there was no possibility of getting a job. By being a member there, the Workers' Party is also supported financially. It seems that some here in this room think it's okay, and I'm sorry. It seems to me that when you are employed in cooperatives you are forced to register in the Workers' Party, even if you are a member of another party, and you pay a part of your salary to the Workers' Party. That this does not concern the Christian People's Party, I regret.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e488	I would like to assess it so that I have a reasonable knowledge of Norwegian working life, and I am one of them in this room who has quite a lot of speed within this field, so I think I should have a good enough knowledge of how it works. That one should secure this freedom of organization, and that one could not support this form of pressure that has existed in society, is of course. the background to the Christian People's Party that party has come out with this hold. I think it is right for the discussion to be part of – it is very focused on the negative right of organisation here – to stress that there is a lot of work in their organisations that is very useful and good for the development of society, but I think it is a human right to have the freedom to choose, and that the organisation life in Norway should develop so that there is a real freedom for workers and others to choose its form of association. When it comes to the relationship between the LO and the Workers' Party, it's an example, but it shouldn't be overfocused here. But the Christian People's Party has repeatedly said that one has seen it as little like the close relationship between the Landsorganisation and the Labour Party, and that we preferred to see other forms of cooperation developed between two important players in the political life that we all meet. It's probably something from the background that the Christian People's Party has this clear view of freedom of organization.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e497	It is rare that a big debate is as clarifying as this one. Now I had intended to quote from Apelthun Säles posts on May 20, 1997, where she said: «Christian People's Party considers it very unfortunate that there are examples of mandatory membership in some organisations». So to this extent, what is being said here by Gedrem is entirely in line with what she said at the time. It is now made clear that the reason why we want to reject our proposal is that we believe that the legal situation today makes the organisational clauses illegal. And that means they're really invalid. So these organisational clauses that the Landsorganisation operates with are, in the view of the Christian People's Party, invalid because they are contrary to Norwegian law. Now it is possible that they will not abolish these clauses with the first. And my question to Gedrem is, what should be done if they continue with these clauses that, in our opinion, are contrary to Norwegian law? It is possible that in a year's time I will be promoting this proposal again. If these clauses are still in operation, could Gedrem think of supporting a bill?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e509	Yes, the Christian People's Party honestly believes what's in the setting. We don't think that's the basis for making this bill because it's all covered by existing Norwegian law. We will also be involved in legal developments in this area. We have the confidence in the ministry, on the basis of the written text sent to the committee, that the ministry will also be involved in legal developments when it comes to this issue. It is clear that there will be some testing of this principle in the future, and I have also received a request here that is on the way into the judicial system. If the legal developments were not in accordance with the provisions of this provision, we assume that the Department will provide a preliminary initiative to ensure that this measure is properly specified in the Norwegian legal system.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e514	So the line change is over. The President will now propose that those who come to the debate on this matter be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes – and consider it adopted. The President will also propose that the succession of lines be limited to up to three lines – and considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e521	I would like to point out that I think it is a little strange to introduce a three-minute speaking time ten seconds before a main speaker from a party is going to the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e526	Yes, but it's for those who draw themselves here, so it doesn't apply to Ryssdal.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e529	All right, that was a useful clarification. In this case, the majority of the committees have shown that proposals for freedom of organisation have been made several times in the past. That's right. But when a proposal comes back – over a period of quite many years – it is often a sign that the Stortinget is actually facing an unresolved problem. The problem is that the real freedom of organisation — as most people define it — is broken in Norway, and that the majority of population is not willing to do anything about it. The right was asked a question through an opinion polling institute to a representative population. People were asked how they suggested that ‘it is in some workplaces, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. in consumer co-operation shops, the employees are required to be organised in the LO’. 58 pst. I thought this was wrong, 17 pst. That's right. Even among the Labour Party's voters, there was a similar majority – 54 pst-24 pst. The majority’s comments in the setting of this case are alarming for several reasons: The government parties are disappointed that they have lost interest in clarifying the content of the real freedom of organisation in Norwegian law.The working party is surprised by claiming that the proposal of the representatives Gundersen and Simonsen are unnecessary. We have been told that in this debate, and that is good. But there's still a strange majority coalition in this position. The majority point out that the adopted human rights law clarifies the rights in question. But as I have pointed out earlier from the pulpit, the government says even though these matters are in Ot.prp. No 3rd@item: ‘In other words, it may be assumed that the negative aspect of freedom of organisation is protected by Norwegian law. The degree of protection must be clarified by case-law.’ What is important, and which I want to repeat, is: ‘However, there is little reason to believe that the situation will in practice be substantially changed by the incorporation of the European Convention on Human Rights, the Convention on Civil and Political Rights and the Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.’.» The working party, and in particular the rapporteur-in-chief, has claimed that the proposal is the coin of unorganised. No, if a reader reads Section 2 of the proposal, it says: «Workers have complete freedom to join the trade union they wish or to stand outside any trade union.» In other words, it is both the positive and the negative freedom of organisation laid down in the proposal, and it has been important for the Right to support it. The problem in Norwegian working life today is that the freedom of organisation in today’s Norway is primarily a problem for members of competing trade unions who are forced to join the LO. The paradox in relation to what some speakers from the Labour Party have said is that it is not the rights of employees who are threatened by the proposal here, but it is some employers who are outside the Main Agreement, who may lose the right – in cooperation with their main trade union – to coerce their workers. It is particularly disappointing that the Christian People's Party and the Central Party do not follow up their views from the consideration of the corresponding case two years ago. Then these two parties submitted proposals that the government at that time should make proposals as ensuring real freedom of organisation for all Norwegian workers, and in the comments they expressed that organisational obligations were contrary to their interpretation of such genuine freedom of organisation. It is good that this has been confirmed today. However, the then representative of the Municipal Committee of the Center Party, Morten Lund, confirmed as late as last autumn, in a newspaper essay in Today's Business on 17 November 1998, that he was not sure that the Government's proposal on the Human Rights Act was enough to put an end to the fact that LO-owned companies require that the employees are members of the LO. He said, ‘I would therefore like to assess whether there is a need for a separate law on freedom of organisation or whether we should amend other laws, such as the Working Environment Act, in order to make forced membership of a particular professional organisation illegal.’ The government parties have not followed up in this setting. After the debate, it is no longer uncertain whether the Government parties have left their position. But what matters point out is that they have now chosen to tone it down and leave disputes to the judiciary so as not to provoke the LO in the government position. If the latter were the case, let me recommend to the Christian People's Party to reconsider as soon as possible. A party that is so concerned with freedom of belief and with the right of parent in school cannot, with the conscience of skeptics, violate the political freedom of persons in Norwegian working life. Another factor is that the solution chosen is to refer ambiguities to the judiciary, so much so favoring persons or groups of financial resources to go to court. The majority’s attitude on other issues is poor in helping vulnerable groups. Organisational obligations are the reason for the main dispute in the interpretation of the degree of protection of freedom of organisation in Norway. Another important aspect is the economic favouring of workers, depending on whether they are organised or not. Professor Jakhelln, one of the Norwegian experts in labour law, concluded in connection with newspaper redrafting on a current case earlier this year, which is also described in the suspension, that such a preference does not conflict with the law in force because individuals cannot rely on breaches of collective bargaining agreements. I have to say, for my part, that I find it strange that we should protect the organisations in the labour market so strongly that we will give them the right to negotiate benefits that will allow members to be covered by the membership quota several times. A parallel could be that the Stortinget said that party membership is so important to democracy that members of political parties should have a double vote in the event of major elections. Right wants to make it clear in the law that such a practice should not be admissible, and indicates that Section 4 of the proposal from Gundersen and Simonsen would have clarified this issue. The Human Rights Act hardly clarifies these conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e599	In the light of the debate, I would first like to express on behalf of the Left that if this is a discussion of the positive role of trade union movement in Norwegian social development, then this positive role is highly valued by the Left. But that is not what this is a debate about. The question here is whether this positive role should depend on the possibility, if any, of imposing membership on people in a particular professional organisation. That's one side. The second is what's related, as I said, the right to organize. It is clearly the view of the Left that people should have the right to be unorganised and nevertheless be able to have the work they would like to have – if the employer is thought to be qualified for this and he wants it. The question of organisational affiliation shall not affect whether or not a worker is wanted. The left was behind the decision taken on 29 May 1997 to investigate the issue of genuine freedom of organisation. I also refer to the Minister of Justice's reply in the Question Time on 1 April 1998. What, in our opinion, the proposers do not take inward is that, after this was dealt with in 1997, there has been a change in Norwegian legislation by incorporating the human rights conventions into Norwegian law, and that it is based on the assumption that this also ensures the negative freedom of organisation. It is a prerequisite for the Left's position not to vote in favour of the present proposal, that this is a correct view of these conventions. I would like to stress that as essential as the right to work is perceived in Norway, this must also mean that an employee can be appointed regardless of whether he is organised or not, or will organise himself or choose an organisation. I also refer to the provision in Section 55(A) of the Working Environment Act, which in fact says that you should not be able to ask about association with an employee organisation. And there's something strange about that rule if you were to at the same time allow organisational obligations. In any case, there is a rule that must also be understood in the light of the Convention obligations assumed by Norway, and on that basis I feel relatively confident that the negative organisational right in the broad sense is also guaranteed in the legal state of the day. Should it turn out against assumption not to vote, the Left will agree to re-enter the question.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e613	What's a little strange in this debate is that when you read the vote, it looks like the government parties and the Labour Party agree on this matter, which this debate has revealed is not being deleted. In fact, it is stated by this majority, which consists of both the government parties and the Workers' Party: ‘The majority refer to letters to the Committee of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs dated 27 April 1999 and agree that both the positive and the negative rights of the organisation are protected under Norwegian law by the Law on Human Rights. The proposal is therefore unnecessary.’ From this point of view, there seems to be a consensus between the middle parties and the Workers' Party, and you have to ask yourself, why have you formulated it this way? Is it to hide that you disagree? And is it that it should be necessary to have a debate in Stortinget to reveal that one disagrees? What may be some of the explanation for this lies in the difference between how the Workers' Party and the Government's parties define negative freedom of organisation. After all, the working party cannot believe anything other than that this should no longer be allowed to impose organisational obligations, is not part of the negative freedom of organisation. I have asked the case rapporteur from the Workers' Party what he means by negative freedom of organisation when it is still permitted to use organisational obligations, but, as most will have noticed, I really did not get a response to it, while the government parties now obviously believe that negative freedom of organisation requires that these organisational obligations with which the Landsorganisation operates disappear. Of course, the proposers are very satisfied with this. Here we come to a very interesting question of interpretation of the law. It has been referred to a Danish judgment that provided that these organisational obligations remain valid in Denmark, even though Denmark has acceded to the same conventions as we have. If this case is brought before a Norwegian court, the Court of Justice must state that a majority in Stortinget will remove these organisational obligations. Of course, a Norwegian court would have to stress the interpretation of this convention. Therefore, these opinions, which have come here, will have a certain legal significance. It will be a source of justice which must be taken into account when a court is to interpret this Convention. But then we are facing the funny situation that the same convention can be interpreted differently in Denmark and Norway. Here there are actually interesting views open to lawyers, and I hope that this will be properly mentioned in legal theory.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e627	It has been in many ways an interesting and clarifying debate, at least after the last articles, especially with regard to the Christian People's Party and the Left. What's a little strange in this case is the case spokesman's main post, where in many ways he referred to the laws that I got the impression that he might not fully understand himself. He also got five lines, and was to explain what the Labour Party – and he himself – meant about negative organisational freedom. I am used to trying to interpret answers in the best possible sense. It's one of my tasks that learns to do it because I think the elephant has the right to be interpreted like that – at least there's an attempt to do it. But I cannot see, after the case-speaker's remarks, that he has answered questions at all about how the Labour Party views this with negative organisational freedom. The only thing I came up with, if you're going to interpret it, is that it kind of had to be to hide that the Workers' Party really didn't want any negative organizational freedom. They want coercive organization, especially for LO, to fill up the particle box in the Workers' Party. When Leif Lund – after what he said himself – was laughing at the pulpit, I have to say that so far more people are laughing at Leif Lund than they are laughing at him in that way. It would have been fun to have heard the representative Leif Lund if there was coercive organisation in e.g. the YS, and that part of the organisational quota should go – let's say – to the Progress Party. Then I'll probably think, sir. Lund and the Workers' Party had demanded freedom of association and demanded to make parties and organisations independent of each other. It is also a pleasure to record what has now happened from the Christian People's Party and the Left's side. I assume that the Center Party shares that view, because the representative Morten Lund actually said in the fall that the human rights conventions might not have been enough to ensure the negative organizational right, but he had to look at it. I would also like to refer to the Norwegian Business Association's national meeting in Ålesund for approx. 14 days ago – it was 14 May, I believe. There was a debate in which the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, Einar Steensnæs, and the parliamentary leader of the Left, Gunnar Kvassheim, took part, and Morten Lund of the Central Party was the representative of the Central Party. All three trays of this document. The 8th proposal in that debate. Gunnar Kvassheim went so far that he said that this matter should now be legalized by handling the Stortinget; he referred to Document No. 8:36. But at least we've got a clearance, and I take that positive. So if doubts arise now, the Christian People's Party and the Left – I assume that the Center Party is also involved – will help to correct the biased conditions that this proposal points to. We look forward to getting the cleanup that it would then need.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e642	This issue concerns both principles and policies, and it has therefore gained a great deal of interest in the debate today. It is a political conflict between Community interests and individual rights. Human rights are individual, but if they are to be protected, a strong community is required to safeguard the rights. These are principles that we have to deal with. But this is also a political matter. You could say that there is a defence for free passengers. One could be tempted to comment on Lodve Solholm's posts where he uses as an example that if one joined the YS and this organisation had a collaboration with the Progress Party, the Progress Party would get part of the quota. The Progress Party, which is promoting the case, has a strong defence for free passengers, and it could well be that many of us as taxpayers could not want to pay taxes because parts of the tax go to party support for the Advance Party. “That’s not the way to think in a society, and that’s not the way to think if you want to do community construction and community construction. I think that historylessness may have been a bit big among those who have gone the hardest way out of this matter, because it is the story that can explain why the organisational obligation has arisen, why the clauses have come, and it requires some historical insight and some honesty in dealing with these concepts in assessing what kind of society we have today. I also believe that most people in the Progress Party are very happy that we have a clean, organized and orderly society today. Some aspects of the issue we are discussing today, we would not have had if you hadn't organized, and if you hadn't had in some areas, for example. the obligation of organisation or the tight framework for this, which we in a fundamental light and together with human rights can put some question mark on. So this is a pretty complicated thing, but it's important here to see that these are principles and policies that are opposed to each other. I believe that the proposers exaggerate the practical results of such a change. I don't think this would mean so much in practice. I perceive that what the Government has answered in its letter, and what the Stortinget has done when they have incorporated the European human rights into Norwegian law, will guarantee the negative freedom of organisation. When it comes to the discussion as to whether such organisational obligations are lawful or not, I interpret the Government's letter so that it does not consider that they are illegal in themselves, but that if such clauses, as it states, affect the core of the freedom of association, they constitute an infringement of the Convention. And if you go to the grand process of incorporating the human rights conventions, it's a chapter that's about whether these human rights conventions should take precedence over other Norwegian laws. It also discusses how the case-law in this area is to be applied, and also refers to European law, and there are some points for those referring to it. I understand that what is said here is that such clauses in themselves are not illegal, but that if there is a conflict, it is the human rights conventions and the provisions of those that apply, and there I perceive that the negative freedom of organisation is also protected. So you can discuss whether this is a matter that would have been more topical if you had been concerned about both the practical and the principal aspects of it, that it would have an effect if it had come before. I think so. I think such ways of organizing are on the way out. They had their justification in another time. I don't think that's the way you can recruit and keep members of an organization anymore; the system is out of date. I believe that the organisations that want to increase their membership numbers in the future need to market themselves with other and more positive instruments, and that, for example, it does. is asked who has influence and who is able to secure pay and employment, which becomes important in the future. The struggle for the protection of the free passengers that the Progress Party is at all times running is a political struggle, and I believe that it is quick to go wild in some primal steps and not see the political struggle that the Progress Party is conducting when they raise such matters. I feel confident that judicial decisions in such matters will prove that the negative right of association is also protected. But the political struggle that becomes important for the future is not this, but the struggle for everyone to be involved and contribute, so that we are not subject to legal rules that essentially protect free passengers in society.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e659	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e662	When it comes to free passengers, it works like this today that very many LO members are free passengers to the Party of Workers' Party. We need to be aware of this. And when Andersen's representative is now trying to pretend that we're not in order for people to be able to organize themselves, and that we don't realize the value of the organizations in society, in the business world, and the way they've been involved in building this society, you're pointing back to her. I always used to have good advice for my elephants when I was a teacher, and it was: Don't point at people, because remember, three fingers always point back at yourself! And in this case, I thought it must be right. So Karin Andersen tries to reconcile this with the fact that some people don't want to be part of an organization because one then pays into a party box, that tax also goes to party support for the Progress Party. There are two very different things! Membership of an organisation shall be a voluntary matter. Each person is given the opportunity to be a member — or not a member — of an organisation and to choose the organisation in which one will be a member and to pay the membership quota. So it's voluntary. Tax is something we in this house have imposed on the Norwegian people. It's been a bad thing about how high the treasure is at any time, but we all in this house have agreed that something must enter the community because there are some common tasks that have to be resolved. I just want to make sure that the Progress Party voted against the party support and proposed to take it away, but when others want to give us mild gifts from the state checkout, there would be no need for us not to accept them. If we didn't, the state would of course have distributed them to itself.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e673	The comparison with taxes was tempting because the Progress Party is constantly playing on people's unwillingness to participate in and finance actions that may not be the most in their hearts, and which it requires some compassion, insight and understanding of society to realize that must be in place. It's very difficult, I have to admit, to get hold of the Advancement Party's struggle for the Norwegian society to be organized, or the party's understanding that the trade movement and the movement of workers actually have the credit that this society is a civilised society. On the contrary, I perceive that the main arguments of the Advance Party are largely based on the fact that everything had been better without this, that everyone is doing the best seagoing, alone, and that it is largely both wasted time and wasted money paying to such organizations. If this is wrong, and if the Progress Party has changed policy in these areas, it is very pleasant. But this matter that has been raised here, I don't see politics as a struggle for the individual human being, but as a struggle against organizations that run important community construction in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e680	When the representative Karin Andersen challenged me to make a reply, it was linked to her saying that on the one hand, this matter concerned a number of principles, including: the question of human rights belonged. Then she later stated that the matter also had a side that was about politics, and that this had a relationship with the trade unions. I have to admit that the representative Karin Andersen then gave rise to a problem related to the distinction between principles on the one hand and politics on the other, because for a liberal, at least, it becomes a political issue to be faced with a number of principles relating to human rights on the other. I would therefore like to challenge her to explain the relationship between principles, among other things. human rights, on the one hand, and policies on the other. When it comes to the question of historylessness, it wasn't addressed to either the Left or the Middle Parties, so I guess I shouldn't let myself be provoked by it – and I guess I can agree in part on where it was directed. But I would like to stress clearly that when we talk about freedom of organisation here, a historically important struggle related to freedom of organisation has been the struggle for the right to organise. And it has to be clear that in a historical perspective, it has perhaps been a more important battle than that of the negative freedom of organisation. But that doesn't mean we're going to ignore it when it comes. And finally, in the case of organisational obligations clauses: This representative has thus come to realize that organisational obligations are becoming very difficult when Section 55A of the Working Environment Act prohibits asking for association with employee organisations. That must be a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e691	On the issue of principles and policies: I perceive that the principle of the right not to be associated with an organisation is respected by the decisions taken by turning the European Convention on Human Rights into Norwegian law. I perceive what is in the Government's dispensation of how this is to be perceived, so that the core of the freedom of association is protected, and that if there is a conflict, it will go ahead of agreements. Ergo is protected by principles. But the policy in that, which I perceive the proposers have been concerned about and which I deeply disagree with, is that they are most concerned about this in order to protect free passengers. They want to focus most on the problem by being organised, while for SV it is important to focus on the fact that it is just the organisations and the way to organise a society that is societal building. That's what we want to focus on politically. So I could also like to say that there is another important principle aspect to this question, and it's about the right to choose which organisation you want to be organized into. It is an important freedom and an important right that SV wants to protect.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e698	The representative Karin Andersen has on a few occasions mentioned the concept of the core of the negative freedom of organisation. I wonder what she means by that. It is possible that she affected it at the end of her statement now, that there was the right to choose between organisations, and that it does not mean the right to be unorganised. After all, she herself placed quite great emphasis on this concept, which she apparently has from the Ministry of Local Affairs. I would like to hear how she perceives this term.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e703	I don't think it's possible to go into this without seeing in what context it's set, and it's related to the issue of organisational obligations. I get to repeat what I said, that I perceive that what is being settled is that such organisational obligations are not illegal or contrary to the human rights conventions. There has been a point in the debate today about whether they are considered legal or illegal. I believe that they are legal, but if you get into a conflict where you touch the core, and the core is that you have the right to choose or not, it was said by the incorporation that the Stortinge did by the three human rights conventions, that these conventions are ranked before Norwegian law, and then also before agreements that have been concluded. – I hope it was clarifying.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e708	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e714	Professional organisational law is a matter of course in a democracy. For many workers, however, it has been a problem that many organisations are linked to particular political party colours. They have therefore refused for the organisations, so they may not have been organized. Nevertheless, it is important to establish that the court is ready, both to choose whether you want to be organised at all, and what trade union you want to belong to. Unfortunately, we have been presented with some bad examples, both through this debate and in the preparation of this matter, to people who have been pressured out of the job, who may have received incalculable dismissals, and there are also examples that people have been bullied because they are not organized or organized into 'failure' association. Such examples make me fully aware of the proposal being promoted today. I believe it must be clear that the requirement to belong to specific trade unions or political parties should not be imposed or have meaning in the case of employment. Nevertheless, there has been a lot of water in the sea since the last such proposal was made. I am thinking first and foremost of the two UN conventions and the European Convention on Human Rights which are now incorporated into the Norwegian law. There I believe that both the positive and the negative freedom of organisation is included. That is why the proposal is unnecessary today. At the same time, I would like to state that there is no longer any doubt that we have full freedom of organisation. How far the law is now going will show any future case-law. But I believe that we are quite strong when we have received both the European Convention on Human Rights, the United Nations Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights into Norwegian law. Then I think it is absolutely right that we give the new law a chance to work as we believe it should work.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e725	The debate tried to make a number of possible disagreements between the Labour Party and the Centre on the issue of freedom of organisation. In the Labour Party, we still agree with the majority. We agree with the Government's wording in a letter to the Committee. We're basing on what the government says: ‘The government attaches great importance to ensuring real organisational freedom in Norwegian working life.’ We agree. We also agree with the Government when it says in the letter, from which I quote briefly: ‘It has also stated that organisational obligations’ ‘will not always be contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. However, if such clauses, in view of the specific circumstances of the case, affect the core of the freedom of association, it would involve an infringement of the Convention. This has to be assessed in detail in each case.’ It is then easy to confuse the question of organisational responsibility with the question of the political struggle at work, i.e. the struggle to get workers to join the organisations. I don't think it's possible to legislate away from that fight. It'll always be there. I don't think it's desirable to legislate that kind of work struggle. There are questions about the right to be unorganized, and that's what's the appeal point. It was said by Solholm's representative that many LO members are free passengers to the Workers' Party – freely reproduced, but I think that's what he said. That is wrong, because then you can also say that when I am employed in a company, e.g. Elkem, like me, would like to give money to the right-hand side of Norwegian politics because the Society's main organisation or the Elkem group does that, and I agree to create the values that give the profits in the company. This type of issue is in many ways irrelevant to us who are employed in business, and it should be irrelevant in this relationship as well. No one is a member of the Labour Party through membership of the LO. I've been with and given money to religious organizations because they're doing an important job, even though I don't agree with the political foundation of these kinds of organizations. So it's important to distinguish between being a follower or an opponent of something and necessarily having to regulate. I ignore that disagreement. I actually thought the Advance Party was a supporter of that.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e746	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3544]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e760	In this case, proposals are made for the Stortinge to ask the Government to draw up rules for the establishment of asylum recipients which will give local authorities the right to the necessary information on the establishment so that the local authorities and the police/police officers concerned can prepare themselves properly. It further states in this proposal that municipal councils should be entitled to deal with the matter before the possible establishment of such asylum recipients. This proposal has been promoted, inter alia: having regard to criticisms from some local politicians about the lack of information and the lack of local involvement in the establishment of asylum-seekers in the municipalities. In other words, it is a matter of using the UDI – the Foreign Affairs Directorate – approach in setting up new asylum recipients. The purpose of this document is: The 8 proposal is therefore to establish legislation in the form of a regulation aimed at ensuring sound municipal treatment in which both residents and local authorities are to be given a better opportunity to comment before a final decision on the establishment of asylum facilities takes place. Today, the system of setting up asylum-seekers is such that asylum-seekers can be established in any municipality without the population or elected bodies of the municipality being opposed to establishment. But the important point in this case is that the municipality does not even have a right to proper information or the ability to particularly participate in the establishment process. So today, there is no law or regulation that clearly states that the State has an explicit obligation at UDI to provide information to the potential host municipality. This important information work is based solely on a few simple procedures that have been developed. The proposal under consideration is that these procedures should be replaced by a more complementary regulation which should contain clearer and more formalised guidelines on the obligations of the State and the UDI to provide information to the host municipality before the establishment of asylum recipients can take place. These regulations shall guarantee the right to a thorough information on all aspects of the plans, while at the same time granting the right to pursue a political process before such establishment takes place. The proposal does not imply that municipalities should have any kind of veto right to oppose such establishments, but only that the information procedures and the right to express their own views should be given a more formalised guarantee by means of their own regulations. A joint municipal committee agrees that, in the event of the establishment of asylum-seekers, close cooperation should be established as soon as possible between the local authorities, the State and the operator. As the rapporteur-in-Office, I am pleased that the descriptions and assessments of the facts that I have carried out in the pen have, to a large extent, been endorsed by an overall committee. I would therefore like to express some satisfaction at the fact that an overall committee is showing an understanding of the facts that are being identified and, to a large extent, the assessments that have been made. But the problem is strange enough, as the rapporteur sees, that the committee is not willing to take the decisions on instruments that can really meet what the committee seems to agree on. The Committee therefore rejects this proposal, even though it agrees that the information and participation of municipalities must be better than is the case today. The majority of the Committee expresses a clear concern that asylum-seekers can be established today without a significant additional burden being placed on the bodies, as you know, by the establishment of new asylum-seekers, such as the police, school, health and social services, being properly informed in good time. It is now, however, that although the Committee appears to agree with the biases that the proposal identifies and, in fact, wants changes in order to improve the information and impact capacity, it is strange that the Progress Party is standing alone to promote the proposal. Instead, the Committee majority emphasises that the information procedures should be more precise than they are today. It supports exactly the same intentions as those contained in the proposal, but, in the light of the opinion of the rapporteur, this will hardly produce the desired result. The question to be asked is how to improve the information system through the same procedures that have proved to be inadequate so far and which have motivated this proposal to a large extent. It is also very strange, in the opinion of the rapporteur, when the Workers' Party is not willing to agree to the comments of the majority of the Committee that the establishment of asylum-seekers entails significant obligations and challenges for the various departments of each municipality. The Workers' Party is also the only party that does not agree with the remark that municipalities should become more involved in the process, both in terms of the local council's right to speak, and in terms of the requirement for full and rapid information. This is what is at the heart of the matter, and this should also be part of the Workers' Party's recognition by joining the Committee majority's comments in this area. There is therefore reason to wonder whether it is the case that the Workers’ Party considers that there is no need for increased involvement of the local political level in such a controversial case as the establishment of asylum recipients is often. I am surprised at the rejection of the Workers' Party to present a sobering understanding of the reality of this complex problem, where even SV is included in these remarks. Since the President and the Advance Party are alone in promoting the proposal, I would be very sorry, as the members of the Committee mentioned earlier have in fact agreed to implement the content of the proposal in one way or another. The Progress Party believes that increased municipal influence over the various phases of the process of setting up asylum recipients is important. There are clear examples of conflicts around such establishments that could have been reduced if better consideration had been given to the local population or to the advice of local authorities. Especially in small municipalities, it may be difficult to handle such controversial issues in a good way. I am therefore very concerned that the local authorities and the local population have no formal authority or influence in such an important matter as the establishment of such asylum recipients. In my view, referendums should, in fact, also be part of the process of receiving asylum. It must be described as very unfortunate that asylum-seekers are set up against the will of the municipality or against the will of the local population, and even worse when it is done without sufficient information, as is often the case today. As I see it, it should therefore be up to the local government or a referendum to decide whether the establishment of asylum-seekers should take place. And although this is not part of the proposal, I choose to mention this as an orientation. The matter should in any case be the subject of a stronger local democratic process than it is today. An important step towards a more democratic and tidy process around the matter would have been to adopt the proposal that we are discussing today. But this is not going to be the case, and it's hoping that, after all, the committee, when it expresses agreement on the content of the proposal, somehow manages to fulfill the intentions as we want to. With these words, I would like to end my speech and, at the end of the day, address the proposal of the Progress Party referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e811	Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e814	The proposer considers that prior to the establishment of asylum reception facilities in a municipality, the local authorities shall have the right to comment and ask the Government to draw up rules for the establishment of asylum reception facilities, as the rapporteur briefed. The City Council shall also have the right to deal with the matter before any establishment of reception. Today it is the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs that is responsible for the overall principles, frameworks and leadership of today's reception apparatus for asylum seekers and refugees. However, it is UDI who is responsible for establishing and concluding operating agreements and thus contacting the municipalities and the operator. The Workers' Party supports the majority in rejecting the proposal. It has several reasons. The main reason is the need for many places quickly, as we have experienced in recent times during the war in Kosovo. Just in the last two months, a lot of new receptions have been opened. In fact, in the autumn of 1997, we had no more than 20 asylum recipients in this country, including a total of 2 000 residents. At the end of this month, we want 130 asylum recipients and 14,000 residents. It says something about the great variations we can experience. Where would we have placed all the refugees who have come from Kosovo in the last two months, if we could not have such a rapid procedure as we have today? A lot of people want to appreciate the work done here, including the municipalities. There are these great variations in need that are so hard to deal with. Therefore, all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, believe that it may not be right to give municipalities the right to veto the establishment of asylum facilities in the municipality. If we had done that, I think we'd be facing an even bigger challenge with the 14,000 people who are now in our reception than the one we already have. Yesterday there was a report that said something about how the refugees are doing in our receptions. There's a lot of things to get into, but there's a completely different debate that we're not going to take here today. Close cooperation between the country and local authorities is very important. Cooperation must start as early as possible during the planning and establishment phase. Municipalities must be involved in planning. They have local knowledge. Therefore, the majority, where the Workers' Party is involved, believe that the Foreign Affairs Directorate should place greater emphasis on informing the host municipality than at present. And UDI needs to be even better at establishing cooperation between the directorate, the host municipality and the relevant operator. If all parties are strengthened, it should not be necessary to lay down their own rules on such practices. The proposal should therefore be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e831	The reception of refugees is a state responsibility and should remain a state responsibility. The possibility of quickly establishing reception is necessary. The rapid arrival of refugees from Kosovo has underlined, not least for the last time. UDI has an important responsibility for information, and UDI can certainly be better. It is important that close cooperation be established between the State and the municipalities as early as possible. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has also asked the UDI to update on a weekly basis where new receptions are planned. For the Christian People's Party, it is important not to give municipalities a veto right to the establishment of new asylum recipients. I don't think that's necessary either. The rapporteur was concerned that the establishment could be controversial and that the local people should be able to have a referendum on whether to accept refugees. We who live in this country are allowed to move freely. It's not going to be persona non grata if I want to move from somewhere else. To introduce such a system, which I understood the Advance Party wanted, I would strongly distance myself from. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that we have a good and effective apparatus and a good cooperation between the state and the municipality in setting up asylum recipients. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposal in Document No. 8:40 is rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e840	The proposal addresses an important issue, but I believe that the answer that the proposal is asking for is a wrong answer. SV has an alternative way of dealing with this, which we think is right. Our attitude to this is that you have to build a system where municipalities can prepare themselves in advance to accept refugees, be ready and have a device, which is not always up and going, but which can be put into action in a very short time and be able to deal with such a situation as it is to have a refugee reception. We believe that it will be a much more correct and better end to begin with, and we strongly disagree that a municipality should be able to oppose the establishment of a refugee reception within its borders. It has been said by the representative Signe Eye that the report that came from SINTEF yesterday, on how it is in our refugee and asylum recipients, does not have much to do with this matter. I think it does, because it's about how these receptions are going to work for those who are going to live there. If we do not manage to make these asylum recipients better, it will not only be unnecessarily bad and difficult for both refugees and asylum seekers, but also more difficult to deal with than is necessary for the municipalities concerned. In today’s nations, Petter Drefvelin in the UDI says that we have ‘built places instead of focusing on the reception system’, and that this is one of the reasons why the situation has become as it is today, a situation where refugees and asylum seekers have a daily life that is marked by both economic poverty, unemployment, lack of work and major mental problems. Just in the acute situation that we are now in, with large numbers of refugees from Kosovo, it is difficult to cope with such long-term planning. Everyone understands that. To a large extent, however, it has not been the appropriateness of a place that has determined where an asylum-seeker should be located. What has been crucial when an asylum recipient has been established has been the chance to find a bankrupt hotel, a state college or another large building, and the fact that an operator has also been able to come up with an operator who has said he is willing to take the job. Many of the new operators have had little or no experience. Many municipalities also have no experience and suddenly have a huge task to deal with. Then there are conflicts, and we know that there are political forces that want to exploit and strengthen rather than dampen and solve them. In crisis situations, as it is now, this has had to go very fast. We agree with the majority who want this information to be provided in a much stronger and better way than what has been done in today's crisis situation. However, the proposal that the Progress Party is promoting today, and which has been proposed before, is very problematic, because it is going through an explicit municipal administration process, which comes when the situation is still such that the asylum-seeker will be established because it is necessary. It is that it is necessary, which must take precedence over such a situation. We fear that giving the local government such an opportunity will only build up under conflicts rather than dampen them. Our opinion is that such municipal involvement in that case will be too late. We will initially have a pre-arrangement system, a pre-communeration system, where you can enter into agreements in advance on how to deal with such an emergency situation. Then you will be able to trigger the positive will that exists around many municipalities. It's amazing how much such positive will there is. It will also be possible to establish – at least first – in those municipalities where there is a positive willingness to do so and where the population can be prepared in advance. I would like to address the proposal put forward in the vote and would ask the majority to consider that proposal. The first time that idea was raised was in the form of a note to the municipal budget last year. Then the government parties were also on the note. The former municipal and regional minister, Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad, promised to take a positive view of such a proposal and consider whether it could not be appropriate to think so. Now, when you see the report from SINTEF, where the asylum recipients, as it says, ‘are barely standing up’, something needs to be done in my view. This must be done in advance, and agreements must be made to ensure that municipalities are more prepared than they are today. There's a question of how much resources this is going to take, that is, how much idle you can have in a system. I don't think there has to be so much idleness in such a system, but you have to make more sure to get agreements and a system that allows you to take advantage of the positive attitude and readiness that can be present in several municipalities, and not pursue a policy where you set up reception in one municipality and set up in another municipality a few months later – a more random game, like SV and I don't mean to guarantee the quality and continuity that we have to build up in this system.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e859	Karin Andersen has taken up the suggestion she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e862	Of course, when I promoted this proposal, which is now referred to and under consideration, there was no war in Kosovo. So you could say that this proposal comes at the most unfortunate time that it could have done. Norway has never been to war before. Now we're at war. We have a share of responsibility for the war and the suffering people are suffering. The proposal is twofold. I was a little bit in doubt about the last part, because I was aware that it might be the one that could create problems. That the first part of the proposal would create difficulties, I couldn't in my wildest imagination dream of! Had we been at war when I promoted the proposal, it is clear that I had not included the last part that the local government should be able to deal with such matters. But that the committee and the Stortinget oppose the demand for information about what is going to happen in the municipality, I do not understand the bearer of! Then it becomes completely incomprehensible to me that Karin Andersen can oppose the obligation to provide information, and at the same time agree that the establishment will take place in close cooperation with the municipalities. How in the name of the Lord can one enter into a cooperation without informing? It's a mystery to me! Signe Eye said in her post that UDI should do yours and do something – yes, you can believe in Christmas! But today there is no instruction from the UDI to inform about either yours or your daughter. What is happening today is that an operator — to which it was just referred — who may be both unsuitable and inexperienced can look for a closed hotel, look for a closed school, danger around and sneeze in the countryside to find something to offer the local UDI office — to make money. These people aren't looking to be generous, to be kind or to act like the Salvation Army, they're looking to make money. It's a big store we're talking about. Obviously, the cheaper the facilities they can get, the more money they can make, because they have per person. Paragraph They have a certain amount for each person. First they have a base sum and then a sum per. head – modern slave trade. Then they come to the municipalities and say they've found a place where they can establish an asylum reception, and they're done with it. Municipalities are not allowed to refuse – accept! The majority has decided that we should have a multicultural society. It's all right, but how do we follow up on the integration of multicultural society? Do we do this in a good way by dumping a large population into the municipalities without people knowing it? Is it a sensible and good way to integrate new countrymen into this society? We can take a little example from school. The budgets are small, we know that. Special education is needed for many of our students, there is no room for it. Then there might be asylum seekers, and you get a population increase of 10 pst. in a municipality. Then there will be room for special education – to a large extent! Thank God, this money is not earmarked just for asylum seekers. The funds are earmarked, but they can also be used for the other students. In this sense, a balance is created. But in the first place, there could be a major conflict in schools in the municipalities that earmark funds and then use them only for asylum seekers. Do you understand that this can be harmful to that community? And don't you think it's harmful to the asylum seekers? I am not here to speak just for the communities, but one must also have a look at the asylum seekers who come to the country and who are to be integrated. How will they be met in the community when there is such discrimination? Have you thought about that? I think the committee has been too busy thinking about the office. The office shall not be trampled on its toes; they shall be allowed to hold on as they have been. They must not be subject to any new restrictions and must not be required to be informed. UDI informs them to the extent that they have time, they say. It's amazing how short-thinking the committee has been in this arrangement. I am most concerned that those who come to a municipality will be well received and integrated. But how can they be when people in the municipality don't know they're coming? How can we demand that people automatically accept asylum seekers when they are not informed that these peoples are coming? That is what is in my proposal. I don't think the committee has understood that. Then the representative of Østberg says that there is free movement in this country. No, that's not the case. There is no free movement in this country. You can't move and register in what you want – far from it! You often meet people's registers saying that you are not allowed to register in the municipality in question. You have to be so good at the municipality you're from. We have a fresh example from Vanylven. There was a man who had lived in Bergen for ten years, and the bitch was still in Bergen. He had long wanted to register in the public register in Vanylven municipality, but they refused because the bitch was still in Bergen – so it is far from free opportunity to move where you want in this country. I also think it is striking that when asylum recipients are established, the police will not even have to demand information. The police do not require information about the establishment of an asylum reception in a municipality. Think about it! Many of those who come here have had problems where they come from. They may have traumas, and they may come up in situations where police are needed to clean up. But the police know nothing about this – suddenly the population has increased by 10 p.m., and the police know nothing – not to mention health services, etc. Then it is made clear that we have had such good experience of receiving from Kosovo. Yes, we have good experience of receiving from Kosovo, precisely because there has been a lot of information here. There has been no lack of information on radio, TV or newspapers. Then the municipalities stood up and offered their help. Then we talk about integration, and then we talk about the local people being informed. Then you get an establishment and an integration as intended. But I don't understand why, in general, if you ignore the Kosovo situation, you shouldn't have the same obligation to inform local communities. It stands for me as a riddle. The Committee could, in my opinion, have done so much that they would have been in favour of the information section even if they had voted against the opinion section. But they haven't, it's clearly rejected. I think this testifies to shortsightedness.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e893	I think we all agree in this Chamber that it is important that the municipalities are best prepared when it is planned to establish reception for refugees and asylum seekers around the municipalities. I also know that the Foreign Affairs Directorate is busy providing the municipalities with information as quickly and as well as possible when establishing reception. The situations we have today show in many ways that having the close contact that we all want is not always as easy. Since Easter 80 new receptions have been created. We have received 6 000 refugees from Kosovo, as well as 850 asylum seekers came to the country in April, a much higher number than normal. Recently, it has actually been created in excess of one receipt every day. It shows some of the challenges you face on this side. And as the proposer also mentioned in his statement, the proposal came at an unfortunate time. If the proposer had been aware of what would be the situation, at least the last part of the proposal would not have been promoted. This shows that it's not always as easy to see what kind of challenges we're facing, even in the relatively short term. With regard to the exploitation of the receptions that have already been established, we are also facing a difficult dilemma here. On the one hand, it is an overall objective of Norwegian refugee policy that we should use the available resources in the refugee field in such a way that we can provide both protection and assistance to the maximum possible extent. On the other hand, it is desirable that the establishment of the necessary number of reception points should give municipalities time and opportunities to optimise the conditions for the reception of the refugees at all times. As I have already said, this is not always consistent. The objective of maximising the use of resources in the refugee field involves, inter alia: require 90 pst. of the reception points shall be covered at all times. The Foreign Affairs Directorate also has the possibility to enter into contracts for up to 500 emergency facilities paid by the State, regardless of whether they are used or not. These relatively small margins in the reception system mean that an increase in asylum arrivals relatively quickly creates the need for the establishment of new receptions or the extension of already existing receptions. The need for reception facilities has varied considerably over time. When the refugees from Bosnia arrived in Norway in 1993 and 1994, we received 147 in April 1994. However, lower arrival rates reduced the need for reception points, and in December 1997 we were down to 19 reception points. The refugee picture changed again with the arrival of refugees from eastern Slavonia in Croatia and a general increase in the number of asylum seekers seeking protection in Norway. The situation in Kosovo and the decision to accept 6,000 refugees have further increased the need for reception facilities, and on 26 May this year, as I said, we had 130 receptions at the base of 17 000 places. A new reception has been opened every single day in the last few months, so today the numbers are higher than just a few days ago. The Directorate for Foreign Affairs naturally has enough experience in setting up and terminating asylum recipients and also has established and established procedures for this work. When the Director of Foreign Affairs intends to establish a reception with a non-municipal operator, the Director of Foreign Affairs or the Administrative Manager of the municipality concerned informs as soon as possible after they have been in contact with a potential private operator. In the subsequent dialogue with the municipality, it is decided whether to hold a separate meeting with the administration, and in smaller municipalities, discussions are usually held on how to inform citizens about the matter. In principle, the State may establish refugee reception facilities in any municipality. Therefore, in situations where the need for reception points is high, the State may use its right to conclude reception arrangements with non-municipal actors even if the host municipality does not support such establishments, provided that such establishment is in line with applicable laws and regulations. Of course, this is not a desirable situation for either the state or the municipalities. However, it is important that, when required, the Foreign Affairs Directorate can establish the necessary number of reception points in the shortest possible time, and I am sure that the Directorate will seek to establish close cooperation between the State and the Municipality as early as possible during the planning and establishment phase. Even in the difficult situation we have been through in the last two months, considerable attention has been paid to this both by the Ministry and by the Foreign Directorates, and this will be followed up. It is a priority task to establish good cooperation between the host municipalities, the relevant operators and the Foreign Affairs Directorate. Even with the directorate's routine and long experience in establishing reception, I don't think we can avoid that there are municipalities from time to time that want more and better information, and that would have wanted to discuss the establishment of refugee receptions on the local government until the reception is actually in operation. Perhaps the main reason for such situations is that it is impossible to predict how many refugees will seek asylum in Norway at any time. So we don't know how many reception places we need in two or four weeks. This is an uncertainty that we unfortunately have to live with within today's system. However, together with the Foreign Affairs Directorate, we will look at how we can inform municipalities even better about the establishment of new receptions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e912	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e916	: I record that the Minister of State referred to how it should be. I said in my post what it's like in practice. And it's going on like I said. I refer to my own municipality of residence, where I know how the practice is going on. The head of the local UDI office says they will inform you if they have time. The private operator comes to the municipality and says, "We're setting up asylum recipients, and you can't deny them." UDI does not take initiatives towards the municipality in practice. No, it's a private operator, and I guess that's the case in most municipalities where there's a private operator that creates asylum recipients. So the rule of exception is usually applied to the municipalities, and then my question becomes to the municipal minister: What does he intend to do to bring the legislation into line with practice, or – to put it another way – get the practice in line with the legislation? The rule of exception that a municipality cannot refuse was to be used in emergency cases, but it is used – I dare say – in most cases, and there is no wish situation.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e921	Let me first of all make it clear that in the situation we are now in, there has been a fantastic goodwill from municipalities around the whole country in relation to setting up and establishing asylum facilities. There were municipalities that closed the extraordinary Presidency meeting early in the morning just over Easter, made a decision to establish reception, contacted either the Ministry or the Foreign Affairs Directorate and offered to establish either municipal reception or to contribute to the establishment of a private reception. This has, in essence, been the situation at this time — a fantastic willingness to face up to a difficult situation. We're dependent on that. We are also dependent on having a good cooperation with the municipalities. There is no need for any conflict or disagreement between the municipalities and the Directorate of Foreign Affairs in relation to the establishment of reception, either the Directorate of Foreign Affairs or the Department. Having said that, I would like to repeat that in the last few months we have experienced a very difficult situation, with the establishment of a large number of receptions, approx. 1 per cent today, and it goes without saying that it is not always as easy to implement and maintain established procedures. However, the procedures for the directorate are, as I said in my main post, that they should be briefed, usually the councillor or administrator of the municipality concerned, as soon as possible after contacting a possible private operator. It's supposed to be a close dialogue. Of course, I can't ignore the fact that in individual cases it deviates from what is UDI's own rules. But, as I said in my post, we will also follow this up with the Foreign Affairs Directorate and look at what can be further improved, to make sure that there is as close a contact and as good information as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e930	It becomes a little too easy when the majority points out that this was a crisis, a refugee crisis that evolved so quickly that there was no time for proper information. It is often the case that these crises are known well in advance, and I believe that UDI is doing a very bad job. I would almost believe that the urgent work to which it was put was a chosen strategy to avoid debates on this controversial issue. It's actually in many cases good time to deal with this, but the UDI is too slow, and a prescription had no doubt tightened up the UDI. But I want to ask the Council of State: how will he now tighten up the procedures so that we get the information question on the rails, in line with the intentions of the proposal we are dealing with today?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e937	The situation is that today the last flight of refugees from Kosovo arrives; during the day we will have received the 6,000 refugees that Norway has undertaken to accept from Kosovo. This means that the pressure on the creation of new asylum recipients and the pressure on UDI’s activities — and hopefully — is likely to slow down in the next few days. We are facing new major challenges in relation to housing, in relation to integration, in relation to training. I can promise that we still have huge problems to solve. But the fact that we will have accepted the last flight of refugees in the course of the day also means that we will have an opportunity to sit down and evaluate the experiences of the two months that have passed, where we have had a situation that has been extremely hectic and extremely demanding both for municipalities, for private operators and for UDI. It'll be done, we'll go through the experiences and look at what we can do better. I disagree with the representative Torbjørn Andersen that the crises are well known in advance. I actually don't think there was anyone who could predict what was going to happen, how huge the flow of refugees was going to be, when you took the Easter break. During the Passover it exploded, and already a few days over Easter we faced a situation that required that we acted quickly. It is Stortinget who has made a request for 90 pst. capacity utilisation in reception, and therefore it is not possible to have a large overcapacity in reception points. Nor will it be necessary in a normal situation. With the intervention of the representative Torbjørn Andersen, that referendums are to be held in order to be established, it would not be possible to accept asylum seekers or refugees at all in such a situation as we have now faced. And – if I may, President – it is in many ways a continuation of the debate that we had here some time ago, where the same representative did not want us to accept refugees from Kosovo at all.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e948	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e951	It was Mr. Bastisen's contribution that made me need to speak. He cannot understand why SV has not been able to support the proposal he has promoted, and in particular what is going on in information. Information is a matter of course, and we want it to be strengthened. We have put forward a proposal that would allow agreements to be made in advance with some municipalities that have agreed to be ready and prepared. We think it's a much better way to tackle this problem than to get an opportunity to speak in retrospect. The question will then be whether or not to attach this to a prescription. That's the first part of the proposal. We've thought that this is essentially not necessary. We see it this way that the government should consider whether it is necessary or not. But I would say that if the situation we've had now, and the report that we haven't had time to review yet, shows that there is a need for some changes in this system, I don't ignore the fact that you can get back to it. Then the representative Bastesen took up, as he sailed, that the proposal might come at an inappropriate time because the last sentence was in and could give the impression that a municipality could say no, and that it was very inappropriate because Norway is now seafaring involved in a war and has a special responsibility for the refugees who come from this war. I must admit that the coupling of the two parts of the proposal is problematic. I also agree that Norway has a very special responsibility in relation to these refugees because we are actually involved in the war, but that there should be a special, different situation in reality for each individual refugee whether he flees from one conflict or the other, I deeply disagree with that. We get a lot of information about what is happening in Kosovo and in the war in the Balkans, sail if it is possible to question parts of that information, and whether we are fully informed about all sides. But there are many conflicts around the world that don't take us that way, and that don't get any attention at all, where the situation can be at least as dramatic and terrible to the refugees. The fact that this information is not as high on our agenda may make the understanding of these problems not present in the same way. It requires reliable information between the person setting up a refugee recipient and those who are to accept it. But it's very difficult not to get a sense that the people's opinion here is to be given too much importance in the individual municipality, that it's part of the intention of the proposal. This may affect refugees coming from disaster and conflict areas in at least the same need as those who are now refugees from Kosovo, and due to a lack of information in the Norwegian media and a lack of high levels on the agenda, this should turn out to be a negative direction. I'm afraid so. So a little more concrete about the proposal that SV has made. The proposal does not mean that we want a large overcapacity to be in the system. Standing agreements are sought between the UDI, the state and the municipalities, which allow them to have a system that can come up and go on short notice. As it is now, they have to get this system up and go anyway, and it would be an advantage if you had got hold of the municipalities that could be interested at any time and that could be prepared in a different way than others. The Municipal Committee was on a trip to Eastfold last year. Then we visited two neighbouring municipalities. One municipality had an asylum reception, which had been closed because the need was gone, and that's fine. Then we came to another municipality that had just established an asylum reception, and they were very unprepared for that. They tackled it and they did as best they could, but they were very unprepared, while the neighboring municipality that very much wanted to have this asylum reception, didn't get it, sailed if they had experience and could have done this in a more convenient way. There's a lot of situations like this that I think we could avoid, and I think there's a lot of capacity and expertise in the system just that we're getting better at systematizing it and making agreements. It's expensive to be prepared. It will probably also cost something to have such ready-to-use municipalities, but I think we need a complete overview of how expensive it is, and how bad it can be if we don't have a higher level of preparedness than what we have today. We do not have an overview of the costs of a system that is not prepared to accept such refugee peaks as we now have, and what extra costs it incurs when you have to settle on your legs as many reception places as you have had to do in the last few weeks. So what costs the most is hard to say. I think we're going to get quality here, which will benefit asylum seekers and refugees as well as Norwegian society, it can pay off both in the short and long term to set up a system that is capable of dealing with the situation better than we are today.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e968	Now the Directorate of Foreign Affairs sends letters to the municipalities of the country asking them to set up the largest settlement of refugees that has ever been carried out here in the country. During this year 13 000 people will be settled. It is clear that in such a settlement we depend on the local authority-Norway to set up. This is when I am wondering about the position that has come – following a good initiative from the representative of Bastesen – that the municipalities should not be taken seriously, and that the municipalities should not be consulted on these matters. We have too many examples of the fact that, when it comes to the settlement and relocation of asylum seekers and refugees, municipalities are only told. The Ministry does not have a dialogue with the municipalities, nor does UDI, and suddenly a reception apparatus has been set up, and asylum seekers and refugees have been driven out into the municipalities. The overrun that is now seen by the majority when they reject this proposal shows that they are not at all in line with the party programmes on which individual elections have been held. When I study the Central Party party program, which likes to talk about local self-government and how important it is that local politicians have something they should have said on important issues, and see what they underline in their programme, I am very disappointed. I am very disappointed that the Minister in this area is not more positive about having a dialogue with the municipalities. For what one sees around the municipalities is that once the decisions have been taken, and the individual municipalities have to accept the persons after they have had a transit reception, they get the big problems. I don't think the work of getting the people who have come to the country into the municipality of Norway is really beneficial, that local self-government is not being followed up at all. It is also strange that the Workers' Party, which at least in some municipalities has spoken locally warmly that a person must have a dialogue with the municipalities, has not followed up the initiative of the representative Bastisen in this setting. As a result, in practical policy, the UDI/Ministry may overrun the individual municipality. When you act in this way, it becomes small and puzzled what is left of municipal autonomy. I am pleased that the Bastisen has addressed this proposal. I also welcome the discussion and debate on this. I think, like the minority here in this room that is dissatisfied with this, that this is an important matter for the municipalities around. And I think there are a lot of declared party traps for those who make up the majority today, who can see a future in a meeting where there's a big difference between what the parties decide locally and do locally, what the individual party prioritizes in party speeches and election struggles, and what they do in practice. It deeply disappoints me.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e979	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e982	The representative Kleppe must clarify what he means. Does he mean that each local government should be able to refuse to establish a refugee reception, or is this about getting better information, being heard and getting in dialogue? It has been said by the majority of the Committee that efforts will be stepped up and that it is important. I have a feeling that when Vidar Kleppe here talks about the local maritime administration, it's about the right to say no to establish a refugee reception, and it's taken a clear stand for that. In the post from Kleppe now both this was to be heard, get information and get into the dialogue grutting together a little, and it became very unclear what it was the representative Kleppe really had on his heart.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e989	Among other things, I have e.g. on the heart The central party on page 7 of its programme on the rule of law says: ‘The work of elected bodies must be carried out in such a way that people are given access to work and the possibility of influence over decisions taken.’ I.e.: «decisions taken». Similarly, SV emphasises it in its program. In the case of local self-government, one must accept the right of the individual local government on a democratic basis to say no, after receiving a request from the UDI for the reception and establishment of asylum recipients, if it is a political majority. That must be perfectly obvious! The right to say no must be equal to the right to say yes. But what the majority put up for here in the vote is that they don't want anything but a dialogue with the municipalities that are willing to accept. Those who are negative and raise objections, they won't listen at all. And then you risk driving over the local self-government, which someone else is so concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1003	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1007	Just to clarify a couple of things. First to the representative Karin Andersen: I have said in the past that the department is of course in favour of having a dialogue with the municipalities to try to obtain arrangements that involve a certain readiness both to maintain competence and some form of preparedness in situations where we have a small need for reception. But I would like to refer again to the fact that in the last two months we have actually received 6 000 refugees from Kosovo plus more than 1 000 refugees and asylum seekers from other areas. We have per cent. receive today 130. A single receipt has been created every day in the last two months. This shows, in my opinion, that there is both flexibility and that the municipalities and the recipients are able to handle this at relatively short notice. That doesn't mean things can't get better. Of course, we should contribute to improvements, but I think we have to acknowledge and accept that both UDI, municipalities and private receivers have done a formidable job in the last few months. So to the representative Kleppe: Of course, it's not right that the department, or as I have understood, the majority in this room, don't want a dialogue with the municipalities. Of course, we want a closer dialogue and best cooperation with the municipalities in relation to the creation of reception. The department does not want and the majority in this Chamber does not want this to be done. It is clear that here there is a great difference between the views that are being borne out by the Progress Party, and what I have seen the other parties have said, both when the representative Kleppe wants the municipalities to have the opportunity to say no to establish reception, and also in relation to a regulatory fixing of information. We're going to have a closer dialogue, we're going to have the best possible cooperation with the municipalities. It is essential to achieve good cooperation. Also, the letter sent from the UDI on the settlement of refugees must not be mixed with the need to establish reception. These are two very different things. The settlement of refugees and asylum seekers is an ordinary settlement in line with all other settlements. It's to get them out of reception as soon as possible. There is no good situation to be in reception over a long time. It has also shown the report submitted earlier this week. UDI's objective is that no one should be in reception for more than six months. This objective is difficult to achieve because there has been a slowness to settle in sufficient numbers as quickly as possible. In this area too, efforts are now being made by both the Department and the UDI. But we're talking here about completely different issues than creating reception. And to add it, of course, it is not possible to settle in a municipality against the will of the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1022	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3544]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1036	The President will propose that the debate be limited to the speaking of one representative of each party and that those who are then given the floor have a speaking time limited to 3 minutes. The President will also propose that the replacement of the lines be limited to 3 lines. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1041	Inner. S. No 188 of the Municipal Committee refers to a proposal from the Landingsrepresentatives Lodve Solholm, Torbjørn Andersen and Vidar Kleppe to wind up the County Municipality as an independent level of administration. Nobody disagrees that we should have a modern and efficient public sector, and that it is necessary to look at today's organisation and whether it is good enough. We may never experience that there is no shortage of resources in the public sector. Therefore, the use of resources must be optimised, and therefore the organisation must be appropriate and serve the tasks to be given the highest priority. That is why, on several occasions, the Storting has also decided that we need to evaluate today's system and the relationships between the levels of government, where the county is one of the three levels of government we have, and see if there is a need for change. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 2 for 1997-98 by the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, all parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, agreed that it was necessary to review the division of tasks and responsibilities between the levels of administration, including between the county office and the county council. Furthermore, in the context of the 1999 budgetary procedure, the Stortingen has appointed a State Modernisation Committee with a mandate to propose structural changes in the public sector in order to ensure more economic and human resources for elderly care, health, education and research, and to ensure public security. This Committee shall, inter alia: assess the relationship between administrative levels for simplification, including the relationship between central administration and local administration in order to eliminate unnecessary duplication of administration. Furthermore, the relationship between the county councils and the state administration shall be clarified in order to eliminate unnecessary duplication of administration. All these decisions have been taken by the Government. Two public sample sizes have been reduced and work is now being done to provide settings for the summer of 2000. It's one year ahead of time. It would be a reasonable time, but no longer than it would be necessary to review such extensive areas. This could involve major changes. A majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party, agree that there is an extensive work now in progress. It is therefore necessary to allow the sample to submit its proposals, and the majority consider that it is not appropriate to start work to wind up the county councils or to cancel the county elections for 1999, as proposed by the proposers. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Party for Progress and the Right, will therefore reject the proposal of the Party for Progress. So some comments on the actual document No. 8:43 proposal. I have to say it becomes a little remarkable when three representatives from the Progress Party promote a private proposal to wind up the county council as an independent level of government on 8 March this year, three weeks before the deadline for the lists of the county elections was to be delivered. The candidates were nominees — the process had been going on for some time and was about to get into port — and then these three large-scale representatives promote proposals that the county council should be closed from the fall of the year. I think that had this happened in the Workers' Party, there would be a lot of angry county candidates around. But that seems to be the way it is to deal with the big and heavy issues in the Progress Party. I also find it strange that an important background to the proposal is that the Storting has introduced intervention-driven funding in the health sector, and that this has deprived the county council of much of the governance and responsibility for the hospitals, as we can read in the text of the proposal. I must be allowed to ask the proposers: what governance and what responsibility are those who are away from the county's politicians after input-driven funding was used? The county councils continue to allocate the funds to the hospitals, but the politicians in the county council continue to distribute the tasks between the hospitals and remain the same persons as the employers for the employees. It becomes easy and almost comical when the proposers have tried a division of tasks at the closure of the county. The State shall assume responsibility for hospitals and health institutions, the State shall assume responsibility for the protection of children and families, and the State shall take over the care of the whole of it. Transport of disabled persons is transferred to the State as a whole. Secondary schools may either become foundations or be transferred to the primary municipalities. Roads and public transport are transferred to the State The question that is not concerned is: who is this state, or in other words, what apparatus in the state is it that is to take over all these tasks, and will it not also require many employees to manage all these tasks that are now to be transferred to the state? Or is it so to understand that all these positions are around the state? Finally, the Labour Party believes that it is necessary to continuously streamline and convert to new public sector tasks. There is a need for clearer responsibilities between administrative levels and a clearer focus on the results. That's why we're waiting with excitement for the samples that are currently running, which will have their conclusions ready for the next summer. It is likely to provide us with a good basis for taking the necessary decisions to achieve an efficient and good public sector at all levels. And therefore, for good reason, the majority rejects Document No. The 8th proposal to ask the Government to start work on the winding-up of the county and cancel the county election in September.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1069	The representative Eye was busy by the lightly comical. But I have to say that when one listens to the case manager's review of this, it doesn't just get a little comical, it becomes a lot of comical. When the representative eye can't get along with how to distribute this, and who that state is, a maybe take care of the pencil with the representative eye and go in and look at these matters. In this way, a cross-check can be made on the list and lead to price financing in healthcare, care and education, and then we see the real thing in the matter, that by having the financial responsibility for health, care and education, the state needs not a county municipality to administer. The fact that the county has not lost part of its governing rights because of the DRG system, is thanks to the fact that part of the majority here in this room is not yet understood to have this system functioned as well as possible, the unit price must go directly to each hospital and not to the county municipality, which then distributes frames from the county register to the individual hospital. This means that the hospital in one city, through efficient operation through unit price financing, does not get anything left because these funds, which go directly to the county municipality, are distributed to other hospitals that may not be so effective. But we've come a little way by getting the government party on our way. to increase the part. We're in real trouble, and I think the government party will follow the Progress Party and the Right when it comes to the fact that the piece price financing should be organised so that the money goes directly to the individual hospital based on the work being done there. When you have taken it, there is not much left of the Sign Eye argument. Because then the children's protection, the HVPU, the hospital, and the schools have been given an order. Who possibly runs a hospital, or who runs a school and produces the service that the government has to buy, doesn't play as much a role as we have the supply that people need. Then one of the glan numbers from the representative eye would be that the highways would become stately. Yes, given it was as well, because there's something that shows the county councils their lack of skill, it's exactly the county roads. One can travel around the country and the beach, and then one knows from local politicians and state politicians too, and not least from the business community, that what hinders efficient transport is very often not the municipal roads, nor the state roads, but the county road, which is in such a condition that they have to read a regular wagon train load on maybe both two and three wagon trains to carry the goods on a county road network. This includes: because the county has never taken the county roads seriously. They have our balancing item in the budget. I have a seat in the county for three periods and have some knowledge of how this has been. That's why we say: let the county roads that it's natural today to happen to a municipality become municipal roads, and let the county roads that it's natural that maybe become part of the common highway network, become that, and then we have the tribal road network, which we can transfer to the state road system and state funding. Signe Øyes' posts were an otherwise good defense to maintain the well-paid political wages for her party traps around the country. The county council has, in my opinion, its role. We're 4.2 million people in this country, and we shouldn't need as many agencies as we have. The county council is also not a body that most people know so much about; there is no choice that has as low selections as the county elections. And now the county in the new form has had over 20 years on it. One of the big tasks that I was presented when I got into the county office at the 1979 elections was that now we were going to profile the county council. We had the one county boat after the other around in Møre and Romesdal, as well as making the county municipality know and tell who was the county spokesman osb. But when we asked people about who was the chairman of More and Romsdal, we could get the answer that it was the governor, the chairman of Molde, or the spokesman of Ålesund. There were few people who came up with the right name, because people don't have a relationship with it. They have a relationship with the hospital, but they have no relationship with the county council. That's why it has its role to play. Another gloss number from the representative Eye was that a selection has been created that should look at some questions here. Yes, but I dare say to the representative that she, along with the plurality of this room, voiced a suggestion that the mandate for this selection should be extended, so that it would include an assessment of the closure of the county municipality. The voice of the plural down! And now one should use it as an argument that it should be in the mandate to make that assessment. That's not what I'm talking about. The Storting has knocked it down. The representative Eye is also trying to make fun of the fact that there is a point II that we're going to cancel the county elections for the autumn. Yes, one might like to ridicule it, but now it's so that at least in this party we might be able to have two thoughts in your head at the same time, something that clearly cannot be done by other parties. One is capable of doing two things, similar to the people in Åram and Sande, who have stood up on different municipal lists, whatever could happen here in the house. But it was also obvious that the representative had eye problems to follow with. It is clear that if it were to be agreed that one would lay down the county council, one could think that those who are currently in the county could only continue for one – another and a half years, maybe, until this was included. That some in the Labour Party would be angry because they would miss out on some well-paid jobs that they anticipated, I understand. But that would be a good argument to keep the county municipality, I can't see. Otherwise, I just want to show that the public debate outside this house is much more nuanced than the debate inside the house. There are increasing numbers who are now asking questions at the base of the county. There are more and more people in the public debate asking the question: is it true that we have the county municipality as a political administrative unit in a country with 4.2 million people? It's not that I'm all over the world happy in a certain current newspaper called the World Times. I could say a lot about it, and it has so far much about us – that's okay enough. But on the pitch on Wednesday, May 26, this year, after writing a lot about politicians' wages, which is that side of the case, write a: ‘First of all, we should be able to assess whether the county municipality is still entitled to do so. There will be more and more doubts. Many suggest that the county has survived itself and that its tasks can be entrusted to municipal and state authorities for the benefit of the community.’ I'm so united, so united. It's rare that I've had such an agreement with VG as in that particular case. And even if this proposal is rejected here today, I am overestimated that this proposal will win, and that within a ten-year period the county council will end – and I would like to say thank you for it! With these words, I will record the suggestions – from the Right and the Advance Party, and from the Progress Party – that have been included in the option on page 3.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1106	Lodve Solholm has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1111	Pretty short from my side. What made me take this line, was this with two thoughts in my head at the same time. I think the representative of the Progress Party, Lodve Solholm, should have thought through this matter a little more than he has done, because what is at the heart of this is this point II on cancelling the 1999 County elections. Of course it doesn't matter. Lodve Solholm should also clarify to Stortinget at what level he thinks these interests should be taken care of, as Signe Eye asked. Because it's clear that if we take away the county municipality, we have to create much bigger municipalities in Norway than we have today. I'll assume we have to cut down approx. 150 municipalities from what we have today, so that they can take care of today's level of services. This may be true once in the future, but it is not possible to take this on immediately before a county election in 1999. It has to be a thorough review, and at least we have to, I think, get the chance to think about it a little bit. So a little bit to this about the hoaxing over these well paid jobs in the county. At least I record that the politicians of the Progress Party are no better than the politicians of other parties when it comes to fees around the county municipalities, so I really think Lodve Solholm should have been able to comment. My question is, can he explain how he thinks about this solution, and when we might have to put down the county council once in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1122	Leif Lund was concerned about this with who was supposed to take care of. I told you. The state must have the financial responsibility. Whoever runs the hospital, whether it's a foundation or whether it's the state itself that owns it and runs it through a piece-of-price financing, it doesn't matter. It's the same thing when it's about the schools. It's the same thing when it comes to care. Then we don't necessarily need any kind of supremacy, because there's nothing left to take care of when some of the county roads are transferred to the state, and the others are transferred to the municipalities. There's a little bit of culture again, at 1 pst, and I believe that we can safely and with a good conscience transfer to the municipalities and to the private initiative. So Leif Lund says it's point II that's the essential in this case. Then there is no – and that is my outrageous claim – Leif Lund read the case, the file, because the essential thing is to shut down the county council, not necessarily to cancel the county election in 1999. The essential thing is that we now get an assessment of the county municipality's existence, nothing else. Then, sir. Lund has time, he said. The Labour Party has had time since 1990. I then make a similar proposal. That time we didn't have the right. Then the Progress Party was alone in this Chamber to support the proposal. Now we have achieved that Right is with us. We're happy about that. As I said at the end of my previous post: Maybe the Labour Party one day in the future will also voice this? When it comes to wages and the good pay for county jobs, I don't think that the people of the Progress Party are any better than the workers' party – far from it! But the larger it is, the reason to remove the county.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1133	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1136	The Christian People's Party sees democracy as the best form of governance in the development of societies. For us, individual human participation is a consequence of Scriptural stewardship. The Christian People's Party, in its programme of action for the current ageing period, says that the Christian People's Party is in favour of: ‘that the county function is evaluated for better coordination and rationalisation’. The government has followed this up, and the majority in this case also indicates that the majority of the family, cultural and administrative committee in the Budget Centre. S. No 2 for 1997-98, all except the members of the Progress Party, agreed that it was necessary to review the division of tasks and responsibilities between the levels of government, including between the county office and the county municipality. For the Christian People's Party, it is important with the greatest possible degree of popular rule and popular control. The proposers of Document No. 8:43 will transfer responsibility for the health service, including responsibility for hospital operations, to the state. They will also introduce unit-price financing towards secondary schools and claim that the county is a costly and bureaucratic intermediary without the necessary basis of existence. It surprises me that the Progress Party will reduce the regime in favour of greater power for the government or bought private entrepreneurs. The Centre Parties stated in the Adult Declaration of October 1997: ‘A central government believes that a living and decentralised democracy with broad participation is fundamental to meeting the major challenges of society.’ It is through public engagement and popular governance that we can best solve environmental problems, get more at work, ensure cohesion between groups, regions and countries, ensure national and local ownership of natural resources and Norwegian ownership in industry. If important policy objectives are to be achieved, markets must be corrected by governance of elected bodies. The improvement of the financial framework conditions is a prerequisite for strengthened local self-government. Greater real power for elected bodies, not least in municipalities and county councils, is a prerequisite for people to find it meaningful to engage in political work and take responsibility for social development. Int. S. No 250 for 1997-98 on the municipal economy for this year, the Progress Party says that the savings potential is DKK 10 – 15 billion in the municipal sector. In St. pp. No 69 for 1998-99 it appears that the county used DKK 1.6 billion, or 3 p.p., of its expenditure on central governing bodies and overheads in 1997. The municipalities used 7 pst. So the number of dollars used, and the savings potential that the Progress Party intends to point to, is not consistent. It's naive to believe, as I see it, that a closure of the county municipality will provide a cheaper and better offer to the population by transferring power to the government, away from popular governance and control. It is, as I experience it, unthinkable to propose that the county elections in 1999 be cancelled. The loss of job compensation to some politicians without actually having a job, or double meeting compensation, is not a matter of the county's existence, but a matter of ethics and morality. The Christian People's Party supports the majority position in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1168	In line with our well-known position, Right-wing support for the one proposal of the Progress Party, that is to say, the winding-up of the county. We refer, as others do, to previous proposals on our part to extend the mandate of the Task Distribution Committee to also shed light on this work. It didn't get the majority's support. The majority will also do something else today than the Right Party and the Advance Party. It is small on purpose in this house to shed light on savings and efficiency opportunities. We have long seen this manifest through clear refusal to launch competition. We also see it in these days, where the majority is going to direct large financial resources to a level of government that is being protected from fundamental critical evaluation, the protection tool, while the alleged care failure can mark the everyday lives of individuals. Necessary cuts in the public sector are likely to require a different attitude over time. But the majority is obviously comfortable going backwards into the future. The need for growth in the public sector is evident if we are only to predict trends without structural countermeasures. The resource access will obviously be a scarcity factor in the future as well. The majority therefore have a significant responsibility by tying up too much of the available economy in public bureaucracy and extensive management at three levels. Since there has been so much talk of mandate in this debate, it should be stressed that in its time the Christiansen Committee also had the same lack of mandate. It is time to shed light on this issue, which the majority are seeking to escape lighting. So we have expressed our support for proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox As clearly as that, we have expressed that proposal No. 2 does not receive Right-wing support.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1181	The left is pleased with a debate on administration. These are fundamental functions of society, both in terms of the conditions of the Governing Council and in terms of the services to be provided by the public. We also wish to welcome a debate on the place of the county council. The left wants critical searchlights, reforms and renewal. However, this must be done with due diligence and insight, not on the basis of lucid assertions and urgent action. It is especially in the case of two aspects that we very much disagree with the proposers behind this Document No. The 8th proposal. The most important thing is the claim that in Norway we only need two levels of government. The second is the unilateral commitment of the public service as a service provider and the corresponding denial of the democratic aspect, including the importance of regional bodies for coordination, industrial development, cultural work and identity. The closure of the county municipality will have dramatic consequences for Norwegian society, and it is completely irresponsible to go to such a step without setting an alternative regional system instead. The gap between many and relatively small primary municipalities and the state could provide a reinforced state overarching of local maritime governance and a significant centralisation of power. We will also have an enormous pressure towards community mergers and general geographic centralisation. It is possible that the Progress Party and the Right want such a development, but then they should say it in plain language and be willing to take that debate. Intermunicipal cooperation cannot replace the level of regional administration. It may complement it, but it is far too uncommitted and random to be a foundation of Norwegian administration. The left agrees with the comments made by the majority in the present position. We also think SV has pointed to important points in the matter. I refer in particular to the fact that the winding-up of the county municipality will lead to more power for government and bureaucracy, and a lost arena for policy based on the different experiences of the different regions. We need a regional level. What it will look like and what tasks it will have, the Left will be involved in an open-minded discussion. We are open to reforms. The processing of the Task Distribution Committee settings will be a natural background for such a thorough discussion. The left is to move power from state, regional offices, including the county, to elected bodies. We are engaged in reforms that can give the county greater real freedom of action and greater legitimacy to the population. We want reforms that can improve and streamline service provision and services. Neither the concept nor the number of the county is sacred to the Left. Public tasks need to be solved without unnecessary resource use. In this context, we are critical of the culture that has evolved in the form of an ever-increasing number of full-time policy-makers with good pay and favourable arrangements. Parts of what has recently been described in the press are unfortunate and need to be changed. We are afraid that the introduction of parliamentaryism in the county municipality will further strengthen the 'discipline' of policy and contribute to expenditure growth at political level. The left wants more delegation to the lower level of government, we want less designation and greater freedom. We have confidence in the local populace. It takes time to change the override we now have, but the government should be grateful that it initiates attempts with less denomination and a general simplification of administration. The social democratic equality requirement is a threat to sensible, adapted and efficient local administration. And the desire of the right is equally dangerous for a balanced development of the values created throughout the country over centuries. The proposal of the Progress Party to cancel the County elections is pointless and unprofessional. No extension of a term of office granted by voters for four years is foreseen for an indefinite period. The left agrees with the majority proposal to reject the proposals put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1210	The county is under constant attack, and the summary of the SV is as follows: the county must be given political power and economic backbone. If we don't, the county will disappear. This is a challenge that goes especially to the Workers' Party and the Centre parties, because the county council has been given tasks, but the county has never followed up with responsibility, power and money, so that the county councils have been able to fulfil the regional policy role they have been assigned. They've been stuck in some sort of black persuasion, and they're therefore very exposed to stabbing and criticism, and have never received the recognition that they should have. The proposal itself is about the traditional fight against policy. The fact that the proposers end up with more bureaucracy, as they also claim to be opposed, is perhaps comical and a bit tragic, but this is not just a governing body, but an arena for policy development. And for SV, strengthening policy is important. The county councils have been assigned a regional policy role. So what does that mean? That means they're put in some sort of middle position in Norwegian politics. They are large enough to have a good overview of geographical areas that include both large and small, urban and urban, outskirts and centres. But at the same time, they are small enough to see details of how both municipal, county and state policies work as a whole. In the middle of this crossing, I and SV believe that new policies can be developed that work, that innovate the differences that exist in the country, and that are able to find the different solutions that are needed, that are not visible from any national level or from local authorities. The county plan was to include, inter alia: be a tool for the development of such a policy and should be given weight at kgl. Resolution. Kgl. The resolution is taken, but there has not been much to look at everything that has been done, and all the policy developments that are taking place in the county municipalities, in this house, for example. I feel that there is a lack of understanding of the system that you have established, and a lack of follow-up with more decentralisation. It is primarily a responsibility that the political parties must take on board. They haven't done that now. I feel that there is a marked distrust of municipal politicians, but especially of county politicians, from a broad political team in this Chamber. I believe that if we don't take a settlement with it and sail trust our party colleagues more and give them the influence and power they must have in order to perform the role we have assigned them to, the county opponents will win this battle. I really don't want them to do that, because I think this is not exactly what the Right says, that maintaining the state level means going back into the future. On the contrary, if you look south in Europe, as the Right likes to do, you see that it is precisely the regional level that is being strengthened. It is at the regional level that development takes place. It is at the regional level that interaction takes place in the private sector and in politics. It is at the regional level that development policy has found a new life. I think it would have been useful to look at what is happening in other countries in this area, rather than leading what I perceive is an old-fashioned battle for bureaucracy and against a popular level. So you can ask yourself, are we such a small country that we don't need three levels? No, I don't think so, I don't think there's too much politics. I believe that if the county council is closed, we will have a race of municipal mergers, so that these municipalities become so large that they lose the advantage they now have in terms of proximity. The best thing about the municipalities is that they're so small that they can give their people a certain proximity, which makes people feel a connection that's important when it comes to building communities and communities. They may become so large that they lose it, but not large enough to be able to have the overview in such a large area as they need if they are to be able to enter and take over tasks that the county councils now have. So I see it so that the county councils are also a coup d'état against a large-scale municipality merger. I do not think large municipalities are good, at least not as a principle. When discussing the three levels, there is very little discussion about the state's regional apparatus, whether about the state offices, which are more or less suspended, or about the county office. Sometimes I get the feeling that the countyman is a size that can be described as something like this: In the beginning, the countyman was. He is from eternity to eternity, and thus it is impossible to discuss the justification and existence of him. I would like to have a debate on the state's justification. I imagine that the position of the county council should be reduced to a supervisory board, and that the political and administrative tasks should be transferred to the municipality and, in particular, to the county level. KS has had a sample at work, called the Sundsbø Committee, and it has outlined and aggregated tasks together. Most of the conclusions share SV, except for the last one, which we believe is completely wrong, namely that this should be grouped together under an administrative management where it is the county that is the leader. This is an administrative delusion, because it sets a government official to lead a popularly elected level. One of the principles of the elected system must be that it is the elected system of seas that employs the administrative leader if you do not choose parliamentaryism as a model. So to what the Socialist Left Party believes that the county council should be given the right to rule. I have outlined it in my comment in the setting, and I will not go further into what it says there, except to take an example because the representative Lodve Solholm was concerned that the road sector was very important, and that in his opinion the county council's management of the county roads was good enough reason to shut down the county council, because there were bad things. If you think the opposite, if you think that the county councils could have access to the means of transport, both to national roads and to county roads, and also to see appropriations for public transport as a whole, you could get a transport policy regime within a geographical area that was the way the population actually wanted it. I think we've got a lot of sensible priorities based on that. Personally, I have to say that I have difficulty imagining that e.g. The FATIMA link in North Norway had been built if the Finnish county had been allocated to FATIMA along with other national and county road appropriations, and appropriations for public transport. I feel quite convinced that they had ended up with a different result, and that it would not have been at all unfavourable to the county road network otherwise in Finnmark. So it's been said that one reason to put down the county council is that people know little about it, and that if you ask people, they think that the county council is nothing special to have. If you look at surveys where people are asked what experience they actually have with the services they get in the county municipality, you get a completely different answer. It may be a problem to know that it's a county service they've been using, but that's not what matters. I see it this way, to say it a little bit clumsy, that if you had done a similar simple investigation of what people think about what's going on in this house, it's doubtful that the Storting would be maintained all the time. I'm a little afraid of such simple conclusions. I think the fight for the future of the county is going to be pretty hard in the future. I sincerely hope that we will win that fight, because I am absolutely sure that the county council is a level that is able to accomplish far greater tasks than those it has today, and that they would be good in such a role if they were given sufficient power and responsibility. I think they would be so good that they would breathe the Storting in their necks much more than they do today. That would also benefit the Storting. But if we are to succeed, if we are to succeed in strengthening policy throughout the system, the political parties must follow this up. Then there must be a real decentralization of power and responsibility. The county must have its political power and its economic backbone. Then it will live well, even in the next millennium.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1239	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1242	It was said from the last speaker that one must give the county authority political power. I'm not so sure now. I don't even think it would have helped with Viagra, because the county council is in trouble. And the reason why the county council stands in the way is that we've got a payroll of state politicians in Norway, who are more concerned with the remuneration and benefits they can get in the county than they are with taking care of the primary tasks that the county council has today. If we go into the hospital sector, what are we looking at in the state after the state? Well, local hospitals in the individual counties are being reduced to a small subdivision because they have politicians who do not give priority to the important tasks. The same is true in the school sector and high school, which is that the county community is not even able to follow up what they are really going to do in this area. That the closure of the county municipality will have dramatic consequences for the politicians, there can be no doubt. But we in the Progress Party must take into account the Kingdom of Norway, the nation, the taxpayers and the people we serve through the different levels of government we have. We're less than a big city in Europe with our 4.2 million. citizens, yet we should have so many administrative links. And what do we see about the important problems? Well, it's not going to be able to manage that county council. Then we have to ask ourselves the questions: do we need it? Are we served with it? On the basis of this, we in the Progress Party have come to the conclusion that the county municipality is a gulf in the management system that we need to get rid of. We also see that the majority, at least very many, of those sitting in this room today, have a background in the county. In the book ‘The Biggest in Names and Numbers 1997-2001’ we can see where each of the biggest representatives has been before, and a lot of people have a background in the county. That might be what you think. I don't doubt that the majority in this Chamber and throughout the Grand Duchy are concerned that we should have a local democracy that works, but then you see that the consequences are that you get a lot of angry county representatives trying to stand up for elections. Also in my own party I have received an enquiry from a state politician who was nominees and was angry that we had promoted the proposal to cancel the county election. But we cannot take into account our own, as Lodve Solholm was. Although we have paid state politicians, there is now reason to start the work of shutting down the county council, because no one has served the county council, other than the payroll that sits there.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1255	Back in 1976 there was a major reform of the county council, and the county council emerged as we know it today, with direct elections to the county council with its own tax law and bureaucracy. This increasing degree of autonomy was then justified by the need to achieve greater efficiency. The question is, was it like this? The visions were great in 1976, but the brutal bluish day has for the most part taken over the county, and more and more teams are now criticizing this third level of government. The level of criticism has in part become very significant, and more and more are now proposing to close the county. It is also claimed that the county has become a democratic institution that conducts debates that nobody cares about. There is also strong doubt as to how useful the county municipality is in the day-to-day operation of our welfare society and also of our democratic system, for the tasks performed by the county council, is perceived by many as a state responsibility. It is also true that it is the service-provider aspect and not at all the democratic political aspect that is perceived as important, and in this way it is largely the responsibility of hospitals that keep the county community alive today. Other areas such as education, culture and culture are more marginal as the basis for the existence of the county. Time has run from the county council, and it does not have the power to hang out, as thought in 1976. As both the political arena and as a democratic body, the county municipality has gradually become uninteresting to all except those who work there or who are in the county councils. We know that hospital operations were the corner stone activity in the county, and the day we get self-guided hospitals where patient payments from the state unabatedly follow the patient directly into the respective hospitals, the county council falls. In other countries with a significantly larger element of private hospitals, political and bureaucratic governance is largely overrepresented by market governance. Here, too, the word health cow is a foreign word. This argues that hospitals with a different owner and another operating structure will make County Political Governance and Administration totally redundant. So we can do well without state politicians. There'll be no void after them. The county council has not taken over its most important tasks as responsible for hospitals, and it is therefore in crisis. But will the closure of the county community mean less democracy, less well-being and less efficiency? I belong to those who absolutely don't think it will be any problem. The county will fall. It's just a time question when.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1270	Just a few comments at the very end. The representative Solholm boasted so badly that he was so pleased with the VG once in May. Then I would like to ask the representative if he was equally satisfied with the VG as they spent their entire manager in March listening to the proposal that we are now considering. I would also like to say that if someone decides in advance here in this room, there must be the representative of Solholm in his post. You always argue with the check you're going to get by to shop around, to buy a nursing home, a school place or an operation. However, we do not have price financing in the school sector here in Norway. We have leveraged funding there 50 pst. goes over frame and 50 pst. on the ISF. The appropriations go, not to the individual hospital, but to the county. So there are many things that are taken in advance when you argue to put down the county municipality. I would also be careful to state that a reason for maintaining the county council is that my party traps are so concerned with the facts of the compensation. The last headlines in the media refer to entirely other parties who are concerned with the fact that they are remunerated in the county. So to Kleppe, who says that the county council is in trouble, you're more concerned with the compensation you get than doing a job. I take a strong distance from that. The representative Torbjørn Andersen says that the county council conducts debates that nobody cares about. I must wonder why the representatives of the Progress Party are actually asking to attend the assembly – is it just for pay? Let's get a thorough review and get things on the table, which we've now asked for. We will also have a basis for taking the necessary decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1283	This is going to be a very comprehensive debate, but there are a few things I have to comment on. One is that you have focused on what you call the payroll, and in connection with it, full-time politicians. I would like to say that it is rather regrettable to see some of the examples that have been drawn in terms of how this is happening, but I would warn against mixing this with that, for example. can see itself served by having a system of parliamentaryism, or that all-day politicians themselves are something negative that one should try to combat. The reason for that is that society has become quite complicated gradually. The bureaucracy and the law are very complicated. The community is also complicated. It has not been done in a hand-turn in an evening to get involved in all this and to deal with a bureaucracy and legislation when you're going to be a politician, participate in making decisions and facilitate social development. That's why I think it's too easy to say that full-time politicians or pay politicians are a threat to democracy. I think it could be a danger to democracy if we were to have a team of politicians to run this on a pure amateur basis in an evening hour and to deal with a very professional and full-time bureaucracy. Here I want to strengthen policy over bureaucracy, including in this sector. So the criticism is also that everything is going to get so much better in the state if we move the problems there, because there's such a good overview of everything you're doing. I would say that I do not know anything that is as state-driven as the county councils today, both in terms of tasks, and in terms of money and funding. It is actually the state that lays all the framework for the county today, and places the constraints that make them unable to fulfil their tasks. So it's going to be shooting at the pianist when you're not willing to innovate that it's actually the frames and the imposed ones that we give, that prevent the county council from performing its role in a way that the population would feel even better served by. And then to the claim that the county municipality will disappear if the hospitals become state-owned. I am among those who want hospitals to remain municipal, but I see no connection whatsoever in the fact that the county council would lose its right to exist if such a move were to take place. For there are quite other tasks that are much more important in the regional policy role of the county, and these are education policy, competence development, industrial development and culture. That is what will make development happen, and it is the sectors that are the most important in the county.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1294	Signe Eye challenge me on some things, among other things. This is because there's not a single price for some things that we want. No, but we're going to have it -- we're going to get it done. We've managed to get a little bit on the way, and there's no reason why we're going to put down a work that makes sense, simply to get rid of the county council, because no one's now introduced certain things. It'll come soon. And Signe's eyes were out, and commented on this with the salutation, that it was a different party from the labourer's party. Yes, but there's no reason to start assigning blame here. If you're going to start first, it was the Worker's Party in Akershus that peaked the most teething, according to VG's list. Then she also asked the question whether I was satisfied with VG in March. No, as I said in my post: it is not often I agree with VG, but I agreed with them on 26 May. But it may have been the hustle and bustle that VG did at the time, they had new thoughts, because it was obvious that they had worked on the matter afterwards, when they made a long series about how the county municipality worked. That's why I think it's a little important to get this too with bureaucracy, when Karin Andersen and some others are involved in strengthening the bureaucracy by getting a piece of price finance. No, one does not. Try to think positively and think differently! A priced financing simply allows individuals to choose hospitals, to choose treatment, to choose an old-age home and a hospital where they would like it. One moves power from bureaucracy and politicians down to the individual. And that must be the most important thing we can do as politicians, because as far as possible, the individual should be able to exist in this society without the public taking responsibility for us from cradle to grave. And then we're going to learn to stick to certain laws and rules that this house has to vote for, so that we act decently.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1303	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3545]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1317	St.meld. No 3 on the national accounts, including the national accounts for 1998, has received a recommendation from a Joint Committee after the management of the Financial Committee. And today's debate will not be extensive. The main reason for this is that the Stortinget will later be able to debate the control and constitutional aspects of the accounts, on the basis of the attitude of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee to the Riksrevision document. I would like to point out that in the annex to the vote, there are letters from the Minister of Finance dated 21 May 1999, which provide corrections and additional comments on two areas of government accounting. The total revenue in the national accounts for 1998 was NOK 471.3 billion, while the expenditure was NOK 443.7 billion, which told that the Norwegian economy is solid. The net revenue from the State budget from the petroleum industry was DKK 45 billion. And the large deviations from the agreed budget are due, among other things. the large changes in oil price, as illustrated by net oil revenue falling by DKK 41.8 billion from 1997 to 1998. The notification also provides an overview of the revenue and expenditure of the State Petroleum Fund, which at the end of 1998 had a capital of DKK 164.6 billion, and the total surplus for 1998 was DKK 34.2 billion. Let me add here that one has reason to be satisfied with the way Norway Bank manages the State Petroleum Fund. The message is also useful for the development of the population’s population in 1998, the increase in sick pay and disability pension, medical rehabilitation and the change in the number of old-age pensioners. A few areas have received their own mentions, including: the areas of activity on which there is broad political agreement when it comes to health and the elderly. With this, I would like to recommend the vote by the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1339	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3545]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1353	The decision shall deal with the Government's proposals in St.prp. No 61 to convert Postbanken BA into a 100 pst. State-owned limited liability company. This transformation shall be carried out by 1 July 1999 at the latest. The transformation into a public limited-liability company will take place by transferring the Postbank's assets, rights and obligations as a whole to Postbanken AS in connection with the formation of the limited-liability company and as consideration for the State acquiring all the shares in the new limited-liability company. Necessary legal changes in connection with the transformation into a limited liability company are promoted in Ot.prp. No Fifty-three. The members of the Committee from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left have called for an organisational solution between the Municipal Bank and the Postbank, and I point out that Odelstinget has transformed the Municipal Bank into a limited partnership later today. After the conversion of the Postbank into a limited liability company, the organisation and operation of the Postbank will no longer need to be regulated by a separate law. The Postbank Act may therefore be repealed. It is important to stress that the scope of banking services in the postal office network is not changed as a result of the transformation of the Postbank into a limited liability company. A statutory obligation to provide basic banking services through the Post despatch network still exists, but now through the Postal Company Act. This does not imply that the Post is bound to any particular financial institution to provide these services, but that the institution with which the Post chooses to enter into an agreement undertakes to provide basic banking services throughout the country through the Post’s despatch network. Competition has thus been safeguarded. Until 1 May 2002, the Post has concluded an agreement with the Postbank. The Progress Party and the Right have proposed in the vote to sell the shares of Postbanken AS after the conversion. The majority of the Committee rejects the proposal. This must be seen in the light of the fact that the Government has proposed to merge the Postbank with the Norwegian Bank and that the Government goes in to reduce the country’s total ownership of the merged bank to one-third.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1370	The Progress Party supports the Government's proposal to transform the Postbank into a limited liability company and finds many reasons to do so. But that's where roughly also ends the consensus. The Progress Party sees no good reason for the State to sit as the owner of the converted Postbank and considers that the State should sell its shares in the bank regardless of whether or not the merger with DnB mentioned in the suspension becomes a reality. We believe it will be an advantage both for the bank and for society, whether the state entrusts its ownership to private actors. The fact that there will be competition on the postal network, we believe, is in the best interests of the customers. The provision of basic banking services across the country through the Post branch network can be ensured regardless of whether there is competition for access on that network. Such competition would be appropriate in order to ensure optimal offers to customers. I would like to address the minority proposal from the Progress Party and the Right that has been put in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1381	The representative Per Erik Monsen has drawn up the proposal he made okay for.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1384	It does not appear that the Committee on Budgets has considered this to be a major debate. Then a transport politician comes and interferes with it. What is this really about? Formally referred to as Postbanken BA as a public limited liability company. It may be a necessary step as part of an effort to find an alliance partner. We in SV see that finding an alliance partner can be beneficial for the Postbank. We have previously, together with the Workers' Party, asked the Government to come back to the revised national budget with the assessment of organisational solutions together with the Municipal Bank. That's not what the Government wanted. They made proposals for conversion to public limited-liability companies without attaching them to concrete draft terms of merger in the original proposition. But it was obvious in the cards that proposals would be made, and that this was in order to prepare the basis for a later proposal submitted with a proposed merger between the Norwegian Bank and the Postbank. And it came pretty quickly afterwards. It's a merger we don't have the sense of. The Norwegian Bank already has the largest market share in a market characterised by an increasing number of players. Merging with the Postbank will increase dominance, weaken competition and will not benefit consumers, and it is a little strange for SVs to be alone in the barricade to defend competition and consumer interests. The majority can now claim that they have not yet submitted a vote on the proposed merger between the Norwegian Bank and the Postbank, but it is not going to be credible. Because there is a correlation between the position we are dealing with now and the relevant draft terms of merger promoted as a proposition in the last week. If this was not the case, the other parties could give a little signal, a little pipe, about what they think about the draft terms of merger in the position we are dealing with today. But they're tause. It could be one of two possibilities. One is the general trend, of course, that everything should be AS-certified and privatised. It makes me think of a December evening in 1990, just after the fall of the Syse government. There aren't many people here who remember back; there might be some. Then there was a replacement error, called it, which prevented what was then called the Postsparebank from becoming AS. After all, the Syse government had a strong intention of privatization and AS-certification. It was then, in the early 1990s, and then the trade union movement mobilized. But it's been a while. There was a lot of acidity in the corridors here for days, yes, I think week by week, about who was responsible for the substitution fault that made what was called the Postsparebank, not an AS at the time. But the vote error from 1990 is well established today, so that now the Postbank becomes an AS. It took a long time. But the second option is the reality behind this AS-certification, namely the idea of a current partnership between the Norwegian Bank and the Postbank. As the Government has recommended this merger and knows about these discussions for a long time, I think it has been the main motive. This is just the first step, the next step is probably before the summer break, and we'll probably be pretty alone then as well. Otherwise, in the end, I would just like to stress what is very important to us: it is the right and the duty to be present in the Post Norge BA's despatch network. One important condition for saving the remains of the postal network we have is that we have a bank that is present throughout the postal network, and that has a right to be there, but also an obligation to be there. We'll get back to that when new banking constellations might be going into the postal network.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1405	I note with satisfaction that a joint committee, with the exception of the representative of the Socialist Left Party, supports the Government's proposal to convert the Postbank into a limited liability company in line with the submissions in the deposit proposal and the odeltingsproposition. The proposal to transform the Postbank into a limited liability company is promoted on an independent basis – and there is also a response to the representative Inge Myrvoll after his comments – regardless of whether or not there will be any proposed merger between Postbanken and DnB. As stated in the proposal, the Government cannot see that there are currently circumstances that indicate that the organisation and activities of the Postbank are regulated by separate law. The fact that the bank's framework conditions are to be as well known and predictable as possible, both in Norway and abroad, and the fact that the company forms are as uniform and transparent as possible, therefore suggests that the current special regulation of the Postbank should be repealed by the Postbank Act. In the transformation of the Postbank into a limited liability company, it is assumed that the current operations will continue unchanged, i.e.: that there will be no change in the activity as a result of changes in the form of organisation. The postal bank's purpose and payment intermediation functions will thus be continued in the new organisation. As a limited liability company, the Postbank will be subject to the same framework legislation as the other commercial banks. The conversion of the Postbank from a special-law company into a public limited-liability company is assumed by the transfer of Postbanken BA's assets, rights and obligations as a whole to Postbanken AS in connection with the formation of the limited-liability company. As before the transformation, the bank will be 100 pst. owned by the State. The members of the Committee from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left refer to their comments on the future organisation of the Municipal Bank in the Budgetary Section. S. I for 1998-99. These members asked that organisational solutions be evaluated between Kommunalbanken and Postbanken. In this context, I point out that the issue of possible coordination between the Postbank and the central banks, including the Municipal Bank, has been addressed in the past and that the outcome of this work has been presented to the Stortinget in St.prp. No 65 for 1997-98 in the context of the 1998 revised national budget. The government’s conclusion was that one did not consider it appropriate to coordinate the Postbank with the state banks. In this context, the question of possible coordination with the Kommunalbank was considered separately. I can't see that there is a relationship that suggests that the assumptions for drawing such a conclusion have changed. I would like to stress that the scope of banking services through the Posten despatch network will not be changed as a result of the transformation. It is provided that today's business agreements between Posten and Postbanken BA are continued with Postbanken AS. These agreements are valid until 1 May 2002, as the rapporteur has already mentioned. Postbanken BA currently has an obligation and exclusive right to provide its basic services, i.e.: basic banking services, throughout the postal network. Since the Post Bank Act has been repealed in connection with the transformation, it is in Ot.prp. No 53 for 1998-99 proposed a new provision in the Postal Company Act. The item is required there to enter into an agreement with a financial institution, where it is granted exclusive rights and is subject to obligations to provide basic banking services throughout the postal despatch network. The reason for this provision is that the Government still considers it important to ensure the provision of basic banking services throughout the country through the postal network. The legal provision defines the basic banking services as community-based services that the State wishes to provide. An exclusive right to use the Post despatch network will not restrict competition in the market for different banking services to individual customers. Alternative existing and potential distribution channels exist for banking services, which means that there will be no limited competition by granting a financial institution the exclusive right to provide basic banking services through the Posten despatch network. I have noticed that the members of the Committee from the Progress Party and the Right do not see any reason why the Postbank should have exclusive access to the Posten branch network and that this access should instead be put on the market. I would like to make it clear that this bill does not propose to give the Postbank a statutory exclusive right. Under that provision, the Post may enter into an agreement with a financial institution for the provision of the relevant banking services through the postal network. However, the Government’s proposals suggest that until otherwise decided, the Postbank will be the Post Bank’s contractual partner and that any changes to this will be submitted to the Stortinget. The background for this is, among other things, that the Government has taken the view that there are no changes in the Postbank’s activities in the process of transforming into a limited liability company and the postal network is currently the main distribution channel of the Postbank. I would also like to note that the applicable procurement rules of the EEA Agreement and the corresponding Norwegian regulations do not require more banks to be offered access to the despatch network in competition. It is most natural to consider such a scheme as the Posten’s sale of distribution services — this being the case given that the current business agreement places emphasis on the Postbank’s paying for the use of the Posten’s network based on commercial principles and on the basis of market prices. It may be added here that the rules on government acquisitions relate only to the purchase of services and not to sales. The conversion law proposed in Ot.prp. No 53 for 1998-99, which will be treated later, ensures inter alia: that the State can only establish and hold Postbanken AS, that the formation may take place without a prior offer of subscription, and that Postbanken BA's assets, rights and obligations may be used as State deposits in the company. Following a transformation into a limited liability company, the Postbank will be regarded as a commercial bank, and its organisation will essentially be reflected in the Share Act supplemented by the Business Bank Act. It has been considered that the State's governance and control capabilities should not be impaired by the transformation of the Postbank into a limited liability company. On this basis, some specific provisions relating to the organisation of the Bank and the distribution of powers between the organs of the company have been incorporated in the Act of Transformation. The provisions shall ensure, inter alia, that: that the State as the sole owner of the bank will have an authority in the company which is more similar to that of public limited-liability companies under the Share Exchange Act than in commercial banks under the Commercial Banks Act. This is related to the fact that the authority of the general meeting in the commercial banks is significantly different from that of the public limited-liability companies. It is therefore clear from the Transformation Act that the Postbanken AS representative authority will be limited in relation to the body’s authority in the commercial banks. This includes, inter alia: that it is the general meeting which shall elect the directors and auditors of the Bank, determine dividends and establish guidelines for the Bank's activities and instructions for the Supervisory Committee. Instead, the authority of the representative body of Postbanken AS shall correspond substantially to the authority of the corporate assembly in public limited-liability companies under the Share Act. Furthermore, a composition of the Board of Directors of Postbanken AS is proposed which corresponds to that of the Share Act and which implies a continuation of the current composition of the Board of Directors. Otherwise, I refer you to the rapporteur's statement.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1442	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3545]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1455	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1461	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to give priority to the presentation of a legislative proposal which both guarantees workers the right to be organised and the right not to be organised.’
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1482	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Torbjørn Andersen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, No. 2, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government to draw up rules for the establishment of asylum recipients which give local authorities the right to the necessary information on the establishment so that the local authorities and the police/police officer concerned can prepare themselves properly. The Local Council must also have the right to deal with the matter before any establishment of reception.» Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asked the Government to implement a system of ready-to-use municipalities as an emergency response mechanism for the establishment of emergency reception of refugees.’ First, there is a vote on the proposal by the Socialist Left and then, alternatively, between the vote and the motion by the Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1526	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Lodve Solholm on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Lodve Solholm on behalf of the Party of Advancement Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to start work on the winding-up of the county as a self-government level.’ Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The 1999 County elections are cancelled. Holdings shall be allowed to extend their period of operation until the necessary legislative changes and practical conditions permit them to resign.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1546	President! I'm sorry – it may affect my own identity – I voted wrong in the previous case. I should have voted in favour, but I voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1553	Then it's noted, but it doesn't change anything. After this clarification – by Dalheim’s identity – we go back to case no. 3rd@item: inlistbox First, there is a vote on the proposal from the Progress Party and then, alternatively, between the vote and the proposal from the Progress Party and the Right. Lodve Solholm – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1562	I would suggest that the order of voting be changed, so that we vote for proposal No first. 1, from the Progress Party and the Right. If there were no plurality, I would draw proposal No. 2, because they hang carefully in hops.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1567	Then there will be alternative voting between the setting and proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The Committee had ceased: Document No 8:43 [[1998-99]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1581	The President then understands that proposal No. 2 is drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1599	During the debate, Mr Monsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «The decision asks the Government to sell the shares of Postbanken AS after the conversion into a limited liability company. In the event of a merger between Postbanken AS and the Norwegian Bank, the sale of the State’s shares may be deferred after the merger, but shall include all the State’s shares in the merged company.’;» The Committee had ceased: The cancelation consents to: 1st@item: inlistbox Postbanken BA is transformed into a limited liability company Postbanken AS by 1 July 1999 at the latest.2. Postbanken AS is established with a share capital of 2 100 million. SEK by converting the share capital of Postbanken BA into the share capital of Postbanken AS.3. Cape. 5622 Basic capital of Postbanken BA item 80 Dividends are renamed cap. 5622 Shares in Postbanken AS item 80 Dividends.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1619	The vote will be taken first on the vote and then on the proposal from the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1628	The proposal from the Party of Advancement and the Right is addressed to voting. The roll-call boards showed 33 votes in favour of the proposal and 70 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 14.47.23]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1637	I vote yes all the time. I haven't been to this device at all – it's true myself, and it's gone well now! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1644	So the representative is going to correct this automatically. That means that the result should be 32 votes in favour of the proposal and 71 against. This proposal has not been adopted. The President is invited by the representative to try to follow up on what the automation is doing!
ParlaMint-NO_1999-06-01.ana.ud546e1655	There is no record. As there are now only a few minutes left of the scheduled time for the morning meeting, the president has been invited to announce that the meeting will be held at 1 p.m. in conversation with the President-in-Office. 18th@item: inlistbox
