ParlaMint-DK_20210209130003	The meeting is open. From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 5 February 2021, it was welcomed that the temporary transfer of the business of the Ministry of Industry to Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply Dan Jørgensen was brought to an end on 8 February 2021. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). In my opinion, the Royal Resolution of 5 February 2021 welcomes the termination of the temporary transfer by Royal Resolution of 8 January 2021 of the business of Minister for Industry to Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply Dan Jørgensen with effect from 8 February 2021. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Mette Frederiksen Today there are the following reviews: Marie Krarup (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 147 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the drafting of several legislative proposals on the communication of citizenship on the basis of groups of countries) and motion for a resolution No. B 149 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution supplementing the bill on the communication of citizenship with information on the religious affiliation of applicants). Mette Thiesen (NB) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 148 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to ensure that men are entitled to a right of temporary residence in settlements in crisis situations on an equal footing with women). Peter Skaarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 150 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on criminalising religious fatwas calling for criminality) and motion for a resolution No. B 151 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution introducing the possibility of anonymous notification by social control). Liselott Blix (DF) and Karina Adsbøl (DF): Request no. F 41 (What can the Minister say about the lack of general practitioners, not least in areas which are at risk of medical coverage, and will the government consider restoring some of the schemes that have previously been used to remedy the problem, e.g. grants to premises, higher performance fees for practices that take more patients and are closed to entry, grants to older general practitioners to hire a nurse, etc.), and Query No. F 42 (What can the Minister say about the Government's efforts to address the problem of medical deficiency in the Region of Zealand, and is the Minister open to give more thought to the work of the Region of Zealand and the Capital Region, not least in the context of medical shortages?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Member of Parliament Inger Støjberg has informed me that she has resigned from the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left per year. 5 February 2021. Inger Støjberg is then outside the groups. Item No of the agenda 14, proposal for a Parliament resolution on a uniform economic level for self-employed persons and employees in relation to compensation schemes in connection with the covid-19. B 140 is deleted from today's agenda at the request of the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209130159	The matter entered in paragraph 17 of today's agenda can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209130230	Anne Paulin (S) has applied for leave from 22 February 2021, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4, while Marie Bjerre (V) has applied for leave from 1 March 2021, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as applied for and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209130341	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Social Democratic Party of Western Jutland, Karin Gaardsted, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 22 February 2021 on the occasion of Anne Paulin's leave. I have also received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Left in the North Jutland Storkreds, Maja Torp, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 1 March 2021 on the occasion of Marie Bjerre's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, with the agreement of the House, I shall consider the recommendation as adopted. It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209130433	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. Before starting the vote, I would ask Members to check that it is the correct name that appears in the voting panel that is now to be used in the vote. And if that is the case, we can start the vote. There are six proposals for adoption for this question. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 54 by Rasmus Stoklund (S), and a vote can be taken. Then we reached 95 votes, and I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 30 (S), against 66 (V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 54 is rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 53 by Pia Kjærsgaard (DF), and a vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 10 (DF and NB), against 86 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 53 has been rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 55 by Morten Dahlin (V), Marcus Knuth (KF) and Ole Birk Olesen (LA), and voting is possible. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 32 (V, KF and LA), against 53 (S, SF, RV, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 10 (DF and NB). Proposal for adoption No V 55 is rejected. The vote shall then be taken on the proposal for adoption No. V 56 by Kristian Hegaard (RV) and Rosa Lund (EL), and voting is possible. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 16 (RV, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 80 (S, V, DF, SF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 56 has been rejected. The vote shall then be taken on the proposal for adoption No. V 57 of Karsten Hønge (SF), and a vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. voted 8 (SF), against 87 (S, V, DF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 57 has been rejected. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) V 58 of Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and voting is possible. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 2 (Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against voting 93 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 58 has been rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209130837	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are three proposals in all. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 47 Julie Skovsby (S), Stinus Lindgreen (RV), Trine Torp (SF) and Peder Hvelplund (EL), and voting is possible. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 54 (S, SF, RV, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 40 (V, DF, KF and LA), abstentions 2 (NB). Proposal for adoption No V 47 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 46 by Mr Liselott Blixt (DF) and motion for a resolution No. V 48 by Ellen Trane Nørby (V), Per Larsen (KF), Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209130941	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 61 by Kim Valentin (V), Kasper Sand Kjær (S), Morten Messerschmidt (DF), Birgitte Bergman (KF), Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA), and voting is possible. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 72 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 24 (SF, RV, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 61 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 62 by Rasmus Nordqvist (SF), Søren Søndergaard (EL), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Uffe Elbæk (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and proposals for adoption no. V 63 of Zenia Stampe (RV) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209131051	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There is a proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 45 by Morten Messerschmidt (DF), Jep Bruus (S), Jan E. Jørgensen (V), Kristian Hegaard (RV), Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF), Rosa Lund (EL), Nase Khader (KF), Pernille Vermund (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA). A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour, 96 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. This brings us to the motion for a resolution. V 45 adopted. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209131150	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are four proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 50 of Jep Bruus (S), Michael Aastrup Jensen (V) and Nase Khader (KF), and voting is possible. in favour of 62 (S, V, KF and LA), against 34 (DF, SF, RV, EL, NB, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 50 has been adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 49 by Mr Morten Messerschmidt (DF), motion for a resolution (Doc. V 51 by Kristian Hegaard (RV) and Rosa Lund (EL) and proposals for adoption no. V 52 of Anne Valentina Berthelsen (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209131300	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 60 by Annette Lind (S), Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), Søren Espersen (DF), Martin Lidegaard (RV), Nase Khader (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA), and voting is possible. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 79 (S, V, DF, RV, KF, NB and LA), against 17 (SF, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 60 has been adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 59 by Christian Juhl (EL), Rasmus Nordqvist (SF), Torsten Gejl (ALT) and Sikandar Siddique (UFG) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209131422	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 65 by Rasmus Horn Langhoff (S), Martin Geertsen (V), Liselott Blixt (DF), Stinus Lindgreen (RV) and Per Larsen (KF). A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 79 (S, V, DF, RV, KF, NB and LA), against 17 (SF, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 64 of Peder Hvelplund (EL) and Rasmus Nordqvist (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209131526	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 67 by Rasmus Horn Langhoff (S), Stinus Lindgreen (RV) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF), and voting is possible. The vote shall be closed. For the vote 47 (S, SF, RV, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 49 (V, DF, EL, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 66 by Martin Geertsen (V), Liselott Blixt (DF), Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF), Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB) and Lars Løkke Rasmussen (UFG), and voting is possible. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 43 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA and 1 RV (by mistake) ), against 53 (S, SF, RV, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. Draft adoption No V 68 by Peder Hvelplund (EL). A vote can be taken. A minimum of 95 votes should be cast. That concludes the vote. In favour of 16 (RV, EL, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)), against 80 (S, V, DF, SF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209131731	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209131750	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on and a vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour, 93 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 2 (NB), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209131819	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209131843	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. The proposal was adopted. For voting 52 (S, SF, RV and EL), against voting 44 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), abstention 0 The bill has been adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209131904	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209131919	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209131936	Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209131941	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. The proposal was adopted. In favour of 93 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG), against 0, abstained from voting 2 (NB) (by mistake). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209132024	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209132050	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill proceed directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209132130	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209132151	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2 elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill proceed directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209132207	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209132230	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 3 of a minority (SF, Radical Left and Enhedslisten), joined by a minority (IA, Jens Rohde (UFG), Sikandar Siddique (UFG), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), which was rejected. It has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 4 of a minority (Danish People's Party), elected by a minority (New Citizens), rejected. It has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2 and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. I therefore propose that the bill proceed directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209132330	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill proceed directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209132402	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill proceed directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209132431	I shall now suspend the sitting until 8 a.m. 13.40.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209134002	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. It's Mrs. Birgitte Vind. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209134032	Thank you for the floor. Today we are discussing a draft law amending the law on the procurement of municipalities and regions in connection with the management of covid-19; a law which will automatically be repealed on 1 March if we do not amend it. With this bill, the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing will thus be able to extend the rules that we adopted in this Chamber on 31 March 2020 to give municipalities and regions the same powers and obligations in relation to the management of covid-19 as state institutions and other institutions subject to state budget and accounting rules. It is essential that, in the current serious situation, both the state, the municipalities and the regions continue to have the opportunity to show payment flexibility in the procurement of goods and services for the business community, so that the public as a purchaser also helps to keep hands on Danish jobs and business. The adoption of this amendment would mean that, even after 28 February 2021, a municipality or region may enter into an agreement with an economic operator to pre-payment for the service ordered by the municipality or region, even if this is justified by the economic difficulties of the business and without waiting for the service to be provided, bearing in mind that the difficulties are due to Covid-19. Of course, social democracy can only support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209134202	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209134219	Thank you for that, President. In March of last year we realized that we were entering a very serious time, a time of corona, but I do not think there were any of us in here who have the imagination to imagine that there would be a time of such great uncertainty and with such serious consequences, among other things. for Danish business. Today we are debating a bill proposing to extend the sunset clause for L 325 of 31 March 2020 on the procurement of municipalities and regions in connection with the handling of covid-19. The Act is proposed to be extended from 1 March 2021 until 1 January 2022, if that means that the scheme is still needed at that time. Back in March, all the parties of the Danish Parliament concluded a series of agreements to help the Danish business community as gently as possible through the crisis, a crisis the extent of which we were not yet aware of at the time. As part of those agreements, we agreed that there should also be the possibility of granting derogations for a number of rules relating to the procurement of municipalities and regions. In concrete terms, this meant that we made it possible for municipalities and regions to pre-pay private suppliers for deliveries of up to 1 million. kr. and thus create liquidity here and now in the companies in the same way as it also became possible for the state institutions. At the same time, we also gave municipalities and regions an opportunity, for example, to refrain from levying fines from private suppliers for late delivery or other defaults, if the corona situation were the reason for this. That is why it is quite natural that when the law expires at the end of this month, and unfortunately we continue to have covid-19 among us, this bill will be extended. That is why, of course, the Left supports the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209134436	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments either. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209134500	Thank you. The legislative proposal we are discussing here is, as has been mentioned, about extending an agreement that we have from last spring and then reached a broad consensus, which is about giving municipalities and regions the opportunity to support the companies that deliver to the municipalities and regions, for example. allow the possibility to pre-pay or pay more quickly for work done. In the Danish People's Party we think that we should of course continue it; it is a very important signal to send both to the municipalities, but also to the companies, that it is indeed an opportunity. I am not aware of how much it has been spent at all. I could be a little curious if the Minister might be able to say a little bit about it. The knowledge I have of a few municipalities on Funen is really about the fact that the advance payment has not been used, but that it has been used to pay the money more quickly to the companies after work has been done. However, as I said, it is really important to send out the signal that this is an opportunity, because it can precisely support the locals in corporate finances and liquidity in this time when everything can be a little difficult. So the Danish People's Party supports the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209134610	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the SF, and that is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. In a moment, the platform will be ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209134636	Thank you for the floor. Corona is still here, a year after it reported its arrival in Denmark; it is still away a large part of our everyday life. It still has major consequences for business, and we are therefore both in the interests of security of supply in the field of corona and in order to keep our hands on the small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, to ensure their liquidity, so that as many people as possible can get out well on the other side, which I hope will be in the near future. Therefore, it still makes sense that our regions and municipalities should be given the opportunity to speed up payments to suppliers and have the opportunity to refrain from sanctioning suppliers where corona has been responsible for incomplete compliance with contracts. That is why the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209134725	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments here either. I do not see the Radical Left rapporteur in the Chamber, so I would like instead to welcome the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209134756	Thank you very much. I will not repeat the review of the legislative proposal, which everyone has so excellently presented. I just want to say that in the Enhedslisten we have full confidence that the municipalities can manage the extra opportunity that they have been given without abusing it. Nor have I heard a single example of it being abused during the period it has worked. So Enhedslisten supports the extension.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209134827	Thank you to Mrs Jette Gottlieb. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209134844	It is, of course, very good to extend this derogation to the general rules on authorisations if necessary. It is also fine to make legislation, but the question is, of course, whether it was applied. It was an agreement that was made in March last year, and together with the National Association of Municipalities, it was seen that the municipalities can also be a tool for lifting the economy during this massive decommissioning. The municipalities have also been given money. There has been a Corona aid package for the municipalities of 2.6 billion. kr. and 400 million kr. Out for cleaning. Of course, I also have confidence, and we do, in the municipalities, but the question is how these funds have been implemented. After all, it has been left to the municipalities themselves, so there are probably 98 different ways in which these funds have been implemented, and I would like to hear from the Minister whether we know how these funds have been used. Because if you don't make use of this option to prepay up to approx. 1 million kr. to the private suppliers, that doesn't make much sense. There are very, very many smaller companies that are actually in a position to get orders from the municipalities, but now instead they are going to have to turn around, and where they might otherwise be contributors, net contributors, to the municipal treasury, they may now end up being the opposite. They're gonna be a receiver from the county treasury. So there's something that suggests it. 7% at least last year, Dansk Erhvervs member companies said that they had received an order. So 93 percent. At any rate, it had not been given to those who were in a position to receive funds from the municipalities. So, yes, we must of course extend this with a proper sunset clause, but we would also like to hear more about how that law is actually being applied to what it is intended to do, namely that we can get some growth, employment to the private suppliers to the municipalities, but also that the funds come around to all places and all parts of the country where they are needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209135051	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Could I ask the rapporteur just to prepare the platform for the next one with a cleansing swab? Thank you very much. Then I will also look into the Chamber for a rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. It will then be the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, as I see it. It's sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209135120	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance can support the bill. I have been told by the New Citizens' rapporteur that so can New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209135130	Thank you for that, sir. Mr Ole Birk Olesen, who has also noted that New Citizens have made their views known at first reading. These were the rapporteurs from the parties, and then the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing has been prepared to come to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209135145	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteurs for their positive reception. We are in an extraordinary situation, and this is especially true of our companies that are suffering from a lack of demand and a lack of liquidity. We believe it is essential for our welfare society that our companies can continue to exist despite the health crisis, and it is necessary to secure Danish jobs and Danish employees out on the other side of the crisis. The Government, together with the parties of the Danish Parliament, has therefore taken a number of initiatives to mitigate some of the economic consequences for companies, among others. The Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93 (2) of the EC Treaty in respect of a number of economic aid schemes. In the spring, we decided that state, municipalities and regions such as public purchasers should be given the opportunity to give companies a hand in showing greater flexibility. In March last year, therefore, public purchasers were given the opportunity to pre-pay and to refrain from using non-compliance powers. It happened to the state by an act. Following this, a unanimous Parliament passed a law on the procurement of municipalities and regions in connection with the management of covid-19, which provided the same opportunities as state institutions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Therefore, on 28 January 2021, the Finance Committee has joined an act extending the regime in the state field, and the draft law that we are considering today will ensure a corresponding extension in the municipal and regional areas. The extension of the scheme will give some companies a much needed economic space. The specific framework of the scheme is now laid down in a notice, and I will see to it that it is extended on the basis of this legislative proposal. The rules will initially apply until 30 June of this year, with the possibility of an extension until 1 January 2022, when the law is repealed. The question was raised both by the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party as to whether the law has been applied. We do not have a comprehensive inventory of this, so I cannot tell you about it, but to the more critical remark that comes from the Conservatives, I would say that it is the individual municipality that decides how to manage it, and there will be many municipalities, I think, who will use this scheme, but there will of course also be some places where, for economic reasons or other reasons, you may choose not to do so, and I consider that to be part of local self-government, although from here I would like to encourage people to take advantage of this system.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209135417	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment to be made to the Minister and it is from Mrs Kathrine Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209135425	Yeah, there has to be a question for the minister. And thank you for your attention. Now I heard that the Minister says, on the one hand, that it is up to the municipalities to implement it themselves; that is our municipal self-government; but on the other hand, the Minister also says that he expects it to be used as an economic lever and also for order books for the smaller companies. But how can this be done if the municipalities have complete autonomy? What, then, is it that the Minister would like to do and encourage? Are there any concrete proposals as to what the Minister would call on the municipalities to do in order to get the local economy going around? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209135504	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209135505	No, in general terms, I do not make a number of suggestions on how to get the economy going. I am quite sure that is a discussion that is going on elsewhere, among other things. in the Ministry of Industry. However, I would urge municipalities and regions to use the system that we are dealing with here and that is in operation. For there are municipalities, how many local companies are under pressure and may be having difficulty in relation to the liquidity in particular. And I think I can do that without demanding it. I also call on all municipalities, including bourgeois municipalities, to build general housing, for example, but that does not mean that I force them to build general housing. It's just because I think it's a good idea. And I also think it is a good idea to take advantage of this scheme, whether you are one or the other type of municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209135549	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209135554	Thank you for your answer. But is it the case that you can also use it in terms of building general housing, or how can this be understood in relation to this helping the covid-19 handling?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209135609	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209135610	No, it wasn't meant to be understood that way. It was a comparison with another situation where, as a government, you think something is a good idea, without necessarily forcing the individual municipality to do so, but only giving them the opportunity to do so. And so it is with this bill. We give the municipalities the opportunity to provide financial support and improve the liquidity of some of the companies that deliver to the municipalities. But it is the individual municipality that makes the decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209135637	Thank you to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209135654	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209135720	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by saying that I naturally agree with the proposers that vandalism against statues and monuments must be prosecuted and punished. Not least when it comes to vandalism against our common cultural heritage. That there are people, both here and abroad, who believe that they have the right to desecrate, tear down or throw out works of art because they disagree with the views expressed by the works is, to say the least, incomprehensible. We have the right to disagree, for example. in the almighty and one - eyed world view of colonial times, but it can never justify destroying works of art and statues to protest against the sins of the past. As the Minister for Culture has also said, we must face history and learn from it, not hide it or erase it. I therefore agree with the authors that the developments we have seen abroad, where monuments have either been vandalised or destroyed, are worrying. With the motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party proposes that the penalty for vandalising cultural heritage memories, statues, monuments and the like should be doubled. The Danish People's Party also wants the punishment for vandalism against monuments to be prison. The government can't support that. Not because we disagree with the Danish People's Party here, but because it is already the case today that the prosecution claims prison sentences for persons who are committing vandalism for amounts exceeding DKK 15,000. And we must assume that this is the case when it comes to cultural heritage memories. In this way it can be said that it is an open door that the Danish People's Party wants to open. In relation to the proposal to double the penalty, it is not something the government can support either. The penalty framework for vandalism is today 1 year and 6 months in prison. In the case of a significant scale or of a more systematic, organised nature, or if the perpetrator has been convicted in the past for vandalism or a number of other crimes, the penalty may go to prison for up to six years. In determining the penalty, it shall be taken as an aggravating circumstance that the vandalism has been committed immediately following a serious disturbance of order in a public place. So it is already the case today that vandalism, which has caused damage of more than DKK 15 000, is placed under the tighter penalties of six years. A doubling of the penalties will therefore mean that we will have a penalty framework which will be up to 12 years in prison. This will mean that the penalty for vandalism will be higher than for the vast majority of perilous crimes that we, as a society, normally regard as more serious. The penalty framework will, for example, be: equal to that applicable to rape in particularly aggravating circumstances. I do not think that is appropriate. On the basis of these arguments, the government will not support the resolution. In those words, thank you for the motions for resolutions and, of course, I am making myself available for any questions that may arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209140045	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209140049	Thank you and thank you for the Minister for Justice's speech, not for the support, as I understand it, for our resolution. When I want to ask questions here, it is because over the last few months we have seen several examples around the world that something we consider to be our story and you can have your opinions about the things that exist in the form of statues, or whatever it is, is being subjected to vandalism. It is not just in Denmark, it is also in a number of other countries where things have gone even worse. I would like to ask the Minister for Justice if it is not very sensible to send out a clear signal from the government and the Folketing to those who might destroy old things that we have standing and which are part of our history.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209140145	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209140146	Yes, I think that is exactly what I said with my reference to the Minister for Culture, who has said that we must face history and learn more from it, not conceal it or try to delete it. And then I actually think that the penalties we have in this area, i.e. vandalism in this relationship too, are pretty tough.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209140211	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209140213	But the Minister for Justice does not think that some people, for example. Thinking of throwing a statue in the harbor, is it completely grotesque, that is, that some make it up? Does the Minister for Justice not think that it is so important that we, on the part of the Danish Parliament, clearly indicate that we do not want to do so, and we will not accept it, also by means of our criminal sanctions? Because, as we also write in our motion for a resolution, the fact is that there are cases where it would typically be fine if we were to do various kinds of vandalism, and this also applies to our cultural heritage. There it is that we in the Danish People's Party say that, especially in relation to our cultural heritage, old statues, whatever it is, we must take care of history.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209140259	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209140301	I am not going to deal with the specific case, and without doing so I would just like to say that if you assume that there is the hypothetical situation in which vandalism is being carried out against a statue and that the amount of damage is assumed to be more than DKK 15 000, which is not unrealistic, then it will already be linked to the tighter penalties of six years, and the prosecution will claim prison sentences.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209140330	The next brief remark is to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209140334	Thank you. That is just as much as the last thing the Minister says, because it is quite true that we have in paragraph 1. 2 is over in more than 15,000 kroner. and a tighter penalty from fine and up to 6 years in prison. And then it is that the Minister of the Danish People's Party's proposal to sentence the prison sentence for this every time answers that the prosecution also claims prison. Now, at least in my optics, it does not matter how high the penalty is. After all, we never get there, and it doesn't matter what the prosecution claims. What, on the other hand, does not matter is what is being judged. And that is what I am asking the Minister: does the Minister or will the Minister present an overview of the last 10 to 20 years of case law in this area? It is very easy, because there are virtually no decisions on statues and state property etc. At any rate, I would be very interested to know that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209140433	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209140436	I would, of course, very much like to explain the case-law there has been. And it is also true, as the questioner says, that fortunately it is not extensive. Typically, someone cut down trees on the neighbor's property or painted graffiti on a S-train or something like that. Fortunately, these are very few cases relating to the vandalisation of cultural heritage memories, but I would very much like to send a perhaps not complete but yet a representative list of case law in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209140512	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209140515	Well, that's quite correct. I just allowed myself to let my eyes run down through Karnov at that point there wasn't much to pick up there. On the other hand, there was a judgment about someone who had taken his mother-in-law's glasses and put them in the driveway in vandal terms. What is important, and I assume the Minister agrees with that, is what is being judged in these cases... not criminals or, for that matter, the prosecution's claim.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209140545	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209140547	I agree with that. But when there is very little case-law, I think it is also relevant to say: what will the prosecution's claim typically be? So, what is the expectation of the level to which the prosecution will believe that a relationship will give rise to a conviction?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209140604	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209140606	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. I have two questions. Firstly, I would like to know whether the Minister has, by chance, examined this debate whether there has been an increase in the number of vandalisms on the type of memory we are talking about here. So, is it a trend that is increasing, or is it something like that that happens every once in a while, then the little mermaid gets her head cut off, etc. Could we get some evidence about developments in this area if the Minister has it? The second question I have is whether the Minister will go in to look at this problem a little wider, because I think it is a very narrow approach. After all, we are very concerned about preserving the cultural memories and our history, which is an absolutely crucial thing, and we cannot fail to look at all the burial mounds that are ploughed up to and where there are industries that build, or building mastodons that do not take into account the existence of cultural heritage memories in the earth. In other words, is there a subject that we could perhaps look at a little more at in relation to penal sanctions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209140717	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209140718	Let me start by saying that I have not checked evidence of what might be of case law. What I am referring to is the impression I have received from reading up to the point, namely that, as has been said before, there is no myriad of cases. But I haven't gone through it systematically or tried to figure out what might be of evidence, just as I haven't plunged myself into this about how close cultural heritage memories are plowed. I really believe that it is because I feel that the regulation we currently have of both is fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209140754	There are no more brief remarks to the Minister, and while the Minister is kind enough to prepare for the rapporteurs, I can say in the meantime that the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Jeppe Bruus. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209140819	Thank you for that, President. This whole debate on identity policy is relevant, and it is going on in many places, including at home. I must confess that sometimes I am mostly an observer to that debate. I have a little bit of difficulty in fully identifying the meaning of all the arguments and claims that go through the air. I think we should have enormous respect for the heritage, culture and history of which we are a part. As the father of three young children, I often sing the elephant's lullaby, and to you, where it may be a while ago that you have had children and have sat and sung it, I can tell you that there is a chorus in that song where you have changed it to be a coconut instead of something else. I thought that was quite natural, that is to say, that you no longer sing what was originally in the Elefant's lullaby. That's the way it is when you read stories to your kids. There are a number of these children's books that have in time been changed a little, because what was written at the time would today be strange to take in the mouth as a father of small children. Is that a huge problem? Is that a slip? Is that an attack on the story? No, by no means. It's actually just very natural. I also think that there is a lot in this debate that is very natural. On the other hand, I have also been a little strained when everything has to be wiped out, and when someone beats the drum for it. We must be able to have that debate with each other, like everything else we can, in this good country in a good, healthy and democratic way, where the arguments must be put forward and can also be argued. And then you just have to settle down and figure out how to move forward. One of the arguments you cannot accept in such a debate is to vandalize or engage in vandalism or throw things into the harbor or whatever you can come up with. That is why this motion for a resolution is very relevant. The Minister has already explained this, and I was a little surprised, in fact, that the penalties in these cases are actually quite nice. If you're practicing vandalism against something worth more than 15,000 kroner, you're going to prison as a starting point. Now the comments on the motion for a resolution state that there are no examples of people being sentenced to prison for vandalism on cultural heritage memories. In any case, I think I am familiar with a single case in which, back in 2009, seven days in prison were sentenced to a person who had committed vandalism against something worth more than DKK 24,000. But now I understand that we are also getting an overview of the cases that have been and then it can enrich all of us. That is why I do not think that we are still there, where it is about this debate being attacked, by throwing more severe penalties after it, but the debate is relevant, and if we look around the world, I actually share the view of the Danish People's Party that there is a worrying development going on, where it is used to desecrate cultural heritage memories as a legitimate way of entering into this debate with each other. Against this background, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209141141	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209141145	I am glad that the rapporteur of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is present. Jeppe Bruus, seems to take it seriously, in that it is a trend that we must resist and which we must combat, including here in Denmark. But I think one could take it so seriously that one would also be involved in discussing a legislative proposal on this point that tightens the screw against those who might come up with such a thing. Because I believe that if we are to send out some signals that we do not want such things, such tendencies, then it is important that from in here in the Folketing to those who might think of it, we make it clear that we will not put up with it. Now the Minister for Justice mentioned that there are already some options to punish today. Yes, there are, but there could well be cases where the vandalism you do does not cost more than DKK 15 000. And that's where I'm just gonna ask you, sir. Jeppe Bruus does not agree that it could actually seem that such a slave vandalism is being done where it is so visible to people that something has gone wrong, but where it does not cost more than DKK 15,000, and then it is just a fine, so it is almost nothing that you get as punishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209141256	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209141257	You can imagine all sorts of things. In other words, I believe that the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned that there have been incredibly few cases on this issue. And I also think it is wise that we should be able to look at it over time. It is not, of course, because we have a wealth of these matters, and the penalty framework is actually quite tough. You're gonna throw a 20-year-old in jail for vandalism for $10,000.? Perhaps I am a little hesitant about that. I mean, if you keep doing that, I'm gonna assume that the penalty goes up. But it is not because we have a wealth of cases in Denmark. It is, of course, good to be at the forefront of development. I mentioned before the one case in which a prison sentence was actually given for vandalism for a value of just over 24,000 kroner, so that is a fairly severe consequence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209141352	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209141354	I do not really understand why the Socialists are not just saying: well, let us send out some signals that are unmistakable. For what we are after here is not to equate it with ordinary vandalism, where some pranks give rise to some graffiti being painted somewhere randomly. No, this is precisely what we have seen in other countries, where cultural heritage and history are deliberately pursued and where, as part of a demonstration or demonstration, we want to destroy something quite specific and do so quite consciously and quite openly. There it is. I'm just gonna ask sir. Jeppe Bruus: Do the Socialists not agree that this is something that we must take a strong stand against and that it must be severely punished?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209141437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209141438	I agree that this is something that we should take very seriously and that we should certainly distance ourselves from it, and we should not be naive either. But it also has to be done in some way, whether it is a problem we have, and perhaps that is where we are a little challenged, because there is not a lot of cases where such a thing has happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209141500	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And while the Social Democrats' rapporteur is preparing for the next one, I can just use the time to welcome the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209141524	Thank you. With the proposal here, the Danish People's Party wants a doubling of the penalty framework. That is the one thing that lies in the proposal. I do not immediately see whether this is the framework for penalties under paragraph 1. It shall be 11⁄2 years; it shall be from fine to prison for up to 1 year and 6 months or in accordance with paragraph 1. 2, the stricter provision where the penalty is between fines and up to 6 years in prison. If the penal framework means the first, i.e. the general one for less vandalism, if that is the case, then the Left can fully endorse the proposal here. I have to say that punishment is not exactly what hits me the most in the present, because the practice of the courts is so helpless away from what the penalties indicate, even for the most serious crimes. So whether the penalty is one thing or the other is not the most important thing here. What is crucial, as I said earlier on a question, is also not what the prosecution claims. No, of course that's what the judges are judging; that's what's called the normal punishment. And there I note that the Minister is willing to make the case law available, and we are, of course, waiting for it. I have the feeling that, in the long, by far the majority of cases, the case law will be about a fine, as the proposers indicate in the proposal itself. I have to say that is far too little when it comes to vandalism against cultural heritage memories and monuments at all. That is why, of course, the Left can support us getting a normal sentence called prison. Then the Social Democrat rapporteur indicated that it put everyone in prison. No, it doesn't. Fortunately, we have provisions in the criminal code, namely those against minimum penalties, paragraphs 81 and 82, which say that the courts may have a normal level, but that it is nevertheless permissible to allow individual circumstances to be involved in the final determination of penalties, and they will of course also apply here. There is one point that has not been mentioned by previous rapporteurs, and that is the issue of civil liability. Who really has to pay to get Frederik V pulled out of the canal? And who will actually pay for the destruction that is happening? Yes, if you look at the right to compensation, is there any doubt that it should be the cause of the injury, but are those claims being made? Actually, I doubt that's gonna happen. And that is why it must be a wish on the part of the Left that we should focus on the fact that those who order the music will also pay for it and, in this case, that the public authorities who have to pay for this mess will also recover the amounts, possibly with the wage retention, from those who have caused the damage. The Left can support the proposal and look forward to further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209141828	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is... sorry, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, but I can see that there is Uffe Elbæk outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209141846	Sorry I pushed the button a little too late. I am not the legal rapporteur of the Free Greens, but I would still like to ask a question in my own right, one might say. When you go in and say that you have to raise the penalty, there is usually a good basis for it: there is a professional study, which is a clearly formulated need. I just want to know what the need is for such a change.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209141922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209141923	The need can be seen in the yellow books in the corner: Karnov's Law Collection. There you will see that in the vast majority of cases fines have been imposed only in these situations. If you are in favour, as I am, of having a certain preventive effect, then that is not enough, in my view and in the view of the Left. So that is basically the reason why we want the level to be raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209141948	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209141951	I have followed this debate, and it varies from one country to another, that for good reasons people disagree with what has happened down at the Academy of Fine Arts and to discuss identity policy, and it gets the whole palette. Now we're talking about changing the law on justice, and we're talking about tightening it up. So I just want to know, how big is the problem? Is the rapporteur aware or can the rapporteur demonstrate that this is an increasing problem or what are we talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209142028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209142029	I do not have an overview of the scale of the problem, including whether it is increasing or decreasing, but I think that it is not necessary either. If you think this is a problem, whether it is decreasing or increasing, then you have to assess whether the penalty is proportional according to the problem, and we on the Left do not think that is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209142054	Then there is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209142058	Thank you for supporting this proposal. I just have a question for mr. Preben Bang Henriksen also gave birth to Mr. Uffe Elbæk's question. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur if it is not true that the starting point in these cases is fines and not imprisonment. And what is wanted in this proposal is to see to it that the starting point is imprisoned if we fight our cultural heritage memories, our history.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209142128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209142129	As I hope I have said before, I have no doctorate in section 291 of the Criminal Code about the person who destroys and damages these objects, and I cannot answer exactly what the case law is. However, when I look at the decisions that are at least reproduced in Karnov's legislative code, it seems that the starting point is a fine. However, I welcome the Minister's commitment that we will have a more precise review.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209142201	There will then be no further brief comments to the rapporteur of the Left, and I welcome the rapporteur of the SF, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209142216	Thank you for the floor. This proposal is intended to ensure that people who vandalize cultural heritage memories, statues or the like are put in prison for the first time. And that is so, despite the fact that the proposers do not know any Danish examples of this happening. I have been able to find some examples of such things happening, but it is mostly about cultural heritage memories such as burial mounds, and then I have found an example with a protected dune that one can hardly claim to be a cultural heritage memory, but I will return to that. That's bad enough, too. There is no place in the world for people to do any harm to these things knowingly or in haste. This summer TV 2 Nord reported that there were several burial mounds in the Water Plantage, Tvorup Plantage and Nystrup Plantage in National Park Thy, which during the summer had been subjected to vandalism. There were some perpetrators who, in cars, you think they're four-wheel drivers... have been driving up and down these protected burial mounds, with large and wide lanes as a result. And that, unfortunately, it is not a single swallow, Nordjyllands Historic Museum can tell about. In 2015, at least it could be read that they often find damage to ancient memories. An inventory from the museum, which oversees 6,000 ancient memories, shows that about every 12 ancient memory has been subjected to vandalism. You don't know if you feel safe and safe up here! I'm betting I can move on. But it is evidently quite common for such vandalism to take place. And then there is probably the most well-known example, which is the case from 2019, where citizens could see that some had driven a construction machine into the dunes at Skagen Sønderstrand and molested these dunes. And they're protected, they're not cultural heritage memories, but it's estimated that it cost almost 0.5 million. kr. To restore these dunes. Now, according to a prosecutor from the Østjyllands Politiken, the case is being brought before the court in April and there is therefore an application for a prison sentence, which shows that it can be invoked in some cases at least. I think that is enough for the SF, and that is why we are not going to support this proposal. On the other hand, I think there's some music in there, as Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen mentioned that when you do these injuries, it is also reasonable that you have to bear the cost of the damage and the recovery. In the above example of the dunes, therefore, the figure was 0.5 million. kr., and I think that is actually more preventative than the prison sentence itself, because once people get hit on their finances, they often think much more about it. And then I have to say that the most preventative thing, and we know this from research, is the risk of discovery, and unfortunately it is too small. That is probably why you are free to take your four-wheel drive and plow through such a cultural heritage memory. We are fortunate that the case of the dunes has been solved, but I imagine it is difficult to find the perpetrators of many of the violations of, for example. ancient monuments in North Jutland. Against this background, I believe that the rules, at least for the time being, are okay as they are. Until we find other examples in the future which show that there is a very small penalty and where we do not think it is proportional, I will wait for a new piece of legislation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209142608	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Uffe Elbæk, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209142612	I think these were some really, really good examples that were mentioned here, where citizens have been seen to be desecrating historical memories of the past. This is a mere assumption, I have no idea about it, but why does the rapporteur think this proposal now appears, whereas the other cases have not led to the proposalers being very, very anxious to discuss how the citizens of Jutland and other good places have run up and down our burial mounds? Is there any thought about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209142659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209142700	As I understand it, this is, of course, about the debate on the so-called plaster cast, which has been deliberately thrown into the port, and this has also led, I believe, to a debate on questions last week. Since I am not a cultural rapporteur, I have not followed it very closely, but I understand that a majority has also pulled off this matter and done something about this Academy of Fine Arts where it has happened. I think we are actually faced with a huge problem, which I also explained here, namely that a great many memories of the past are being desecrated, and I imagine that it is very difficult to find out who is behind it. I think that, at least for the moment, is a rather bigger problem than the other one.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209142752	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209142753	I very, very much agree that the examples mentioned by the rapporteur have a much greater scope and consistency. We had a long debate in several hours a week ago about this plaster copy down at the Academy of Fine Arts. Personally, I think that what has happened down there is completely stupid, but I think, as I said, that there must be consistency between the action and the importance of the things that we then do afterwards. I would just like to say that I think that the examples mentioned here by the rapporteur should have received much, much more attention than a plaster sculpture at an educational establishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209142843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209142844	Thank you. Maybe I think so too. It may well be that in the future we will change the rules. I do not know that, but it certainly requires us to see that there is a big and insurmountable problem before we enter into that discussion. I may think that there is something in this, but it should concentrate on the rules on compensation, and I think it would be interesting to get the drill out if, when you get to know the perpetrators who destroy ancient memories, you send them the bill for the damage they have caused. In any case, I think that is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209142920	Thank you very much to the SF rapporteur. If the rapporteur would be kind enough to prepare the platform for the next rapporteur, who is from the Radical Left. And this is sir. Kristian Hegaard. If there's a bump from the lift, I just want to say that there shouldn't be any technical problems. It's just in connection with a desire to express itself from the lift. Welcome to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209143016	Yes, I had almost committed vandalism on a historic building on my way up to the platform, as the elevator was somewhat hacky, but fortunately the building is still intact. It is said that one must learn from history, from the past in order to understand the present and shape the future. Sadly, some have taken too literally the shape of the future. Shaping is not something you do physically in vandalism, except for your own future with a trip to the judicial system. History is there no matter what and does not disappear from the vandalism of historical or cultural works. History is there and we must learn from it. Vandalism in any form is unacceptable. It is child learning that you should not destroy something that is not your own. This also applies to the vandalism of historical and cultural works. If you get caught in the act, you must of course have a hard and proper punishment for it. That's how the justice system works. However, it must be up to the courts to assess what constitutes aggravating circumstances in a specific situation, which is why we in the Radical Left do not see the need to legislate further, but trust that the courts, as part of the division of power, will determine the right punishment, even when it comes to crimes relating to the vandalism of historical and cultural works. I welcome the fact that everyone here unanimously from the platform has said that we are opposed to vandalism. That is a very good starting point, and we agree on that. But the Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209143211	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Radicals, so the next rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209143240	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I think that the debate on penalties is a little difficult. It is as if we are in the middle of such a crusade at the moment, when we are raising the penalties in one place, and then they get out of proportion in the next place, and then you raise them there, and that is how you can go on and on. And perhaps I would like us to have a discussion at some point, that is to say, a more general discussion, about the level, rather than taking things so completely separately. But okay, we are then in the process of one of these individual proposals, where the level of punishment must be raised precisely here, at least in relation to the relatively large penalty framework, which, after all, is. And we are in complete agreement on the part of And that can be done, for example. be statues, including relatively new plaster casts. That is to say, it must be preserved; it must not be redesigned. But it's also graveyards. After all, we saw terrible attacks, Nazi attacks on the Jewish cemetery in Randers, which is also a cultural memory and an ancient memory deeply abhorrent, and fortunately there was also a serious judgment. These are also houses, they are burial mounds, they are memories that lie in the earth; these are the golden horns, I had almost said. There are plenty of ancient memories to be preserved. In relation to what the Danish People's Party has addressed here and what is the occasion for this debate, I would like to ask: is this the biggest problem we have? And I have to say, we don't feel that way. In fact, we feel that there is a major problem, which consists both of something that is not at all punishable, that is not really punishable, and then something that is not being punished very seriously. We can take two areas there, and Mrs Karina Lorenzen Dehnhardt has already mentioned one, that is to say the question of agriculture, in relation to the enormous destruction of cultural heritage in the country and where it is very difficult to come after it. We really want to look at that. But that's just one area. The second is when participation gets through and just runs away without taking into account the cultural heritage or any cultural heritage. We have an example from Aalborg, where in six cases in 5 years a real estate company failed to contact Nordjylland's Historical Museum, although where they built the properties, exactly in areas where there was a lot of cultural heritage, a lot of cultural heritage. I do not know whether they were brought to justice; I do not know whether they were sentenced to prison or what. But of simple profit interests they failed to get North Jutland's Historical Museum involved, so that they could just close their eyes to whether there might be some gold horns in the ground. Now, here we have some very major problems and we would very much like to take a look at it but like taking a single, very isolated example as a basis for the discussion we do not think that is very appropriate. So, yes, we will certainly not deny that there must be an increase in this area in relation to better defence of cultural memories and heritage. It must be based on the fact that we will then have some report work or a thorough report, including, of course, that we will have some information on what the penalties are at this stage, as a basis for us to be able to take that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209143657	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209143700	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard and Enhedslisten are actually for a positive reception of this, as long as you don't see it in isolation; you have to see it together with some other things. Yes, I will choose to take that up positively, and hopefully we can have a dialogue in the Folketing on how to tighten up these things. I'm just gonna ask sir. Søren Søndergaard to what the Social Democrats say. It is said that the value is probably over DKK 15 000 before anything happens, and then you give a penalty etc. etc. Is it not to take it too lightly if you have that attitude? For as Mr. Søren Søndergaard actually describes quite vividly, I think, something that is so insulting, something that is so grotesque, so violent, and where there is a political-historic signal in it that it is too violent and that the level of punishment we have today is too low.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209143804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209143807	At any rate, as I said, it seems to us that it is a major problem that cultural heritage is being violated, which is not being investigated and which, as such, is not subject to any penalty at all. It is certainly not something that is being taken up. Therefore, the right way to do this is to say that there is a problem in relation to cultural memories, cultural heritage that we need to look at. Let us get some people who know something about this to go in and investigate how big the problem is, what should be covered and what should not be covered by any criminal provisions and where that penalty should lie, and that must of course be done in the context of looking at practice. We are positive about this. That's just not what this proposal does. We think it should be broader. We think that the whole palette should be included, because otherwise we get this hoofsa law, where you can then make one type of destruction of cultural memories... it doesn't even come before a court... and then there's another type where you have to have a severe punishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209143909	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209143911	I actually think we agree, except, of course, that we would have liked Enhedslisten to support this, but we do not, but Enhedslisten certainly agrees with the principle: that we have to have a look at this. That's where I'd like to ask sir. Søren Søndergaard, if not Mr. Søndergaard. Søren Søndergaard also agrees that even if a destruction amounts to less than DKK 15,000, it can in fact be much worse than the current penalties allow, because it only allows for fines if the destruction amounts to less than DKK 15,000.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209143948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209143948-2	To that I would say that I cannot immediately understand that, but it is possible, and I would like to use such investigation work to learn more about it. That is why it can sometimes be an advantage that penalties are not something that is decided or dictated by a resolution in the Folketing, but something that is based on some rather more thorough work. Then I just want to say in the end that it is not therefore an independent purpose for Enhedslisten to disagree with the Danish People's Party. It happens fairly often, but it is not because it is a purpose to disagree with the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209144023	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209144026	I think that what the rapporteur points out is very sensible, namely that if we are to go in and make legislation, it must be done on the basis of good and thoroughly examined material and that we know how big the problem is and that if we are to go in and tighten up the criminal framework at all, there must be consistency between the judgment and what has actually been done. So my question is actually more fundamental: Does Enhedslisten think that sending people to prison in such a case is the right solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209144110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209144111	No, that is to say, we are of the opinion that the value of prison sentences for certain types of crime has its limit, but that does not mean that we can say that there must be impunity just because it does not help. Sometimes you may have to sentence, even if the value of it is limited. It's just a realization that we've come to. But the proposals which are aimed at obtaining a follow-up judgment or perhaps a judgment for damages, that is to say, replacing what has been lost, which means that, if so, there will be a far higher level of compensation than what is being done today, we are completely open to debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209144202	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209144204	There is something that I find interesting in this discussion. The set-up is this plaster copy of a statue that's been destroyed down at the Academy of Fine Arts. There are those who have caused the damage, after all, stood up and said that it was they who did it, whereas those tractor drivers who have run up and down the ancient memories in Jutland have absolutely not stood by their action. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209144239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209144240	I think that, of course, it gives a different dimension to the discussion, but it cannot be the case that just because you stand up and recognise that you have done something, you do not have to take responsibility for it. But I can also say that the people who have done so have actually been given responsibility. I am familiar with some people who have been dismissed and have thus lost their jobs, and there has probably also been or may be a case brought, and then there will be some judgment. And it has to be done whether you are standing up or being discovered in any other way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209144314	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209144348	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for focusing on our common cultural heritage and the problem of autumn vandalism, which is totally unacceptable and crazy. Anyone who does not learn from history is forced to repeat it, so when certain groups or individuals in these times try to demolish statues and throw out cultural heritage with the bathing water, it is a sign of a deeply misunderstood historical understanding. Because history in its nature is something that has taken place. Therefore, the idea that one can change history by removing or vandalising statues and other monuments is just an illusion. Let's focus on learning from our history instead of censoring it. At present there is a fundamental confrontation between today's values and the standards of the past. One of the ways this is expressed is in a deeper understanding of the past and its characters. Whether it is racism or sexism, we have become more aware of the shadows of our historical people. That development is in itself positive, because when we deal with history we treat ourselves. Thus a more nuanced insight into our past means a stronger self-understanding in the present. Therefore, I look at with deep indignation when certain movements and people use today's necessary debates to censor history by removing or vandalizing statues. The motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party to double the penalty for vandalising cultural heritage memories, statues and monuments, and for the punishment to be in prison as a starting point, we have sympathy for. We also believe that there should be a much greater focus on emphasising and clarifying section 194, which today does not include cultural heritage. This means that it is punishable in advance, but in relation to § 194, cultural heritage is not included. At any rate, no one has been convicted under the paragraph in terms of the watering down of cultural heritage. History is probably the greatest threat to progress. It is disrespectful to destroy history, for if it is destroyed, we will also displace the mistakes that we should not repeat for everything in the world. Vandalism should never be a solution. Instead, it must be replaced by information, dialogue and more history teaching. We must learn from history and not displace it. In the Conservative People's Party, we are deeply opposed to any destruction of the cultural heritage and the culprits must be prosecuted and the penalty must be higher. However, in relation to the motion for a resolution, we believe that there are already good opportunities in the legislation to punish the perpetrator or woman with imprisonment up to six years. Paragraph 291 of the Act. 2 provides that if vandalism is carried out of a significant scale or of a systematic nature, or if the perpetrator/woman has previously been found guilty of vandalism, or if the perpetrator/woman has committed vandalism subject to a number of provisions, including § 194, the penalty may increase by up to 6 years in prison. So I believe that today there is an opportunity in the law to punish harder. The question is how we get the courts to do so, but also how we can get vandalism and vandalism to be covered by Article 194. We would like to discuss this in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209144752	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209144755	I fully agree with the rapporteur that we must reject vandalism and vandalism. We need criminal law that reflects it. I would like to start by saying that. My question is, in a sense, a bit teasing, but it is also well-intentioned and it is genuinely curious. Now we are discussing based on a statue that has been thrown into the harbour of Copenhagen. It is a plaster copy that has been thrown in the harbour of Copenhagen. That's what makes us stand here today talking. If you put the action against what we heard from the SF's rapporteur on people who marvel at ancient monuments and burial mounds in Jutland, what is the most serious vandalism from the point of view of the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209144854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209144855	But all kinds of vandalism on statues and similar cultural heritage are bad and must be punished. We think it's okay to find out if you can punish harder. It may well be that we have not experienced it to a greater extent in Denmark, but that is what we do in other countries. In other countries, they are doing more hard work. That is why I believe that it would be preventative for us to signal that the penalty should be tougher.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209144928	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209144928-2	Is that correct, when I heard the rapporteur say that it is just as serious when we see that the citizens of the province are now saying it, as they are marring burial mounds, as what we have seen at an educational establishment in Copenhagen, so that those actions are completely equal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209144955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209144956	I don't want to stand here and weigh and measure whether they're equal. The courts have to do that. Both are deeply reprehensible and must be condemned.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209145011	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209145039	Today we are discussing B 66 on increasing the penalty for vandalizing cultural heritage memories, statues, monuments and the like. This is an interesting proposal put forward by DF. On the global stage, we can all remember the emotions it brought about when we saw the Islamic State destroying the world cultural heritage in Iraq, and we can probably also remember the emotions it brought about when we saw Notre Dame burn in 2019. The fact that we were filled with horror at those events shows that we feel attacked as people when the past is destroyed. But this does not just apply globally. Here in Denmark we have also witnessed the destruction of our common culture in recent years: statues have been painted over because some twisted leftists have thought that the statues legitimise slavery, and cultural heritage has been thrown into the harbor because it represents colonial times. With the actions we have witnessed here at home, one cannot help but sit back with the feeling that some on the left wing of identity hate Denmark and Danish culture so much that they will destroy what we share as a heritage, and that vandalism is really an expression of oikophobia in its purest form, because our cultural heritage memories are more than just material or historical objects. It's the kit itself that binds us together as people. It may even be some of the very things that create a people. In this sense, destruction of cultural heritage memories is also the destruction of the folk soul, the destruction of Denmark and the Danish one, because how can one even talk about Denmark and the Danish one, if it is not for the past we share? That is why, of course, it is also crucial that we safeguard our common past and our shared stories if we want to continue to feel the community we are doing. However, we must do more for our common cultural heritage, not only cultural heritage, but also our natural heritage with our coastlines, seabed and natural monuments such as burial mounds and other ancient monuments. And here's harder punishment one tool. But we should also focus more on information and education, both politically and as a people. As living generations of Danes, we have a common obligation to convey the understanding of the values on which our country, our people and our culture are based. However, when it comes to protecting the common, it is our responsibility as politicians to ensure what is of particular value to our national community of values and which previous generations have preserved, both culture and nature. This is, in my view, the very cornerstone of a civil policy, which is why I very much welcome the resolution and, of course, New Citizens can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209145343	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209145346	Now someone from the left is standing up, someone who thinks that there are plenty of goods and relevance in the identity policy discussion, and then the stage is set. I can hear from the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party, no, I mean New Civil Same, but different that it is important to appreciate its history, the Danish history, and that it is important that we cherish it, and it is important that we discuss it etc. If you ignore the fact that an action has taken place at the Academy of Fine Arts, which I do not in any way support, and instead look at the intention behind the action, which was to discuss the colonial history of Denmark, is that discussion relevant?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209145439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209145439-2	It is always relevant to discuss how we as a people and as a culture can develop in a positive direction, give more freedom to people, have a better life together and create a society where the opportunities for the Danes living in Denmark are better. Having said that, there is no excuse for vandalism, either by individuals or by the state for that matter, on our natural heritage and cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209145505	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209145506	I am actually pleased to hear that the rapporteur says, that is to say, to look directly at the darker parts of our history, so that we can learn from it. I am glad that this is being emphasised. The rapporteur then mentioned in his speech that the desecration of statues in itself is incomprehensible and that we must oppose it. Well, I guess it's about the context. So, I can give you some examples of how statues have been overturned, where I could understand so much that it was done whether it was Lenin statues in the Soviet Union or when the citizens overturned Saddam Hussein statues in Iraq. Isn't this about the context?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209145547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209145548	I always think that one can reasonably discuss whether a statue is relevant to have standing in a square or a square, where it is somehow hailed, or whether it is something that is part of a context in which, for example, one can maintain it in a museum or elsewhere as part of the story, which also means hopefully that one does not repeat the gloomy episodes of the past, but that one learns about them and that one remembers them. If I look at the former East Germany, I would say that there are parts of East Germany about which I think: think if you had wiped it out; think if we could not come down to see how terrible it really was. I believe that we learn from our past by keeping it in some form or other not by exposing it to vandalism.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209145634	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no more brief comments. Then I've got information that it's not because the speaker's gotten stuck. That's because it doesn't have to make any noise when we run it up and down. So now it's like it's there. Here you go to the next rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209145703	Thank you. When crimes are committed in Danish society, most of which are opposed by the vast majority, there are also sometimes sports in this House about some who want to claim that they are more opposed to those crimes than everyone else, and then they make a motion for a resolution that the penalty should be higher. In this way you can prove that you are more against it than anyone else, but it is not evidence that you are more against it than everyone else because you are tabling resolutions on higher penalties. It might be that the level of punishment is appropriate. I also feel the same way about this proposal, which we will be voting against. I do not think it has been explained that the level of punishment here is unacceptablely low and that there are no other penalties, and I do not think that the level of punishment that you want to achieve is in line with other levels of punishment, and that is why we are going to vote against it. But I think it raises a theme that we should discuss here in the Folketing. It is my impression that there is such a general undervaluation of the crime committed with political motives in Denmark, or also with professional motives, one might say. For it is both when people with a political motive commit illegalities and when people with trade union motives commit illegalities; then it is as if they say: then it is not so bad; then we can accept it just as well, because they are good people; they are the people on the left, and that is the trade union movement, and so on, and it is about higher wages, and it is about some who want something good for people in Africa and something like that. I think it is exactly the opposite. I think that when people commit crimes with those motives, that they simply want to influence society in a certain direction, and when they are willing to take the law into their own hands, it gets much worse. So when someone's there, for example. going out and blocking traffic in the morning so that people cannot get to work because they want to draw attention to some political matter that they think is very important, it is my impression that they are not really being punished. And I'm thinking, these people are gonna be severely punished because they take the law into their own hands with the aim of influencing society politically. Or it may be that someone overturns a scaffolding on Nørrebro because they are fighting a battle against the companies that have set the scaffolding up and against the way people are employed in those companies. And then today, when it's ended up with that, I know, there's only one charge... despite the fact that the police were very numerous in attendance and that it was all filmed on camera... because it's a professional fight, and that's kind of okay, so I'm also thinking: No, that should give an even higher penalty than usual. This also applies to the destruction of statues; if it is politically motivated, we should also consider whether it belongs to a place where it is even worse. But it must be seen in the context of all the other politically motivated violence and politically motivated crimes that are there. That's why we can't look at this in isolation. Then there is one general thing: instead of constantly discussing whether the courts have the right level of punishment in relation to what the people expect, why, at some point, do we not set up a citizens' panel with, for example, the right level of punishment? 10,000 Danes who are confronted with a computer and are asked to decide whether one crime should lead to higher penalties than the other. And then, when they have all answered 100 questions and we have got some sort of hierarchy of penalties, where each person has answered the 100 questions, we have gradually, when 10,000 people have done so, the representative criminal hierarchy of the citizens. Then we can compare it with the criminal hierarchy actually exercised by the courts, and then we can see whether the courts are in a bad way compared with what the citizens of Denmark actually want there to be of punishment depending on the nature of the crime. I think that would be a good way to proceed. If you do not want to ask 10,000, you could also ask the 179 elected by the citizens of the Folketing how they weigh various crimes and the punishment to be handed out, depending on whether it is one or the other crime. The fact that we are constantly having a discussion about whether the courts have understood what the people really want is actually a rather tiring debate, and I am not even the legal rapporteur on a daily basis, so I do not have to worry about it every week, as the rest of you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209150139	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209150143	I just need to understand, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Because on the one hand, Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen and the Liberal Alliance, that it is a sluggish tendency that there are some politicians in here who, because there has been something in the public debate or something has happened in society, would like to have higher penalties; but on the other hand, Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen, as it were, is that when it is a politically determined act, for example. If you do vandalism and knock down a statue of Winston Churchill in England or throw a statue of Frederik V in the harbor, then you have to put in a hard place, and it has to be an aggravating circumstance. I don't really understand what's right here. Well, where does the Liberal Alliance want to go? Will you support the proposal, which states precisely that because it is a totally deliberate political act, that you are doing what you are doing, against cultural heritage memories, our history, it must be punished more severely, or will you not support that proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209150242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209150244	We think it is worth talking about whether politically motivated crime or professionally motivated crime should have a higher level of punishment than other forms of crime and higher than today. There's that discussion with Mr. Peter Skaarup has also said in the course of the debate that now we have to send a signal; this is that when a crime is committed in society, a signal must be sent from the Danish Parliament at the request of the Danish People's Party that it is too wrong that the crime is committed further. So what? Then a crime of the same kind is committed a month later... has the signal catalogue been exhausted? Can we then see that enough signals have been sent out, or should we do it all over again? Because a crime has been committed again, even though the penalty has been lifted. Should we then have the debate in this Chamber about whether we should increase the penalty once again, because a signal must now be sent again? I think the argument behind this is limping.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209150345	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209150348	Ole Birk Olesen must think about the legal policy and the sending of signals and adopting higher penalties if that is what is at issue, which is exactly the same as other policy areas. If something happens in society with our working environment, where some people do strange things that make our employees not have a proper working environment, then perhaps we should take stock of it in here at Christiansborg. If something happens to our fishing as a consequence of something out there in the big world, we might have to take stock of it in here at Christiansborg. The same is true of justice policy. If something happens in the world that means we have to tighten the screw with higher penalties, then we have to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209150430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209150432	Well, the Liberal Alliance isn't in favour of that signal transmission. We are in favour of establishing the correct level of penalties. Then the question is, how do we find it? But we are in favour of that. Because if you have the correct level of punishment, there will still be crimes. Is it to be said that now a crime has been committed again, whether it has to do with the working environment or with the criminal code, and now we have to send a signal again, and that is why we need to get the punishment to a higher level than what we actually thought was the best? I mean, this is not a policy we are in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209150505	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209150507	Thank you. I can actually understand this: it should not be a constant struggle to constantly send out new signals and raise sentences in one place. But I really think there is something very relevant in saying: here we have a problem with this identity policy agenda which, after all, goes beyond any cultural heritage or natural heritage, monuments, etc. that we cannot just get back and which may as a result have a different meaning for us as people than if it is a scaffolding or something that is being overthrown. In other words, what one can replace financially is anything else equal to replace what is Kronborg Palace, or whatever else we may have of cultural heritage, monuments, etc. Well, then, sir. Ole Birk Olesen does not see that, in view of the development of identity policy that we have seen in recent years, and this attempt to patent the story from a part of the left, is now more needed to focus on this than there might have been in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209150615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209150617	Well, we are in favour of greater punishment, the more valuable objects you destroy. Well, if you go out and kick a plank and a board breaks, then the penalty for that vandalism shouldn't be as great as if you take some valuable sculpture and vandalize it in a way so that it can't be restored. And it has already been incorporated into the legislation: that there is a difference between whether you destroy small things or whether you destroy very valuable things. So that's how we agree. Cultural heritage is, of course, something very valuable and must therefore also give rise to a much greater punishment. However, I think it would be natural to look at whether we should consider it more seriously than we do today, that people are trying to get attention about their political views or force their political views by using violence and vandalism. A few years ago, some young people were given a taxpayer-paid house by the Social Democracy in Copenhagen because they destroyed the whole of Copenhagen. They should have had a giant, giant punishment instead, but the Justice Minister's party would rather give them a house.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209150727	Thank you. It's Mrs. Pernille Vermund again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209150730	Well then, I can see that, although we have different approaches to it, we may still be close to agreeing on this. Because it cannot be the case that one can force oneself to rewrite history or to get through its political agenda by destroying common property and thereby destroying part of the history that is the basis for us as people. So thank you for the clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209150800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209150801	Yes, I actually think we agree on the principle, but that we may have different approaches to it, i.e. how to do the work to get to the place you think is ideal. And this is getting too detached for me, while it is possible that Mrs Pernille Vermund can see it in the right context, i.e. that I cannot.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209150821	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209150840	The reason why I have just taken the floor is, of course, that I have entered the debate from the sidelines because I am not the rapporteur for legal policy. And the reason why I did this is that I think that the proposal from the Danish People's Party is so much symbolic policy, and I think that has been emphasized so much in the debate down here: why has there not been as much focus on the fact that grave memories have been destroyed in the province as there is a plaster copy that has been poured into the harbour? And I would like to stress once again that I think it is a perfectly foolish act, but it is in my optics symbolic policy. That's one. The second is that it is a single matter policy. The two things are often linked, and so I have not yet heard good arguments to the effect that there is a serious basis for changing our legal policy in this area. So far no one has been able to say how many cases this is about, apart from one case down at the Academy of Fine Arts. And we have also heard in the debate that perhaps it is not at all the concrete action we are talking about. We're talking about identity policy. That is what people are concerned with, and we can easily do so, but I do not see that the proposal and the changes that are being argued are in line with the concrete action. Personally, I feel that this matter has come completely out of context and has been blown up to something that I do not think it can bear. That is why I took the floor along the way and that is why I took the floor now. I find this unfortunately an example of the worst form of symbolic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209151044	There is a brief comment. Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209151048	Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk for interfering in the debate. And I think that is just what we are in here for, that is to say, to debate and come up with solutions, hopefully, and also with legislative austerity, if that is the case, or whatever we can find out, action plans. I just wanted to say to Mr. Knox. Uffe Elbæk, that it seems a little like he has the assessment that this proposal is about the statue that was thrown into the harbor. I would just like to say: yes, it may be, but the proposal was actually completed in the summer of 2020, when we across several countries, including Denmark, but also Greenland and elsewhere, saw that there had almost been inflation in that old things from colonial times or old historical things from our cultural heritage had just to be destroyed. And you saw crowds running around the streets with the goal of destroying old things. And that is why we said that it simply must not happen. And that's where I'm just gonna ask Mr. Kim. Uffe Elbæk: That's actually very reasonable, isn't it? Isn't it very good that we have some things we take care of, even though there may be a story that we don't like?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209151200	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209151203	We can easily discuss how to take that discussion, can't we? And I have also said, both in this Chamber and in public, that I do not like what has happened down at the Academy of Fine Arts. But I think the discussion is relevant enough. I think the discussion about our colonial history is relevant enough. I find it interesting to hear if people feel marginalized etc. etc. Where we hope to agree is that we are against vandalism, and that is why I am glad that Mr. Peter Skaarup says that this proposal is not closely linked to the concrete action at the Academy of Fine Arts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209151247	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk. Then we shall be through the rapporteur's line, but we shall also be missing the rapporteur for the proposers. Sir. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209151309	Thank you to Parliament's parties for the consideration of this proposal. Some were more in agreement than others, and we will discuss this further. But I have to say, when we are trying to pick up a little bit of the debate, that I can understand that there are some parties in here who are thinking: what was that thing that came from the Danish People's Party? And I must also admit that, before the summer of 2020, I do not think we in the Danish People's Party's Parliament group had the imagination to imagine that it would be necessary to make resolutions of this nature in the Danish Parliament, in which we argue to increase the penalties for vandalisation, vandalism or for the direct destruction of our cultural heritage memories. But what happened and what began in the summer of 2020 actually made a great impression on us and probably on many others as well. After all, we began to see around the world that a number of cultural heritage memories, history, were destroyed and marked as something you didn't like, and therefore it had to be overthrown or destroyed. That wave rolled into the Western world, trying to do away with all sorts of things in our history. And there may be good reasons why you try to do that, but it doesn't have to be done by destroying things where it's all about ruining our story. We saw it in the United States, where there was a statue of a Confederate general to be destroyed. We saw it in England with a statue of Winston Churchill that was subjected to vandalization. And we have also seen it in Denmark, where you have gone after historical things and things in different ways. It's not that much, but we've seen something. I don't need to remind you so much of the genius, or it was a department manager from the Academy of Fine Arts who, along with some so-called artists, stole a bust of Frederik V in November and threw it in the harbour. It was a happening, we must understand. It wasn't stealing, it wasn't vandalism, and they didn't think it was something very wrong, but it was a happening, they said. Or maybe they thought what they were doing was art. This can be discussed back and forth, but it is certainly wrong from the point of view of the Danish People's Party. Who says there won't be any more of these things? Who says that there will be no more paint on different statues, as we saw, for example. on the statue of Hans Egede in Greenland? Of course you can recreate it; of course you can clean it off, in most cases, but it should be unnecessary. It is wrong and it is a mess that we should not, of course, put up with. It can be said that what is a little special about this is that, for a rare time, it is not just about young people, or young immigrants, who are causing problems. No, it is in some of these cases some artists who just think that they should exercise their influence by vandalizing works of art. That is what we are trying to mark from the Danish People's Party. We could close our eyes, but we think it should be highlighted by calling for the penalty to be doubled and for the starting point to be prison when it comes to politically conditional vandalisation. We say in the Danish People's Party that we cannot live in a state governed by the rule of law, where the mob lives out their political and primitive manifestations without any justice whatsoever. And if it starts first, where does it stop? So, is it Christiansborg that was built by a king to be demolished? Or what about Nyhavn or the Lakes, which were probably excavated by some who did not have proper working conditions such as proper working hours, rest periods and agreements that were observed? It was almost real slave relations that those who were behind the excavation of Nyhavn and the lakes in Copenhagen worked under if we see it with the eyes of the present. We can almost walk around all our cities in Denmark and vandalize and destroy anything that is just a few years old and has been performed by people who have somehow contradicted today's thinking and moral concepts if it came to that. He may have been homophobic or sexist or have failed to comply with modern working conditions. Perhaps he was a male chauvinist or beaten his children, was a tyrant or something contrary to today's thinking and behaviour. There may be a lot of good reasons why you think what some people did was wrong, but from there and then this way of vandalizing, it's a long way. And no matter what we think about our past, it doesn't disappear because we destroy physical elements from then. It is particularly important, therefore, that we intervene here and we do not close our eyes in order to preserve what can be saved and preserved for posterity. So we in the Danish People's Party think that we should punish this properly, and others who might come up with a bad idea in the future are thus sending a signal from the Danish Parliament that is not to be misunderstood if we implement this proposal. So that is why we have put it forward. This is so that we do not lose any more invaluable works of art for anarchist demonstrations, or at least they will not be destroyed temporarily, and so that in one way or another we are guarding the cultural heritage memories we have around the cities so that they are not destroyed by those who do not want to take care of our things. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Left and Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, to Conservatives and Mr. Naser Khader and to New Citizens and to Mrs Pernille Vermund for their support for the proposal, in general terms, and I would also like to thank those who have expressed themselves in such a relatively positive way as, for example, Mr President. Mr. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten has a great deal to do with wanting to see it in a larger context, and that we need to look at it more closely, and something like that. One might say that there is indeed a very large number of mandates behind the possibility of doing something here, which means that you do not just regard it as ordinary vandalism in the future when you vandalize cultural heritage memories. Then I also hope that the government will reconsider their position on this. I think it seems, a little, like you close your eyes to the problem. And yes, that's right, as Mr. Jeppe Bruus, that there have not been many cases about it in the short run in Denmark, but they can come, and therefore it is important that we show due diligence and on the political side show where the closet should be, so that we stand on the law-abiding side of the population instead of on the side of those who could do with some political motive to destroy something that is part of our history.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209152111	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209152141	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until further notice. The first person to speak is Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, to justify the request.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209152209	Thank you. We in the Danish People's Party have here raised a question debate on juvenile delinquency, gang crime and religious radicalisation. I can say that these are three different things at first hand, but not yet. Because there is a perfectly natural connection between the three concepts that have one central thing in common: all three phenomena represent a huge problem for our society. It's typically the same kind of kid we see all three places. There is basically no real state strategy to combat these phenomena, and there is no specific education where there is really taught how best to combat those challenges as a society. I have to say that when we in the Danish People's Party follow everything that is happening in our society, there are unfortunately huge, huge problems in these three areas. We're very worried. We believe that, basically, a much more coherent effort is needed by the Folketing and by the government and the authorities to do what can be done to combat the three developments. We believe that higher penalties and more police are needed, but that is not enough. We have to do something else, too. When we have raised this query debate, in which these three elements include juvenile delinquency, gang crime and radicalisation, it is for the simple reason that there is this striking connection between them. Uncomfortable youths commit juvenile delinquency, juvenile criminals develop into gang criminals, and gang criminals sometimes become religiously radicalized. We want society to strike hard so that we can combat these worrying trends in the best possible way. But it has to be in a precise way, and it has to be based on knowledge of what works and how it is done. I'm afraid it's not like that yet. We have been given a little higher penalties and even higher penalties. We've got a little more police, and we need even more police. But we also need the training of those who have to work directly with young criminals. So we need modules, preferably on both the pedagogic and social worker programmes, which specifically train the students for this task. We must also ensure that there are diploma courses in which other professional groups can enter. For basically, professionalism is needed. We can see that in the answers we have received from the government. We've been asking a lot about it over the past six months. We can see from the answers that there is not enough coherent action and that there is also not enough training for those who have to deal with these three phenomena. So we look forward to hearing what the government can come up with and what we can work on in the Folketing. That's why we called this inquiry debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209152522	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions, and then it is the Minister of Justice for Justice for an answer. Here you go, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209152546	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the question. The debate, and Mr. Peter Skaarup too, with his wording is somewhat broad in it, but it is basically about how we prevent young people from being radicalised and becoming part of the gang environment, and this is an important debate. We see a worrying development, particularly that young criminal groups with a high degree of readiness for violence are attracted to groups of radicalised Islamists. The government's policy of combating juvenile delinquency is two-legged. On the one hand, we have the preventive work of the police and the authorities, which aims to take action as early as possible to prevent our young people from getting on the wrong side of the law. The government's preventive action is based on a principle of reaching out to young people who are going into something criminal but want something different for themselves. They must have an outstretched hand and an offer to get back into the community. We have to help them for them. We have to help them for us. We must help them to ensure that we have a safe and secure society all together. On the other hand, there must also be a tangible consequence for those who choose to become criminals and thus opt out of the community. Unfortunately, as you know, there are also young people who do not want to be helped: the gangs that create insecurity in, among others. Vollsmose and at Blågårds Plads, young crazy drivers etc. Unfortunately, not everyone wants a life outside crime, and they must feel that choosing the community from and choosing crime has a clear consequence. This is necessary if we are to get them away from the criminal course and this is necessary for the sake of the sense of justice. Let me spend some time talking about those two legs. If we take a closer look at preventive action, the new multi-year agreement for the police and prosecution authorities will give us a strengthened police force that has moved closer to the citizens. Twenty new local police stations will be set up, and local and security-building police work will be strengthened with a total of 110 extra officers up to 2023. The agreement gives us a local police force which will be even more visible, for example. In troubled residential areas where young people meet and cause trouble, and which may also be marked by the presence of the gangs. As a follow-up to gang package III from 2017, the police employed 25 civilian staff for preventive work in particularly vulnerable residential areas. The effort is targeted at young people at the risk of being recruited into gangs. Civil employees are among other things: helping to support cooperation with local actors such as schools, municipalities, clubs, residents, and employees, together with police officers, help to increase police presence in the most heavily burdened areas. In addition, a large part of the work is done to prevent gang recruitment and other illegal crime through local SSP cooperation. SSP cooperation takes care of children and young people who have been in contact with the police or who are otherwise of concern. The SSP staff shall decide on the action to be taken, e.g.: I don't know if the police are gonna have to give a heads-up. So the problems of juvenile delinquency cannot be solved by the police alone. This requires a broad approach based on the involvement of a wide range of other authorities and local actors. When it comes to working more specifically to prevent radicalisation and extremism, we have the so-called Danish model. The Danish model is a crime prevention effort built around close cooperation between the police intelligence service, the police and the municipalities in particular. The model is based on tailor-made solutions to prevent and combat extremism and radicalisation. This is happening, among other things. under the auspices of the country's info houses. The concept of infohouse covers crime prevention, which takes place in a forum where key local actors work together to prevent criminal acts with extremist motives. PET's role in relation to the infohouses is inter alia: to support the professionalism of the police in addressing concerns about radicalisation. PET can also dress the local authorities to be able to take action against young people who are on their way into an extremist career. In addition, PET can initiate preventive courses, so-called exit conversations, with radicalised individuals. PET also reaches out to civil actors in society through so-called outreach efforts to prevent radicalisation and extremism through dialogue and cooperation. So, too, in relation to extremism and radicalisation, there is a great deal of work to be done. So for the second leg, because prevention cannot be left alone. There must also be a tangible consequence for young people who defy the community and choose the criminal path. The government has therefore proposed a number of initiatives aimed at striking down on young criminals who are out of educational reach. Among other things: We will shortly be putting forward a legislative proposal to allow the police to introduce security-building residence bans. This is true, for example. in parking lots, in front of shopping centres and at S-train stations, where e.g. young people meet over and over again and create insecurity for the city's citizens, create insecurity that causes ordinary people to take a detour home, make them opt out of the train at night, and make them look over their shoulders when they leave. It is an insecurity that limits the freedom of ordinary people, and the government will not accept that. If you break the residence ban, you must, as a rule, be punished with a fine of DKK 10,000 and, in the second case, you must, as a rule, be punished with 30 days in jail. To this end, we have proposed extending police access to seize valuables from suspects, so that, in future, valuables can also be seized if, for example, they are seized. Turns out someone who's been charged by the police has a public debt. In addition, in December, we increased the penalty by one third for endangering the lives and viability of others, for example. firing fireworks or throwing stones, and we have also tightened the penalty by one third for attacks on people in public service, such as our police or preparedness. In addition, the government has recently put forward two legislative proposals aimed at strengthening efforts to combat madness driving. One was put forward by the Minister for Transport last December and, among other things, lays down. to extend police access to seize vehicles used for driving madness for the purpose of confiscation and sale. The second point I have just made is that it calls for a significant increase in the penalties for the kind of driving of madness which endangers the lives and limbs of innocent people. The government has also strengthened criminal justice against foreign fighters and terrorists. This means that we can prohibit young people from travelling in certain areas and from having contact with other convicted terrorists. We just want to get young people out of these environments. When it comes to getting young criminals back on track, the Youth Crime Board plays a key role. The mention must ensure a rapid consequence of criminal acts and a targeted focus on bringing the young criminal out of crime and back into the community. The young person is also associated with the supervision of juvenile criminal services, which will help to ensure that the decisions of the Youth Crime Board are implemented. In addition, the municipality has the task of ensuring that its decisions remain the right ones for the young person. If the situation of the young person changes, the municipality must refer the matter back to the mention so that the mention can assess whether there is any other form of support or other action that the young person needs. In the case of young people over the age of criminals, the courts are at stake. In addition to a criminal penalty, the courts may also provide for the case to be dealt with by the Youth Crime Board. This process ensures close supervision of young people's development and a high level of support for the new future outside crime. The government's policy is clear: we must strike hard at those who are in the gang environment or in contact with religious radicalisation, and we must stand ready with a helping hand for children and young people who move on the edge of the criminal environment but who want to contribute to the community and society. Thank you for the floor. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209153516	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. One brief comment is now available for the rapporteurs. It's Mrs. Pernille Vermund first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209153525	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I have a brief question: does the government believe that the solution to these problems has something to do with foreign policy? In other words, does the government believe that if we create a new asylum system and ensure that we stop the influx of asylum from the countries that are, after all, causing very major problems in our society, both in terms of radicalisation and in terms of gang crime, and reduce the number of people who are here and thus deported, it will have an effect on the problems we see here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209153556	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209153558	It is indisputable if, for example, we are going to have to do something about it. look at the figures for cases dealt with by the Youth Crime Board, that there is a clear over-representation of children and young people of non-Western origin. We simply need to have a better grasp of this problem, including in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209153621	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209153623	My question to the Justice Minister is a little bit on the same street. I think that much of what the Minister of Justice is saying here is reactive, that is, something that responds to something that has gone wrong with some young criminals, right? As far as driving madness is concerned, you tighten up, yes, but it's gone wrong. That is just one point. The second point is a bit on the same street as Mrs Pernille Vermund's brief remark. In other words, there is a lack of consistency in relation to young criminal immigrants. Today we see a verdict that warns us of expulsion rather than expulsion. So what will the government do to ensure that people who commit serious crime, indeed, are practically complicit in killing, face sanctions in the form of expulsion? How do we ensure that the expulsion sentences we have often talked about in here actually become reality? What's stopping the government here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209153727	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209153729	As the question is put, it leaves the impression that the questioner simply did not listen to the first part of my speech. When the claim is that this is a reactive effort, then I have to say that all the preventive action that the first part of my speech was about is precisely about ensuring that young people do not get involved in crime, that is to say that we take action in time, and that there is cooperation across authorities to ensure that we help young people who would otherwise end up in crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209153802	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209153804	There is, of course, an evaluation, I understand, on the way to the Youth Crime Board, and I would just like to hear from the Minister: if there is a great deal of criticism from professional experts who know a lot about this, will the government be willing to be responsive and make the necessary changes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209153819	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209153821	It would really be strange to answer that question in advance and say: we are cutting off the opportunity for someone to make us wiser. So, despite the fact that the opposite may possibly be the impression, I am not so conceited.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209153841	Thank you to the Minister of Justice in the first place here. Now we are embarking on the debate itself, and the general rules apply to short remarks. The first to speak is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr von der Vring. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209153908	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister of Justice and the government for taking this debate seriously; we also need to do so. As I have just said, today's ruling clearly shows that there is a need for tightening up in relation to young criminals. We have a group of young criminals, most of us have heard about the case, in a huge fight that ends in killings, and we see sentences that mean that many of those involved in the case will be punished, but only given a warning of expulsion, and this shows a little that the zero tolerance and expulsions that we are many in here at Christiansborg asking the government to make sure the situation is not reflected. We are content with warnings to some of the young punks who commit serious, serious crime time and time again. So the good question is, when does the government tighten up on these things, so that if you do serious crime, you will be expelled for the first time if you are not a Danish citizen. I would also like to say, as I began by saying, that some of the things that are needed in relation to young criminals are that very early action is being taken, both for young immigrant criminals, but also for non-immigrants who also commit crime. Action must be taken very early to ensure that you do not get into a criminal career as a criminal youth, as a gang criminal and, in the worst cases, also as radicalised, which might be part of some terrorism. There too, unfortunately, in our news media today, there are cases where criminals appear to be radicalised as well. If we then talk about the need to do more in relation to preventive work, it is because we can see that it is often the case that people grope blindly, in other words that municipalities, regions and states do not have proper cooperation on matters, and the action that then comes is not the same, and it does not have the same direction. We will have problems permanently curbing juvenile delinquency and gang crime if we do not gather our strength and do something similar across the country. What is also true, when you look at the cases that we are constantly confronted with at Christiansborg, is that the problems of young people's crime start incredibly early, and that the alarm bells kind of ring in all sorts of places very early, but that no one really gets done the right thing. This is already true in some cases in kindergarten, where a child's behavior causes concern and where someone may experience that parents may be a little strange. Developments continue at school. This results in several different school shifts. The child changes between special classes and special schools. In the sfo the educators look at it, in the club it is clear, and in the leisure home there are challenges, and it may end with bouncing from a leisure offer or the local football club. The residents' association may be challenged by criminal elements. This is the whole series we hear about time and again at Christiansborg, and the fact is that it often ends up wrong and that it often ends up with incredibly large resources that are used by society on the young criminal, and with incredibly great annoyance for the surroundings of the young criminal. We all see the challenges, but one thing goes again: nobody really knows in this system what to do about it. Some think they have the right solution, others think it is the wrong one, but it is as if you are groping blindly towards the young people who are doing crime. So what is needed is for us to gather our strength and for someone to train to find out what is right and to know what is right so that what we are doing is consistent. I have then asked various ministries which programmes equip students to work on juvenile delinquency and gang crime and radicalisation, and the overall answer, if you look at it, is actually that those who know the most about getting things done on the long track with direct work have not been trained anywhere in our system. They may be self - trained, and there may be different ways to do so. But it is a depressing response that goes back, and that is that there is no real place where they are trained to handle the task as a whole. And that's why the Danish People's Party has wanted this debate, because we want to focus on preventive work as well. We also have a proposal for adoption which we will be presenting here during the debate, and I do not know whether I should read it out or whether the President does so? Fourth Vice-President You may do so). I will, and I'll see if I brought it up here. I haven't, but if the President has it, can I borrow it from the President? Yes, it comes here, so everyone knows what our starting point is. Proposals for adoption The Parliament looks with great concern at the development of juvenile delinquency, gang crime and religious radicalisation. For this reason, the Folketing wants society to find useful ways to combat these significant challenges, while at the same time putting in a hard, consistent and fast way. This must be supported by high professionalism and precision. The Danish Parliament notes that the efforts currently being made are random and inadequate. In addition, the Danish Parliament notes that there is no real training to meet these three major challenges of society. Parliament calls on the government to take the initiative to establish a proper training system to ensure the work of these groups. The Danish Parliament wants the training to be implemented partly in the pedagogic education and partly as part of the training for social worker. In addition, the training must be offered as a module in a diploma course, so that other professional groups can also be trained to work with these major challenges. • V 69).
ParlaMint-DK_20210209154606	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. Then we have got ready for the next rapporteur, who is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Jeppe Bruus, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209154636	Thank you. We have major challenges with children and young people who become part of a more hardcore criminal environment. It is very worrying and therefore it was good that the Youth Crime Board that we are evaluating was established at the time. Something's going really well, and I'm sure something's going to have to be straightened up. But what is at least the first experience is that there are a number of municipalities which, through the treatment provided by the Youth Crime Board, are forced to provide the right response to these children and young people and their families and not necessarily just the cheapest effort. This is just one of the problems that exists: that the municipalities have been under a very hard economic paradigm or regime, which means that sometimes you have been forced to make the cheapest choice instead of the right choice, and that towards some children and young people who have committed crime and who are often also part of a socially burdened environment and a socially burdened family. Then we can stand and point our finger at them and say, "You're stupid parents or some bad families or some stupid kids. Most parents want their kids and kids the best thing I actually don't know anyone who doesn't want to. Then there are some prerequisites which mean that unfortunately there are children and young people growing up in Denmark who end up being part of some hardcore criminal environments. If we really want to change that, we need to change the structures and preconditions that do. And when we get to the Youth Crime Board, and when we discuss gangs and discuss radicalisation, it's often too late. Therefore, like everything else, this starts with the very early effort to make sure that we help those families where we know there are challenges, well, almost even when there is a pregnancy. We can see, of course, with children who are forcibly removed, that once one child has been forcibly removed from a family, the risk for the siblings who grow up is far, far greater. We can look at the statistics, and we also know that it is also quite logical that it is the children and young people who are at risk of ending up as unskilled and even worse in later life, not because it is bad to be unskilled, but also in this context to get into some criminal treadmills. Therefore, this is primarily about the fact that there is a good economy in the municipalities to be able to do the right thing. That is why I am actually very, very proud to be part of a party that also has government power, which has provided one of the best municipal agreements in the last decade, which actually ensures that there is a foundation for delivering the early efforts. It is the same with the compensation reform, which is also about the fact that you can actually deliver the early effort; that we have good day care institutions, some decent educators, schools where there is time for the children. Because that is the prerequisite for us to be able to prevent much of this as well. If we end up with some children and young people who are being rolled into the criminal environment, then of course we have to get to work early. That's what the Juvenile Crime Board is all about. It is a question of taking a hard stand against antisocial and unacceptable behaviour, as we have done with what the Minister also said about the consequences, so that we actually catch them, but of course for the benefit of those children and young people, so that they do not end up becoming even more hardcore criminals. It's a job where there's still really, really much to do. It is about being tough, so you feel that this is stopping now, and you get a chance to get out of a criminal career that is potentially very, very damaging, and at the same time we also have to do everything we can on the preventive side. It will then have an additional dimension when darklighters plague an area of radicalisation in the shelter of religion, which also creates structures in this which make the whole miserable even worse. That is why we need to take action with all the soft, preventive measures, but it also requires economic policy that does not starve the municipalities. That is why it is good that we have a change of government which means that we now have a different priority, also in the light of the crisis we are now facing. Because this is also about who has to pick up the bill for such a crisis. Last, in 2008, it was these families who had to pick up the bill to a large extent. Now we are pursuing a different policy of crisis, and that must also mean that the economy in the municipalities does not actually suffer. Time's up, I see. But we came around a little bit. However, I would like to read out a text for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left and the Conservative People's Party. It reads: Suggested adoption The Parliament wants to combat juvenile delinquency, including religious radicalisation and gang crime. In this context, the Folketing stresses the importance of breaking the food chain to the gangs and preventing religious radicalisation. The Danish Parliament notes that preventive work across ministries and authorities to prevent young people from committing crime as soon as possible is essential for combating juvenile crime. At the same time, the Folketing recognises that there must be an appreciable consequence for those who, despite the preventive work of the authorities, choose the criminal course and, in this context, have among other things. focus on the extent to which the penalties imposed are reasonably used. Parliament calls on the government to continue to work to combat juvenile delinquency with both preventive measures and measures that ensure a noticeable impact on young people, such as: commit gang-related crime. • V 70).
ParlaMint-DK_20210209155242	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, Mrs Pernille Vermund. And I'm sorry if I missed Mrs. Pernille Vermund earlier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209155250	Thank you. So, don't let DF have any critical questions. You can come back to that later. The rapporteur says that it is important for the government and for the social democracy to change the structures that create criminal behaviour and change them early. But it was not so long ago that the rapporteur's own minister stood in the press saying that 15%. children growing up in immigrant families are subjected to violence during childhood. We also have quite clear figures that empathy among children of non-western immigrants is at a significantly lower level than among Danish children. So this definitely has something to do with culture. I would venture to claim that this has to do with Islam and the Islamic Does the rapporteur think that this structure can be changed in Denmark? Does the rapporteur think that politically, with a few extra case officers and some more educators, a difference can be made?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209155357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209155359	Yeah, fortunately, politics makes a difference. I think we can change a culture in which adults beat their children. After all, it is not so many years ago that we abolished the right to rebuke here at home, and where there were also parties to the right here in Parliament who voted against, because at that time it was acceptable; it was almost a natural part of the upbringing to wobble the kids one on the side of the head if they did not listen. When the debate on the right of rebuke was then held, it was said: "Oh, my gosh, that's crazy... now you have to deprive the parents of the right to raise their children. " We don't hear that today. So, of course, we can do something to change a culture, because it is a sick culture in which adults beat their children.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209155440	Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209155442	I am glad that the rapporteur calls this a sick culture, but I would just like to hear one specific example of a country that has succeeded in making Islamic culture less violent. I haven't seen it. In the Middle East, violence is spreading horribly; in our western neighbouring countries, the raison d'être is quite obvious, and in our own country violence, both against children and women, is throughout Islamic culture. And I am not saying that all Muslims are violent, but they have a completely different view of this than we have and to compare real violence with the repeal of the right of reproof, I simply think is to shoot wildly past the goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209155526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209155527	After all, the rapporteur asked me whether I could imagine changing a culture through legislation, and then I gave a concrete example. 20-30 years ago, there was also an organisation called the Pedophile Association, which lobbied Christiansborg to make it legitimate for adults to have sex with children and to recognise the relationship of love that could be, which is quite absurd. I am now in favour of discussing Islam here, and I fully agree that there is a huge cultural problem, and that is also what I highlighted in my speech, but fortunately politics makes a difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209155600	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209155604	Thank you. I think so, sir. Jeppe Bruus takes some of these things lightly. I remember that we in the Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs visited Gellerup at Aarhus a few years ago, and what was striking for the committee was that we were told by the police that some of these immigrant boys start with less crime at the age of 6-7 and that their crime escalates when they are 12-14 years old. There it is typical that the older brothers say to the younger brothers: Now you are going to start the more extensive crime. And then it's all gonna work out. Then that is what we have had the juvenile delinquency board set up, and it is a good thing that we could not have the criminal low age lowered. But I'd like to ask Mr. Jeppe Bruus: As a young immigrant criminal, when you have passed the Youth Crimes Board, Mr. Jeppe Bruus looked at the fact that there are some well-educated, tried and tested people in the municipalities and regions who take over and make sure that the young person gets on the right track? Are we confident that this will happen, or isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209155714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209155716	I'm being accused of taking it lightly. So, I think it is quite horrible that we have had a bourgeois government for many years that has cut down on the ability of the municipalities to give the right and early effort, because that is where it starts; that is exactly where it starts. Then it is quite right that when you reach 12-14 years of age and you have not succeeded in bringing the young person in through preventive action and everything else, then the hammer must fall. And you have to at that age, that is when you reach the teenage age, to be faced with the choice: Now you can make an independent choice; it may well be that you have grown up with bad cards on hand, and that it can explain many things, but it can't excuse you now just being dragged along. That is why we need to give them an opportunity to get away from that environment, and if you do not take that opportunity, the hammer must of course fall. Does this require that there are adults around the young people who are able to deal with that issue? Of course it does.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209155817	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209155819	But if the government does not make sure that there are enough expulsions and if the government does not now ensure that there is a low criminal low age, then you put in very, very early, and that is how you get past this Youth Crimes Board, then that is what I am asking Mr. Jeppe Bruus: What is it that gets Mr. Jeppe Bruus to believe that with those over in the municipality or region who are not covered by an education that is not trained in specially dealing with young criminals and gang criminals because it doesn't exist, there is no such education then everything is saved, so is everything good? That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209155855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209155857	All the children and young people who are today between 10-11 years and up to 20 years of age were born and raised, while the Danish People's Party had power in this country. These are the ones we have to deal with now. We are happy to do so, we are proud to do so, and we are happy to do so with the Folketing. However, having to be accused of the fact that children have grown up on our watch and that we have failed is, after all, not enough. After all, it is children who have grown up in this country and who, of course, we have a joint responsibility to correct them. And there is nothing in what we have put forward that indicates that we should not be ready for both the hard and the soft means.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209155932	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209155958	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for setting the agenda for this question debate, namely an explanation of government policy in relation to juvenile delinquency, radicalisation and gang crime. These are important issues; there is no doubt about that at all. It can be said that today's debate can properly be divided into prevention and consequences. An important issue in relation to prevention if we take it first is at least the SSP work that is going on around police circles and municipalities, and it is also the related parental conversations. We're gonna get the near police now. The near police were not a flower that grew in the left's garden, because as a starting point it closes and turns off at 1 p.m. On the other hand, in relation to this debate, I have to say that the near police can have a good and active role here in relation to prevention, in relation to being able to get hold of young people on the wrong road in time. I have also noticed that there will be more police in the heavily burdened residential areas. I think that's also important, just as the police intelligence service makes worried conversations around where you get wind that something could be coming up. It is clear that what the Danish People's Party has also mentioned requires educators, social workers, police officers and the like in close cooperation. I also believe that this is happening today. It was a little about the very part we could call prevention. The second part is, of course, the consequences, and I do not think that we are on the sidelines today either. We established a Youth Crime Board, and I must say here that I remember as clearly as Mr. Peter Skaarup our trip to Gellerup. It made a tremendous impression on me to see how early young people can go completely astray. We're talking about 14-year-olds, 13-year-olds, 12-year-olds with a sin register that you think is a lie. So among other things... Against this background, it was a good idea to set up the Youth Crime Board. We already have. By 2020, the Youth Crimes Board had 1,004 cases and decided on 881 cases with the sanctions now available to it. We need to evaluate whether something can be done better there. There are also measures in other areas. We are in the process of amending rental legislation in the direction that leases can be terminated if there is serious crime from a member of the household. We have addressed other issues: driving madness, confiscating vehicles, fireworks, bans on residence and, above all, the gang packages that have been carried out. These are gang packages that mean that every third rocker today is in prison. One thing, however, is punishment, and another is punishment. I am therefore pleased that the proposal for adoption, which has been read out by the Social Democrat rapporteur and which, incidentally, is supported by the Liberal Group, also focuses on the extent to which the penalties imposed are reasonably used. This is important, and we will deal with this in the Folketing when we discuss these issues. We must always keep in mind what the normal punishment is. It is not so important what the penalty is, because the courts never come near the maximum here. Many offences are fined, and in this connection I would like to mention that I think we have a problem there. If a fine is to have a preventive effect, it must be felt by the person who receives the fine, and there is at least my experience that recovery is going very, very badly. In that case, more consideration could be given to making use of the rules on administrative penalties laid down in the legislation. As I said earlier, I can say in general terms that there is a proposal for the adoption of the Social Democrat Party, drawn up in cooperation with the Left, and we fully agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209160442	We thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and this is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209160500	Thank you for the floor. According to the Ministry of Justice's Research Office, the number of suspicions or charges from 2006 to 2019 against 10-17 year olds for criminal offences is more than halved, while a small increase occurs again from 2016 to 2019. So it can be said that overall, the trend is good compared to 2006, and the decline has been greatest for young people under the age of low age. The figures show, overall, that we have succeeded in the youth crime effort. This does not necessarily mean that there is nothing more we can do. The fall in crime is greatest for young people under the age of 15, and on that basis one might well wonder why a majority has chosen to create a Youth Crime Board, which means that young people as young as ten years of age will enter a trial-like system. In May last year, I had both the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Social Affairs in consultation on the Youth Crime Board. The reason was that we now had the evaluations from the two largest municipalities, Aarhus and Copenhagen, which have had the majority of young people through the new system, and so the problems keep in line. I think it is going too far to talk about them here, but I am not saying too much if the conclusion is that young people with disability are the ones who mark matters in the Youth Crime Board. They are the ones who have adhd, mental illness, retardment or other challenges. They are therefore there because of the challenges they face. I tried, in consultation, to get the Minister to exempt children and young people from disability. I also think that we should be able to understand the process we are going through if we are to have some sort of level of reflection on what happened. There are also a great many problems with legal certainty. We also unveiled them in the consultation itself, so I will not hide the fact that I want to get rid of the Youth Crime Board. I think it's an assault on children, and it should be dropped. I am aware that a majority would like to maintain it, and I think the second best thing is that we can look at exempting these children with disability. The good question is: what are we going to do? First of all, I would like to see a system of sanctions that had been carried more by the thoughts of the right to redress, which is based on the fact that the victim and the perpetrator meet. It exists in Northern Ireland, and it exists in New Zealand. It is the case that young people rarely jump out as hardcore criminals when they are 13 years old. There has often been a very long process of crime before you end up in the really hard crime. Often they start with vandalism and raps. This right is based on understanding that it happened to someone else, and we have a comprehensive and documented knowledge that it actually has a preventive effect. The fact that you are being held accountable to the person you have violated works and creates understanding that there was another person here who was injured, or here there was another person who might have spent a lot of working hours earning money for a car that is important for getting to work, and then the young person has destroyed it with vandalism. Then you can't hide. Then you have to answer directly. I think it might have been interesting to test that model also in Denmark. At least in relation to the first-time criminals, it makes a great deal of sense. This system of sanctions also means that young people must help to restore the damage, and there can be many different ways of doing so. Then I think we need to gear the system that meets the young people who are on the wrong track better. That is why it was important for the SF to have something inserted into the police settlement that we should have an SSP law, that is to say to have it investigated. Because today there is no requirement for what municipalities and police are delivering into that cooperation, and when the crisis scratches, it becomes a place that is easy to save. It was also important to provide training for the local police officers, who are, of course, the brand-new venture. I think that's important if we're gonna get better at this. Then we need to help the families more. I have met with families of young criminals, including young gangs, and listening to their stories is just so depressing. They have been met by systems that have not heard their cry for help. They really want to help their sons, but they just didn't get the support of the authorities that they needed. Almost above all, I would say, their children had psychiatric problems or disability problems, and I think that many of them need lifelong support if they are not to get into all sorts of things. I also think it is important that we ensure that social workers do not have too many cases and that there is an economy for the right effort from the start, so that we do not always try the cheapest and the least effective first. We know that the early effort is moving. And when the Youth Commission in 2008 overtook the reasons why young people became criminals, there were many different points to be pointed out. But the surprising thing was that what they all had in common was poor school experience. So we must ensure that children and young people have good school experience because it is one of the most preventive. I can see that my speaking time is running out. I actually had more on the program. It's hard when you're very involved in a case. So I will read out a text for adoption on behalf of the SF, Radicals and Enhedslisten, and it reads as follows: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament wants to combat juvenile crime and it is important to be better at preventing religious radicalisation and gang crime. The Danish Parliament stresses that effective action requires strong cooperation between the authorities. This requires, among other things, that: a SSP law and better training of the near police officers responsible for the effort. The Danish Parliament notes that since 2006 juvenile delinquency has been halved and that the decline has been highest among young people under the age of low age. The Danish Parliament therefore wishes to abolish the Youth Crimes Board. At the same time, the Folketing recognises that there must be a noticeable consequence for those who commit crime. Parliament calls on the government to increase its focus on preventing juvenile delinquency with new efforts. • V 71).
ParlaMint-DK_20210209161137	Thank you. A proposal for adoption has now been read out and will be included in the further examination of the proposal. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209161150	Thank you, Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt, for the rapporteur's speech. When the three parties that come up with a proposal for adoption here speak a lot about preventing juvenile delinquency in the proposal for adoption, I would like to ask: has it not struck Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt when you look at whether there are trained people in the regions and in the municipalities who can handle this task that the educated people have not really received training in combating juvenile delinquency? Didn't it beat the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209161225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209161228	Well, it kind of has. And that was also why SF was particularly concerned about securing training in prevention, for example. for the near police officers who will be the crunch of SSP cooperation in the future. It is very important that they know what they are dealing with. But I kind of share the Danish People's Party's desire for more education. I have also been advocating for many years that we should have a special crime prevention line at the police. But Mr. Peter Skaarup has a point in that there are lots of other professionals, that is, social workers, educators and others who could profit from the fact that we had a special prevention targeted these challenges. So SF would like to thank the Danish People's Party for having that focus, and I am sure that we can find common ground on that very idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209161320	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209161321	Then I would like to thank SF for thanking DF for having that position. But in addition to these thanksgivings, it may also be important to look at exactly what we do in the future. Because there has been a lot of focus on police, also in relation to the Youth Crime Board, and there we have so different views. However, it can be isolated and said that there is at least an important task to ensure that there is a fairly uniform course on the part of the trained staff in relation to the young criminals. So how does SF think we should get on with it? For now SF says you agree, and DF says so, but I can like listen to the government, that there you think everything is good more or less. How do we move on?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209161413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209161414	Well, in the SF we are ready to make a report, but I am aware that there will not be much of that if there is not a majority. I have been visiting the SSP Team Vejle just before the police negotiations, and they have actually themselves made an education that is targeted at their primary schools and where they have had 500 teachers through this course. And that's because their point is that you have to be able to learn self-control at a very early age; that's what makes you, for example. Don't steal anything. And if you don't have that self-control, it goes wrong. I think that these are really exciting thoughts, and I think that we can use those thoughts as a food line for a broader view of the whole educational system. But how exactly we move on here today, I cannot quite see for myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209161501	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209161503	Thank you. Does the SF and the rapporteur believe that foreign policy is important for the proportion of gang criminals in Denmark, for the amount of religious radicalisation in Denmark and for the challenges we are discussing right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209161523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209161523-2	I think I need to define what foreign policy is in this respect, i.e. what it is in parts of foreign policy that Mrs Pernille Vermund believes has influence. I think that is a prerequisite for my reply. Otherwise it is a very broad question, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209161541	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209161542	I am thinking quite clearly: when a very large proportion of gang criminals have a non-western background, and when a very large proportion of those who commit violence and who are religiously radicalised, come from or originate in Muslim countries, it is obvious to me that the two things are connected. And there I can be worried when I hear not only from the left but also from the DF that you now believe that you can solve this with more social educators, more SSP work and more of everything that we have known for years has not worked, rather than doing what is right and necessary, namely closing the gap, stopping more people coming here and ensuring that those who are here and who commit crime go out consistently and after the first sentence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209161626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209161626-2	Well, I think I just have to disagree with Mrs Pernille Vermund. I agree more with the Danish People's Party that we need to give priority to preventive work. This is absolutely crucial if we are to have the food chain stopped for the gangs. And we in the Folketing have soon tightened the penalty screw for virtually everything, and just a little helps it. I think we need to look at other initiatives if we are to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209161655	Then there are no more questions. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, we're gonna have to get the disk off here. Thank you. It's not easy to remember all that despriting. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go. And that's from the Radicals, I have to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209161724	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for calling the question on juvenile delinquency. Kids have to play, not sit behind bars. The basic intention, I think, is genuinely shared by all of us, and let us first of all welcome it. But the question is, how do we get there? Are we doing this by bringing children down to 12 years of age for a judge on a Youth Crime Board with 10-12 adults around him? Have you read the appendices? have we heard stories about may be the beginning of such a meeting, and there I think children just get more out of reading Harry Potter than reading psychiatric explanations about themselves. Many people in favour of the Youth Crime Board also suffer from a mental disability, from disability. First of all, they need help. Their impairments are not remedied by a penalty. They have plenty of challenges in life. That is why the Radical Left does not believe that the Youth Crime Board is going to solve anything. Children must first of all meet with educational efforts, because if crime occurs once, there is a greater risk that it will happen again. And if it happens when you're young, you can end up in that racetrack. That path must be stopped, and rehabilitation is absolutely essential. We can also look at where juvenile delinquency is increasing, in other words where juvenile delinquency is increasing. This applies in particular to digital abuses among young people; it bons out completely. There we are pleased that in the police agreement we have taken the first steps to draw attention to this, but we are far from achieving it. The Radical Left is also pleased that the police agreement has succeeded in obtaining a special guarantee of police presence in youth education and schools where drugs are sold, because there must be zero tolerance to this, but it is also a good prevention element for juvenile crime, because we know that if drugs are taken, there is also a greater risk of ending up in crime. At the same time, it weakens gang recruitment opportunities in youth environments. We are also pleased that the SSP has been highlighted in the police agreement, and we are also aware that some of what is also seriously preventing crime among young people are housing social interventions that succeed in many places around the various municipalities, which are doing an enormously good job and where crime is falling and where a great deal of success is being made. That is what we hope the new local police stations will be able to support. So we go constructively into the work to prevent juvenile delinquency. It is absolutely essential that they face a strong future with a teacher in their hands and not a cop or prison staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209162034	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no questions. Then we welcome Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209162056	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for calling this debate so that we can once again have a discussion on how to deal with youth crime problems in Denmark. Fortunately, it goes the right way when we look at juvenile delinquency. It's falling. And that would suggest that there are some of the things that we are doing today that actually work. When you look at last year's report by the Ministry of Justice on the development of juvenile delinquency, you can read that in the period from 2006 to 2019 there has been a fall of 50 per cent. in criminal proceedings. That is a good thing, but it is also a number of figures that confirm that we are not in the end, and I think it is very sensible that we should discuss how to eliminate juvenile crime, so that no one ends up in a criminal career. For the Enhedslisten, that debate certainly did not end with the introduction of the Youth Crimes Board, which we in the Enhedslisten voted against and still believe is not part of the solution. That is why we think it is appropriate to discuss it. There may be many reasons why you as a young person end up in a criminal career. One of the things that is unfortunately very often true is that it is social conditions that make you end up committing crime. In fact, inequality is a very big factor, and it is impressive that we have managed to reduce crime while the inequality has increased. I think that in itself is a little interesting. But if you come from a resourceless family, if your parents are at risk and have a low income or suffer from physical or mental illness, the likelihood that you end up in juvenile delinquency is only greater. The first step in preventing juvenile delinquency is therefore to eliminate some of the major inequalities that exist in our societies. We cannot have children and young people growing up below the poverty line, just as we must be ready to support those families who are having a hard time. We want to avoid people becoming criminals. That is what we often discuss in here: how do we best avoid prevention, with punishment or with a combination of the two things? Prevention is for us in the Enhedslisten to see a very large part of the key, and when we discuss juvenile crime, we often talk about punishment, and that is also what our system is built around. I think it is time we talked much more about prevention and not just talk about it, but also about it. There are some things that we know work today. It works if we involve the schools. It works if we ensure that there are good leisure opportunities where you can be young. No matter where you live in the country, it must be possible to go to a youth club or go to football or go to scouts or whatever it may be that can give you another strong community. In the Enhedslisten we also believe that we have to build our system around restorative law; that is, if a young person smashes a window in a residential area, then the young person must, in a sense, help to collect money for a new window to come in and help put it in, so that you are confronted with your crime. We in the Enhedslisten think that we should look at this much more, just as we also think that we should be better at supporting that for young people it will be easier to get a leisure job or an internship if they go to vocational training and have to interrupt their training because they cannot get an internship. That is where we have to take action. So there are many places where we can prevent and intervene here, and I believe, as I said, that a large part of the key to ensuring that juvenile delinquency continues to fall is that we prevent better and that we put into the communities where other young people come, in other words at school and at the leisure club. So we see this in the Enhedslisten as a major part of the solution, and we can therefore support the proposal for adoption that Mrs Karina Lorentzen read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209162518	Thank you, and there's a question. Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209162523	Thank you, and thank you to Rosa Lund, for your speech here in the debate. I think there are some real things in what Mrs Rosa Lund says, but I also think there are some wrong ones. Well, I hear that because the juvenile delinquency is falling overall, Mrs. Rosa Lund doesn't think we should do anything. That's how I hear a little what Mrs. Rosa Lund says. So, on the other hand, if juvenile delinquency is now increasing, do we have to do something, or what? Well, what's that connection? Isn't it just wrong what's going on? And when we see a salutation, what else we do, should we not do everything we can to help the victims who come from this? Let me just remind you of the case that has been handed down today, where two groups of young people have been fighting, and where it ends up with a killing and disastrous consequences for the entire group of young, typically immigrant boys, whom we are talking about here. After all, what is going on in some of these young environments is violent, and I would just like to have Enhedslisten dealt with what we do in relation to them from time to time. For example, is it... expulsions? I don't think I'll ever hear of that from Enhedslisten. But isn't it just necessary that we turn off the automatic pilot at times, even as a party, and say: 'Well, there really must be burning down here?'
ParlaMint-DK_20210209162649	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209162650	I very much agree that we should turn off the automatic pilot, Mr. President. Peter Skaarup. And now it is not the case that I am the one who says that juvenile delinquency has fallen. It's a report from the Ministry of Justice, and I don't think they over there in the Ministry see the Enhedslisten and the Ministry of Justice as the same unit. Nor do I think it is quite right that I say that we should not do anything because juvenile delinquency is decreasing. In fact, I think I made a lot of suggestions about things that we are not doing today and that we can do better, and that is among other things. to ensure good communities and good frameworks where the young people are otherwise, when they are not at home and when they are not in the environments where crime occurs. I also agree that there has been an outburst. Well, we see an increase in crime among young people online, that is, sharing of insulting images. I think this really is a very serious youth crime problem. Unfortunately, this is also happening among adults, but it is especially happening among young people. And I think that should actually be part of this debate: how are we going to get rid of it? The Youth Crime Board has certainly not prevented this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209162750	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209162751	I actually think that Mrs Rosa Lund has a little answer here, because sometimes it is necessary to think beyond whether these figures are a little bit falling or a little bit increasing. For there may be many other things behind which we do not see; there may be some that, for example: Don't dare report it. It may be a betrayal that makes the crime we see much worse than it was in the past. There may be the whole network crime where our police, and I think we agree on this, are not very well trained to deal with the part of the crime picture where some people sit at home on the couch and do the crime. So it's really just to say, shouldn't we sometimes just put those numbers aside and ask what's really the right thing to do here? And I asked Mrs Rosa Lund whether expulsions of people who just don't bother Denmark and who keep doing crime are not one of the answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209162842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209162842-2	Now it is the case that we cannot expel Danish citizens. I understand if the Danish People's Party wants only foreign citizens to commit crime or commit juvenile crime in Denmark. I'm afraid that's just not the reality. That's one thing. The second point is that, when it comes to thinking out of the box, I also said in my speech, and I would like to insist that we should focus much more on restoring law. Well, the way we have the Youth Crime Board today, I think I'm mistaken. I think it would be much better if you said: you have painted graffiti in a residential area, now you yourself have to remove it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209162916	Then we say thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund and we just need to get the alcohol off, as usual. And then we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Naser Khader, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209162941	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for asking this important question. We must do everything possible to prevent young people from embarking on a criminal career. First of all, for the sake of young people themselves, but also for the sake of society. We all have an interest in our young people not ending up on the wrong side of the law. We must ensure that the criminal prevention of young people is adequate. We do, among other things. by meeting our young people with demands and expectations that they comply with the law. We do too many young people a disservice by not making demands on them. We owe it to our future generations to do better. Too many young people still end up in crime, even hard-boiled crime, which is why I am glad that this question has opened up this important debate. If things go wrong for some of our young people, it is important that they are met with a loving consequence from society. We owe it to our young people who commit crime to draw a clear but well-meaning and loving line into the sand. The responsibility for educating our young people rests very much with parents, but in those cases where things have gone wrong, society must step in and give a boost in the right direction. Therefore, it has also been a desire of Conservatives that we have an authority to deal with cases of juvenile delinquency. It's gotten off to a good start. We have received the Youth Crimes Board, which will help prevent juvenile delinquency by identifying and targeting individual efforts for children and young people at risk of crime. They have started, but we do not think that the figures that come from the list are satisfactory. There are too few immediate sanctions; in our view, that is too little. And the sanctions that are being applied are more the soft parts: what has to do with improvement processes. We believe that a little more attention should be paid to those who are immediately sanctioned, especially in relation to perilous crime. In other words, it is not for the Youth Crime Board to be abolished, but for it to be called upon to carry out even more immediate sanctions. We in the Conservative People's Party are painfully aware that, unfortunately, there are deep criminal gang members who use young people to commit crime, such as scouts in the case of hashish sales in the affected areas. My contempt for those people is great, and so is the people who radicalise our young people. They also exist, and we must also target them with determination. We must take tough action against the criminals who are so stunned that they are willing to potentially destroy a young person's life. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party are looking forward to following the government's efforts in this area, continuing the efforts of the previous government. And among other things... That is why we are also in the government's proposal for adoption today, tabled by both the government and the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209163325	We thank the rapporteur. There's no question, but there's just a liquor cloth waiting. And then it is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209163351	Thank you. We have all heard of the bestial atrocities committed by Muslims in the Middle East against each other. Some of us have read up on the origins, development and culture of Islam and have been confirmed: Islam, as an ideology, is permeated by violence. The religious penal code, Sharia, has escaped the development of Western civilization and is still operating away with executions, hand-slashing and stoning of women. Muslims in Denmark, who put Islamic values above Danish values, live by standards of eye for eye and tooth for tooth, ultimate concepts of honour and revenge as justice. As a result, violence becomes the most obvious and most often used means of resolving conflicts. One in four registered gang members in Denmark has a non-western background, and we know from the annual horror releases from Statistics Denmark that descendants from Muslim countries are more often convicted of criminal offences than the rest of the population. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration Mattias Tesfaye recently stated that 15 per cent of the population of the country had been affected. children who grow up in immigrant families are brought up with violence. And we know from the research that on average a 5-year-old child of non-western immigrants has developed less empathy, is worse at working together and has more difficulty expressing her feelings than a 3-year-old child of Danish parents. The government must be commended for speaking openly about the problem. This is the first step towards ending the Islamic ideology behind the figures. Of course, violence in education rubs off on adulthood: as long as violence is accepted as an ideology in Muslim parallel societies, we will have to live with immigrant violence, radicalisation and gang crime. Shooting in the streets has become commonplace. The immigrant gangs have made sure that too many have become accustomed to it. Assaults and robbery by Muslims against unspeakable citizens in nightlife and public transport can be read about in local newspapers every day. The big media are gradually ignoring it. A visit to a women's crisis centre will show in many places that half or more of women are immigrant women, although they are only under 10%. of the female population. That is how it will be in a culture that raises violence, and culture is the Islamic one. It needs to be pushed back. Islam can and must never be integrated into Danish society. Probably so many educators, social workers and SSP employees cannot change violence as an ideology in Muslim parallel societies. The parents who raise their children with violence and for a life carried by violence should not be in Denmark at all. Therefore, as a first response to today's question debate on juvenile delinquency, religious radicalisation and gang crime, the government should ensure that the asylum freeze promised by the Social Democratic Party since 2018 is implemented. Stop the damage. This is the top of the first page of the first aid book. Today we can expel foreigners from violent crime. This is all too rare, however. This should be consistent and after the first sentence, and, of course, for young foreigners over the low age of criminality, gang crime and religious radicalisation, such as joining Islamic state or similar, should lead to expulsion. Youth crime over the last 10 years has been decreasing, both for young people under and above the age of crime. And if the figures do not cover fewer notifications due to fear or fewer sentences due to long court proceedings, that is a good development. However, if we are to have a real fight with gang crime, seduction and religious radicalisation, immigration policy is the most important and most powerful tool. New citizens would have liked to have been in the text of the majority vote and added an additional sentence which is very important to us, but that was not possible. Therefore, on behalf of New Citizens, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Parliament wants to combat juvenile delinquency, including religious radicalisation and gang crime. In this context, the Folketing stresses the importance of breaking the food chain to the gangs and preventing religious radicalisation. The Danish Parliament notes that preventive work across ministries and authorities to prevent young people from committing crime as soon as possible is essential for combating juvenile crime. At the same time, the Folketing recognises that there must be an appreciable consequence for those who, despite the preventive work of the authorities, choose the criminal course and, in this context, have among other things. focus on the extent to which the penalties imposed are reasonably used. Parliament calls on the government to continue to work to combat juvenile delinquency with both preventive measures and measures that ensure a noticeable impact on young people, such as: commit gang-related crime. The Folketing wants young foreigners' gang crimes and religious radicalisation, such as by joining the Islamic State, to lead to expulsion for people over the age of crime. • V 72) This also includes the part that was not available in the majority's adoption text.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209163922	Thank you. A proposal for adoption has now been tabled, which will form part of the further examination of the question. There are no questions, so we thank the rapporteur and go to the Minister for Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209163947	Thank you for the debate. Let me start with the trivial observation, which I think is something that everyone really knows well, but which is of course important for the context of the debate here, namely that by far, the vast majority of young people in Denmark behave properly, do not get at odds with the law, take care of their things, work well in our society and do what is expected of them. On top of that, there is a clear tendency for juvenile delinquency to decline broadly. Maybe a polarization is really going on in these years. Well, the big group of young people are playing handball... they don't do that right now. And they're getting drunk this weekend. I know from home that they're gonna be okay anyway, despite the restrictions. And then there is a small group that is marginalised, ends up outside the community, goes the wrong way, comes to commit crime, never really gets an education and does not get a place in the labour market. And there's just to prevent the issues that I'm about to get a clear ethnic bias compared to this group. There are things we have not succeeded in in our society, not least on the integration side. We have good efforts in relation to the preventive part. We have, as has been mentioned, the SSP interventions, which are essential in terms of spotting these young people and getting hold of them and ensuring that they are turned the right way. There is also mention of the housing social interventions • important, important. In connection with our police agreement, it has also been mentioned here that we are now getting 20 new local police stations, and we are getting people further into the country, i.e. police officers who can help to do this outreach work. It has also been mentioned that before my time it has been done here with 25 employees for preventive work in the vulnerable residential areas, and that is something that is also important. A lot of work is being done. Is that okay? Are we gonna make it all the way around? No, we don't. But good results come from the work being done. On the other hand, this means that we also need to be consistent with those who do not want to, who challenge our society and who challenge the way we can function and who create insecurity, commit violence, pressure others. After all, they are the ones who get caught up in driving madness with indifference to other people and people's lives and indifference to social relations. So this is one of the things that was also part of our negotiations on the multiannual agreement, that is to say, how we not only protect ourselves against this criminal behaviour, but how we really ensure that we behave in such a way within the social framework that applies. I think that today's debate has been good in the sense that, in our different starting points and in our different parties, we all attach importance to different elements. There is also a recognition that there is much that is being done well, but that there are also things that we need to do better. So I thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209164321	There is one question from Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209164322	Thank you. In the past, this was the case, and I do not need to lecture the Minister on the fact that the area of aliens and integration was under the Ministry of Justice's authority. Had it not been for Islam and migration from Muslim countries, it would probably still be so. Somehow there was good reasoning in it, and perhaps there would still be good reasoning in it, because we are dealing here with an area where justice policy and immigration and integration policy are quite closely linked, especially at a time when there is not a great deal of crime in society. This brings me to the question which I put to the rapporteur of the Minister's party earlier and which I would also have put to the DF, but without success when I was not given the floor, namely: does the government really believe that with social educators, social workers and SSP workers Islam can be taken out of Muslim families? If you think that you can eliminate the readiness to violence, which is obviously there, you recognise that 15%. Of these children growing up with domestic violence, and you know the research results, which show that children as five years old have empathy at the level of a three-year-old Danish child, and do you think that this is something you can just change with a little social engineering, or do you not really mean what I heard the Minister of Justice say a little in his first answer, namely that if we do not get control of foreign policy, if we do not ensure that people do not come here with that culture, and if we do not ensure that those who commit the crimes go out, will this be a persistent problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209164508	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209164509	No, I certainly do not believe that the integration problem we have can be solved with the soft effort alone, and I do not believe that the problem we have with crime can be solved with the soft effort alone. I also thought I was trying to say that this will have to go on two legs: on the one hand, the soft effort and, on the other, the more consistent effort. On the other hand, I also believe that it is a long, tough and difficult move that it is possible in a society like the Danish to make cultural changes that take place widely. However, I fully recognise that we have a huge challenge here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209164549	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209164551	I appreciate the recognition of the challenge, but I think it may still be a little naive to keep believing that this can be done. If we had now been the only country that had had these problems, then I could understand it; if one could have found just one other country that had broken the code, then I could understand it; or if we could have seen that descendants of immigrants from Muslim countries were less criminal than their parents, then perhaps one could also see a development that went in a positive direction, but we see all the opposite. And that is why it is so crucial to stop the damage and ensure that those who are here and who do not comply with our legislation and cannot support themselves are expelled.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209164626	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209164626-2	I very, very much agree that it is uphill. On the other hand, I think that I too, and here I am a little out of the way, because I am the Minister of Justice and not the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration, but now I am still trying, and if I am wrong then I regret and apologize on behalf of my party, the government and all sorts of others that, if we look back over the period, there is really a difference and that something positive has happened if we, for example, look back over the period. Look at the girls compared to the boys. In other words, it must be said that, as far as girls are concerned, we have succeeded better in freeing ourselves from crime, but also in taking education and at least a little along the way to choosing the Danish standards, and that gives us hope.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209164712	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209164714	Thank you for the Minister for Justice's concluding remarks regarding today's debate. I think we have had an excellent debate. On the other hand, I do not think that this is the last debate we are having on this issue either (the Minister of Justice, I do not think so) because there are many things in it. One is that we in the Danish People's Party think there is no consistency. There is a lack of consistency when it is today that we see judgments given against a number of young immigrant boys who, for many, are merely given a warning of expulsion, even though they have committed very serious crimes. Can the Minister for Justice not agree with the frustration that many Danes have to face when you see that it is a warning of expulsion without expulsion in such cases? That's one thing. The second is: does the Minister of Justice agree that we have a challenge when you can have a young person who passes the Youth Crime Board and who is being sent to the municipality, where there are not people who are adequately trained to take care of them and get them onto the right track?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209164823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209164824	The last thing first: yes, I always think that if we are to be able to benefit from the efforts being made by the Youth Crime Board, it is about the follow-up that will then also be there and, incidentally, it is the municipality's obligation to ensure. As far as the second point is concerned, I am not going to comment on the specific case, but I would just like to say that it is the government's view that foreigners should be expelled under Articles 22 to 24 of the alien law, unless it is certainly contrary to Denmark's international or EU legal obligations, which are also international. And it is the government's view that criminal foreigners should be expelled as far as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209164908	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209164909	I actually sense that we are in agreement so far that it sends a dampening signal in relation to some of the groups if there is a expulsion, in other words some of the groups involved in gangs • those who commit crime. If we agree on this, is it not too bad and too poor that we in the Danish Parliament have a majority, evidently, who will live with the situation that the people in question will not be expelled anyway, even if they are doing really serious crime, because of some obsolete conventions that date back from the time immediately after the Second World War? In other words, a completely different time determines that today we cannot do the right thing independently. Doesn't the Minister of Justice see the same thing I do: that here is a huge problem? And what will the government do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209164958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209164958-2	But it's kind of the one that says if the glass is half-filled or if the glass is half-empty. Because I think we can also meet about another common recognition, namely that there is going to be expulsion to a greater extent now than there was in the past, just because it has been said: we have to go to the steel, and we have to use the tools that actually exist to carry out expulsion, that is to say, this associated stuff, etc., so that we can lift the burden of proof and so that we can actually get people expelled when they commit crime in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209165029	Then we say thank you to the Minister for Justice, and then it's for a close, sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209165048	Thank you. And I thank you for one, I think, fine debate. There have been plenty of gold grains and lots of things that we have been able to agree on, but also things on which we have disagreed. And one of the things that some people have said is that juvenile delinquency has generally fallen and that we may not have to be so worried. I just have to say that if you look at the figures, that is not necessarily the case. It is true that for some groups there is a fall, but for other groups there is an increase, and for some groups, especially young people, there is, of course, an increase in the severity of crime, the raison d'être. So the picture is very different. And it is also a question of people who do not dare to report cases, and that is also important for the figures. It is also a question of new cybercrime, social media crime, which is not being reported on a very large scale and is not being investigated on a very large scale, and that means that there are some shadow figures, some dark figures here, which mean that what we talk a lot about from some facts is not necessarily based on the right facts. There may be shadow numbers we don't know. Having said that, I think there are two leads in this debate which are important to pursue. One is that we in the Danish People's Party want to see tough consequences for those who do not follow the rules of the game in our society. If you're not prepared for it, and if you're not a Danish citizen, then out of the guard it's goodbye and thank you. So there is no point in having obsolete conventions mean that we cannot do the right thing. Most recently, a judgment has been passed on a case today; it is almost every day that judgments are handed down in our courts, and we see time and time again that there are conditional expulsions, that there are warnings of expulsions and again warnings of expulsions, but it is not necessarily a question of expulsions, and then it may not be worth so much, that is, if we can continue to receive warnings. In other words, as I know the rules of football, two yellow cards mean expulsion and not that you can get a yellow card and a yellow card and so on without expulsion. So I would like to see some harsh consequence on the part of the government, and if the conventions are what slow us down, we must put an end to the conventions. They were written right after World War II, where it was a completely different world picture. That is the one thing I think has come out of the debate, and it is something where we have to be tough; we have to ensure that the legal awareness is observed here when we work on things at Christiansborg, and it does not do enough on the part of the government today. The second is preventive work. When we talk about immigration policy and expulsions, we also have to recognise that those who are not expelled must make sure that the right track is made at an early stage. And that is where we have to say that education is lacking. There is a lack of coherence between municipalities, regions and states, ensuring that those who work with these children and young people during the age of crime know what they are dealing with. And some do the self-taught, amazing people. We all know them; we meet them when we visit institutions, both in our municipalities and our regions. But it is very much an individual thing that has driven them; it is not necessarily something that is based on equal education that everyone gets through. And there is a need for some good people to sit down and get a course done that means that our capacity and our coaches out locally are able to deal with the young criminals in a fairly equal way across the country. It is missing, and we need it. So the two points are what I am taking with me from today's debate, and I hope that the government will listen to what is being said here in the Folketing. Different parties say different things, but the task is important. The task must be solved, we must be united in it and we must carry out something that works.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209165457	There is a question from Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209165459	Thank you. I am actually pleased that the rapporteur for the proposers mentions two things that need to be taken out of the debate. For I must admit that when I got DF's proposal for adoption, I thought: this cannot be from DF. In other words, we have a question debate on juvenile delinquency, religious radicalisation and gang crime, and then the proposal for adoption is exclusively about extra education in the field of pedagogic education and training for social counsellors, modules in diploma education, etc. I don't see anything about foreign policy in this. It's not that I even doubt what DF means, but where did it go? I agree that we have only a few words in these texts for adoption, but I think that we could have come together on a text for adoption if foreign policy had, as it were, been part of the text for adoption. So can the rapporteur enrich me with an insight into what has happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209165601	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209165601-2	Yes, I now sent the proposal for adoption to the rapporteurs this morning, and I was very prepared to talk to those who had to come back with good suggestions and ideas, and then we could have looked at it a little more closely. In any case, I think that the proposal for adoption that we have here is on two legs. I would also like to say that foreign policy is important. Exiles are important, and I have also spoken in favour of this in the Chamber today, but we must also recognise that when it comes to young criminals, there are also young criminals who are not immigrants. There are also young criminals who are not foreigners and there are criminals who are immigrants and foreigners who do not have to be expelled or who at least end up not being expelled. So sometimes we in the Folketing have to look at what it would be like if we got our way 100 per cent. and all those who commit crime, who are not Danish citizens, were expelled or if we got our will 50%. and not all foreigners who commit crime ended up being expelled. That is why we in the Folketing sometimes have to use tools that work in the real world. We have tried to offer that, but we are completely open to it if, as I heard during the debate, the New Civil or SF, or the Socialists, have some good ideas on how to knit things together. The main thing is that something is happening on the two fronts that I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209165727	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209165729	I think it's quite fine to try to open up to what others might think. What just puzzles me is that foreign policy does not appear at all to indicate that there is nothing at all about the expulsion of criminals, that it is not, as it were, evident in the text of the adoption that a quarter of the gang criminals in Denmark have a non-western background. This has a huge deal to do with foreign policy. I just have to ask questions about it, because I thought really well when I got the proposal that it was simply a lie. And then there was a text adopted by a majority, which is even more precise in this respect. Then I thought it had to be a mistake and that I had to miss something, but it wasn't. Next time I think we might need better time together to get it worked right together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209165815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209165815-2	A little more time together will be fine. I'm always in on that. And then I would just like to say that it is important that we in the Danish Parliament find something that works. This is both in relation to foreign policy and to preventive work in relation to young criminals. That is why I would just like to say that I see such a debate as rather frustrating because we have some parties and I think that Mrs Pernille Vermund agrees with that which is stuck in those toad-old conventions that were written right after the Second World War. And then we stand here and rip our own hair a little over the fact that there are warnings of expulsion, but that there is never going to be expulsion. It's just that there's got to be some hard justice. It is also part of the proposal for adoption. We have to look at it. We cannot live with the fact that it is concrete conventions written right after World War II that decide whether we can do the right thing here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209165914	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. I'm gonna have to get a little booze. As no one else has been asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed amendments will, as I said, be postponed until further notice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209165946	The debate is open. I should like to know if anyone would like to speak on the first reading of the draft law. It doesn't look like it. Since no one has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209170041	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Culture, whom we need to get fully in place, so we are sure that the speech papers are also on the platform, and they are. Then go to the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209170102	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor. When we take a course at an evening school, play badminton in the local sports association or go to scouts, it helps shape our understanding of the world and also to form us as people. It is in the community that we are more than people who go to work, go to school, take an education, earn some money, live in certain places because that's where we gather, no matter who we are and where we come from. When you're on the football field, it doesn't matter what you do every day, how much money you make, whether you have a long education or a short education. What counts is your bet for the team, both on the field, in and around the tournament and in the locker room. Of course, the scout clubs, gymnastics associations, choirs, chess clubs, evening schools, amateur theater associations and all the other associations run by local fire-souls should not bother with unnecessary bureaucracy; they should of course focus on what happens when people meet where we become a team. We can quickly agree on that. That is why the essence of this matter is also of utmost importance to the government. We have been focusing on the area from the outset, which is why the area was also highlighted in the political understanding paper in the summer of 2019, where among other things. states that the government will dismantle bureaucratic burdens on society. But if it were easy, it would probably have been done already, including by previous governments. From the outset, we have focused on finding a way to solve the problems that are being brought forward time and time again. Together with associations' organisations, cultural life has been preparing a conference on the conditions of association which should have been held here last year, but which due to corona has now been programmed for spring 2021, and then political discussions will be convened on the basis of what will emerge from the conference. The conference must be across the various ministries, because the challenges faced by the associations here are precisely at the root of many different places in our legal complex. However, in addition to the overall approach, I would like to respond to the two parts presented in the motion for a resolution and to how the government works with it. The first part is, of course, the proposal that the government should examine during the current parliamentary year whether Denmark can apply the exceptions in the Personal Data Regulation to a greater extent, i.e. what is also known as the GDPR, in order to have it organized more for the benefit of the community. This study has already been initiated by the government, and during last year the Ministry of Justice has been investigating these various things and expects to be able to present the results by the end of the first half of 2021. So this part of the resolution is expected to be fulfilled; we are in the process. The second part of the proposal is that during the current parliamentary year, the government should make legislative proposals on a de minimis threshold which exempt associations with a limited economy from the money laundering rules. On 28 January 2021, I met with the Culture, Sport and People's Education rapporteurs, where the Ministry of Business and Industry, which is where this legislation belongs, examined the money laundering rules in relation to the resolution that is on today's agenda. Questions were asked and the answer was given, and I believe that the meeting also made clear the difficulties of fulfilling this wish, however much one might share the intentions in it. The White Wash Act is a directive-by-law implementation of the EU's 4th and 5th Money Laundering Directives, and behind the Laundering Act is a broad circle of parties: the Social Democracy, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, all of which have concluded the agreement to be a leader in the fight against money laundering. That is why it is no wonder that such a wide range of parties are behind it. After all, being a leader in combating money laundering is also about something that I believe we can all support: combating potential terrorist financing and combating financial crime. But if that price is that the associations are having a harder time, then we need to find out how we can tackle it. It is just difficult because the money laundering law means that all companies covered by the law, for example. banks, are required to implement the so-called customer knowledge procedures in relation to all their customers, including associations. As early as 2017, it was possible to cause problems for the associations, and therefore it was examined whether it was possible to exempt the associations from these requirements for customer knowledge procedures. However, the European Commission replied that it would not be in line with the directive to make exceptions for associations, not even for charitable associations. This means that it is not possible to exempt associations with a limited economy or otherwise introduce the de minimis threshold mentioned in the motion for a resolution without going against the EU's money laundering rules. It is therefore not possible for the government to put forward legislative proposals relating to that part of the resolution, however much we support the intention to make life easier for the associations. I hope that, as we have done for today's debate, even after today's debate, we will continue to seek dialogue in order to find a way to facilitate the lives of associations in relation to the money laundering rules. From my point of view, the arrow points to the banks. In relation to the practice of the banks, part of this issue can be resolved. In order to bring about these noticeable improvements for the associations, a bid could therefore be to focus all attention on the fast-working working working working group on money laundering rules and society, which is currently under start-up, managed and organised from the Ministry of Business, but of course also in close contact with the Ministry of Culture. It is a working group set up under Finans Danmark, so that they themselves have ownership of this issue. So it is they who can do something about it, but also with the participation of among others. PET, FSA, Ministry of Business and Culture and most importantly: several of the major associations in sport and public education. By this I mean that we have jointly put considerable political pressure in place so that this group can really put itself together, talk it through and talk it out in order to find solutions that will facilitate the life of the associations. That is my hope, and I am also confident that it will be reflected in the proposals that the working group will make, and they will have to be included during the second quarter of this year. When these proposals are available, the Minister for Economic Affairs and I will also convene the cultural, sports and public education rapporteurs and the business rapporteurs for a joint discussion of the working group's proposals. So something's gonna happen. There is a great deal of pressure on and there is a great deal of expectation for the working group to come up with solutions within the law, within the directive, which actually facilitates the life of the associations. I hope that all parties will support that. Although I can tell you that the government cannot support the motion for a resolution, I hope that, with my speech here, I have stressed that I would like to do so again, that we fully share the intention to work hard to ensure that the associations do what they do best and can spend their time and energy on it, that is to say to bring us together and teach us that we are a team. And when we're a team, we can more each, but of course also as a team. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209170943	Thank you. There are no questions, and we would like to thank the Minister for Culture, who has worked hard to get drunk. No, I'm sorry, could the Minister come back upstairs? There was a very delayed question from the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution here. I'm very sorry, Minister. Sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209171021	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for that fine speech. I am quite sure that the Folketing fully agrees that there is something we need to do here. The Minister himself mentions the associations, but there is also a very different group to which this also applies, and that is a group which I know the Minister as well. When the municipalities provide Section 18 funds to volunteers who want to bear social responsibility in the local area in which they want to be, they are awarded DKK 2,000. in § 18-funds and must pay 2,200 DKK. to get them. That does not make any sense, and that is why we must also remember to include the whole part. By the way, I am glad that the government has taken the good proposals of the Left into their understanding paper. I'm just sorry it had to be a year and a half before we really got to it. I think that there is also a task for the government to look into the way the FSA regulates and controls the whole market. I'm not sure it's all on the banks here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209171124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209171127	Thank you very much and thank you for the question. I agree that it has been frustrating that this should be going on for a while, but as Mr. Sten Knuth also knows, we all have, too, sir. Stén Knuth, was busy making sure that this association life survived the corona crisis at all before we could gather them together for this conference, which was actually scheduled for the autumn. In relation to the money laundering rules, I can't rule out any possibility that Mr. Sten Knuth has a point in relation to the fact that the FSA might also be able to help find this solution, but that is precisely the point we, as a government, have also taken into account by ensuring that this working group has both the participation of PET, i.e. those who can assess the potential problems, if this money has some other flows that are not good, for example. Terrorist funding, but also the FSA, is in place to clarify what it is that the associations are experiencing, what the banks are experiencing and what the various supervisory authorities see of problems, but of course can also help to find solutions. I hope so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209171238	Sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209171239	Thank you. I certainly hope that will happen. Because there's a Gordian knot in this because it's the banks that risk rating and fetching information from the associations. The risk assessment must be carried out on the basis of what PET has also assessed the world of association to be: high risk, which is why they have to bring in a great many papers, even though they may not have a wish to do so. And then there's the FSA, who's gonna come knocking the banks in the head if it's they're not gonna fulfill this. So there is a Gordian knot here that I think we should also look at legally, and I look forward to seeing the proposals coming from the working group that has just been set up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209171320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209171321	Thank you very much for acknowledging that this working group can be part of the solution. I just hope that we can agree to wait for that working group to work so that we can balance the concern to be a leader in combating money laundering, but at the same time also facilitate the conditions for our association life. That is the balance we must have. For both are incredibly important to all of us, and I think that this particular composition can help to find a good solution. So I look forward to that in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209171354	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten, who has also joined because of the President's goodwill towards late registration for questions. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209171405	There is no discussion with the President, but I would like to point out that I pressed myself in while the Minister stood on the floor. President It was after the Minister had gone down). No, it was while and by the way, I'm not discussing with the President. The reason why I have a question for the Minister is that when you take over a ministry, you go through, like all the drawers, and see what the old government leaves of good ideas. And there it was that time and again we were asking the previous government, the bourgeois government: what can you do about this problem? How do we avoid this huge trouble? I have a question here from 14 June 2018 from Rune Lund, where Rune Lund writes: Please explain how the work on banks' money laundering controls is progressing to ensure that the level of administrative burden is as small as possible for both the customer and the bank in the case of non-professional associations that do nothing that raises suspicions of money laundering and terrorist financing. I could mention a large number of other issues and debates in which we took it up with the bourgeois government. And then it is just that I want the Minister to reply to: what was in the drawers that the Minister could have used to prevent it from going as wrong as it has been and so the Minister has not listened to?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209171527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209171528	Thank you very much. First of all, I would just like to acknowledge that, in the paper of understanding, we took on the basis of this government the issue on which there has also been a wide-ranging debate in the previous government. But some of what I was at least presented with and I don't know if it's from the previous government or where it's come from, for example. this option to use digital solutions to solve this gordian node. It could, for example, be done. be increased use of this MitID, which is on the way, or the CVR register, so that banks' customer knowledge procedures simply become less cumbersome. Because, as I have been told, it should be such a place to enter all the information once and for all, and then the banks can retrieve the information from there, instead of going down again and again, as all of us association people have probably tried, to the bank with driving licences and health certificates, and whatever else had to be done. However, these are some of the proposals which this working group will also be looking at.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209171629	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209171632	What is the reason why they were not implemented under the previous government? I simply cannot understand that. Were we not interested in implementing it? In other words, why was it not presented under the previous government when, for several years, it was insisted, at least from parts of the opposition, that this was completely insane in relation to the small associations that would suffer under the regime of the Left and the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance? Why was it not implemented? Has the Minister got an impression of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209171709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209171710	No, I haven't. And I also said in my introduction that in the good civil service they are always diplomatic when they present these different solutions. So I don't know exactly where they come from... whether they've been presented by previous governments. But I would like to call on you to do so. Søren Søndergaard to perhaps put to other parties. In this government, from the time it was set up, we have had it as part of our basis in our understanding paper, and it was also something that we would very much have liked to have tackled a year ago if the Corona had not in fact put the living conditions of the whole of society under discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209171744	Then there are no more questions, so we thank the Minister for Culture and move on to the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kasper Sand Kjær, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209171806	Thank you for the floor and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising an important debate. The Danish society's life of association is a life-snare in our society. It creates community, it creates formation, democracy and spirit life for the whole of our society and for the individual. And the value of association is really invaluable. I myself, just as I am sure many of us in here today, have grown up as much in society as I have grown up in school, namely as active, as a member, as a participant, as a volunteer and as a leader. And before I had the pleasure of being a colleague with all of you in here, I had the pleasure of being chairman of the Danish Youth Council for 3 years and representing the Danish children's and youth associations and of seeing how much value was created, but also how it became increasingly difficult. For in all the years I have been active and leader in society, it has only moved one way: more rules have come, more paperwork has come and more administrative expenditure has come. That is precisely why, in order to reverse this trend, the government, together with the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten, has committed itself to abolishing the bureaucratic burdens on society. That is why, as the Minister explained, the government is also planning, together with the association, to hold a conference and to set in motion a process when the Corona situation permits, in order to bring challenges and solutions to the table. This also means that the Social Democrats fully agree with the intentions behind the motion for a resolution. It is a proposal which has two elements, the first of which is to examine whether and how Denmark can apply the exceptions in the Personal Data Regulation, i.e. the GDPR, for the benefit of association, and the second is to introduce a de minimis limit on the rules on money laundering. In relation to the first part of the proposal, that study has been initiated by the Ministry of Justice and is expected to be completed within this six-month period. Then there is the second part about de minimis limits for associations in relation to the money laundering rules, and we are, after all, a broad circle of parties, including many of the proposers who are behind the rules and the legislation we have today to prevent money laundering, and that is good. After all, it is good that we have strict rules to prevent criminals from laundering money through banks and to prevent terrorist financing. And as the Minister has already said, the technical review in the Ministry of Industry has also made it very clear that it is not possible, within the framework of the EU directives, to exempt associations from being part of the banks' control, regardless of the size of their economy. So while the first part of the motion for a resolution has already been or is in the process of being implemented, the second part of the motion for a resolution cannot be implemented immediately. That is why the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution either. Although I can see that there is a majority behind the resolution, I would just like to appeal to us not to commit each other to implementing legislation which is contrary to the EU legislation implemented by a large majority in this House. I very much hope that we can find a common ground on this in committee, because it is actually an agenda on which I have the impression that we share and agree in this regard. And the examples of association are, after all, many of how they are charged by the banks, and these are examples that, frankly, make you take care of your head. For very small associations, it is a completely disproportionate part of their economy that goes to bank charges, and the challenge is that they cannot avoid having a bank account. After all, banking is for the community, just as it is for individuals and companies, essential infrastructure in order to be able to operate its association. That is why I would just like to take this opportunity to send a very clear signal to the banks, because they also have a responsibility for us having a lively life of association in Denmark. As part of the infrastructure on which associations depend, they also have a responsibility. Nor is it reasonable, therefore, for them to charge fees of an order of magnitude which do not measure at all against the economy of the associations or the costs associated with having an association as a customer in the bank. So I think we should also take this opportunity today to send a very strong signal to the banks to take on board the social responsibility that comes with you when you are part of the infrastructure. After all, a working group has been set up to look at the specific challenges: what can be done in relation to fees and the concrete implementation of the money laundering rules, where both banks and associations are involved? I think that's really good. I look forward to following their work and hopefully this will help pave the way for a solution which is of course the most important thing. So I am very much looking forward to the committee reading of the proposal and I very much hope that, as I said, we can find common ground on how to proceed with an important agenda, even though the Social Democrats cannot therefore support the specific resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209172306	There are a few questions. The first is from sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209172311	Thank you. I understand that the rapporteur would like to send a clear signal to the banks. But why not send a clear signal to the European Union as well? If you cannot support it because it is the European Union that has established a directive that makes it impossible for the Folketing to do some things, why not send a clear signal to where we can change it? I think we agree so broadly that it is actually quite crazy to want to impose so many rules on our association life. Could one not go to the European Union and say that we would actually like to have the opportunity to make a small limit so that we do not put our small associations at risk with these things? It would be a good initiative for us to be able to stand together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209172342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209172344	I am not going to stand here and make myself an expert on EU money laundering rules. I can see that we are a very broad majority in the Folketing who have implemented the money laundering directives. I do not know what the positions were when the European Union adopted the legislation. But surely there can also be elements of European legislation that can be improved. For my sake, we can take a look at that. It just doesn't change the way it works because it's gonna have long prospects that we have a situation here and now, where the associations spend far too much of their money on fees that end up in the vault.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209172415	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209172417	It was actually quite sincere not to make conflict out of it. I am in favour of the EU process taking a long time. But after all, it is not a law of nature. Well, that's something that can be changed. I understand that it can take two or three years before it can succeed, but we could put a ship together in the lake now to change these things. We could send our government off with a task in the European Union to set a de minimis limit. I do not think there are so many other countries in Europe which share the same social life as we do, but they must encounter some of the same problems, so it must be possible to find a majority down in Brussels. So I really just want to know whether the Socialists will be helping to make a report on this, which could then enable us to send that ship, so that these rules could be changed in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209172457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209172458	In any case, I can say that we would very much like to take a look at a report. I think that is the way forward, even with the challenges posed by Danish legislation and the work that has been started, both in relation to the GDPR and the exceptions that may be made there, but also in relation to the working group that has now been set up, concerning the implementation of the money laundering rules in relation to associations. In any case, I would very much like to enter into a dialogue on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209172524	Then it's Mrs Birgitte Bergman, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209172527	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. This really is a challenge that fortunately we all want to resolve somehow. It has been a year and a half and, in respect of the fact that we have been and are under a hefty pandemic, I would also like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur can confirm anything in relation to what Mr. Søren Søndergaard pointed out earlier about why the previous government has done nothing about the problem. Isn't it true that the law on money laundering was only introduced in 2018, as well as to me known or was it 2019? At any rate, it is not long ago that these rules were first to enter into force and the regulation was first to be implemented before it could actually be discovered that there really was a problem with now's society?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209172625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209172627	It is true that the rules were introduced under the previous government. As I remember the consultation phase from then on, several organisations already pointed out during the consultation phase that challenges could arise when these rules were fully implemented. Whatever government is responsible for the morass we are in, I think we have a joint responsibility to resolve it. It is true that it has been a year and a half. There are, among other things. also because it has been the desire of society that we waited to get this work going until we could meet physically and the coronapandemic was over.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209172702	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman. Birgitte Bergman I have nothing more. ) Then it's mr. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209172711	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. The banks must have what they need, no more and no less. It is, I think, not up to a Parliament, and certainly not on a platform, to say that they should turn up or down their fees. At least I don't think so. But I would like to hear from the rapporteur: does the rapporteur know the programme of knowledge which is also in the hands of the banks and the administration and information which they are required to obtain from associations? There's a reason the banks actually charge a fee. I think it would also be interesting to get the drill out, what the banks actually spend on time and costs on the excuse we have set in motion here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209172755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209172757	I think it's good to get the drill out. I do not see that there is anything wrong with, including from this platform, perhaps in particular from this platform, sending a signal to the banks to take that social responsibility on themselves and say that you might be able to earn your money somewhere other than in the Danish community life. I do not think that is an unreasonable request. It is true that it is up to the banks themselves to do so. I would like the banks in Denmark to compete for who could be the best bank for society. I would, as a private customer, think that would represent healthy values in a bank. But it's up to the banks today. We have to look at, also in cooperation with the working group where they also participate, what we can do. I am well aware of the systems that the banks need. I believe that much of what is sensible to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing is far along the way, but that is why, I think, one might wonder why they should take such good care of themselves in order to exercise that control over a small association.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209172859	Sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209172901	Thank you. I am, of course, pleased that the rapporteur is aware of the administration that the banks must also carry out in order to meet the requirements that are now in place. But by far, the vast majority of banks, financial institutions that I know, want to be a part of the community. In fact, it is not a great pleasure for them to have to set these fees to local banks, because the local banks' employees are also in the local area, and they would really like to take part in raising social responsibility and a task, as the rapporteur says. There's actually a reason they're taking some fees. We'd like to have a closer look at how long they actually spend managing these things and rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209172944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209172946	There is probably also a very large difference between banks. It is also my impression, also from the studies that society itself has carried out, that there is a huge difference in both how difficult and how expensive it is to be a customer in the various banks. And there is probably also a big difference between how much you are an integral part of the community and the local community, or whether you are not. But there is a great difference, which is why there are different ways of managing the rules. After all, the whitewashing rules are just one part of the banking business, which imposes fees on the associations. There are also other things that are charged fees for, which are also high. After all, it all amounts to the fact that the cost of the banks for association has just become, I think, disproportionately high.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209173032	We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209173053	Thank you. It is important that we combat money laundering, that we make it difficult to use Danish companies, associations and other things to wash black money white money money that may come from crime, money to be spent on terrorist financing or gang crime, or whatever it may be. That is why some rules have been laid down to combat it, and that is, in fact, a good thing. Sometimes we just have to recognise that the resources we are setting in motion are not in line with the things we want to do, and that is certainly the case for the very small associations. There are a number of associations that have a limited economy... maybe quite a few thousand kroner in circulation a year... and then just to mention a few examples, and some have mentioned them, then it may be a chess club, it may be a role-playing club, or it may be folk dancers. In other words, it can be all associations that are found around the whole country. We have thousands of these associations, and that's great. It is one of the things that bind Denmark together that we have them. But that is not fair either when you find that they have to pay perhaps DKK 1,000. in fees per year, although they may only have 5,000 or 10,000 kroner. in their account. This is the result of the fact that banks have been subject to the rather harsh money laundering control. So, together with the other proposers, we think it is quite appropriate that they should be exempted from the money laundering rules, so that we may be able to make an exception for them. At least I think we could work towards that, although there may be some obstacles on the way. It is society that binds Denmark together. I think we agree that it is a unique thing for Denmark that we have so many associations in all areas of the world, from the football club to the dance club to the pensioner's association, or whatever it may be. There is virtually no limit to what we have associations for today. But it's no good for us to lay them down with bureaucratic rules either. One of the things I think you fight with out there is, among other things. This personal data regulation, that's GDPR. I do not think it is fair to make the same demands on a small association as you make a large company that may have more lawyers who can keep track of these things that are employed. Because we also need to respect the fact that it is voluntary work, so that you can end up scaring people away if they need to use the gunpowder on GDPR rules and money laundering rules and other things. I believe that even the most committed volunteers can be discouraged if they sit and use the gunpowder on GDPR rules instead of perhaps being a handball trainer or a badminton trainer, or whatever you think is what you're passionate about. We should be able to make this easier, and we must make it easier. I hear that there is support for that too. So in the Danish People's Party we think we should work on this motion for a resolution, and I would also like to say in advance to Enhedslisten that I think it is a good thing that Enhedslisten has asked a number of questions about this before, but we have actually done so through my colleague Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, who's been sitting with these money-laundering rules. So we have also had a great deal of focus on them even before it was implemented, because we also feared at the time that it would hit the smaller associations hard, and that is what we can see now, unfortunately. So again it is not to create a conflict with the Enhedslisten, but I just want to say that there are more of us who have fought the same battle and will make it forward-looking. We think we should continue to work on this and see if we cannot find a solution and also put pressure on the European Union, if that is the obstacle, because there must be others other than us who are sitting and having problems with you being hit by these rules. I don't believe it's the little chess club with 5,000 kroner. in the account that is used for money laundering. These were supposed to be the words of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209173433	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209173438	Thank you. I would like to take this opportunity to say that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær is absolutely right. So, the Danish People's Party also raised a lot of questions like we did, and as probably other parties have also done where it was predicted that this would go wrong. And so, among other things, insisted. The European Committee of the Regions believes that the government should be extra vigilant. But who, then, opposed it? Well, who was it that didn't follow all the warnings that came? Maybe I'd like to hear that, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær's assessment of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209173513	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209173516	I must honestly say that I cannot actually answer that precisely because I am relatively new to this rapporteurship, so I do not have the history with me. So, I was not involved in negotiations with the European Committee and in the negotiations on money laundering, so I can actually give nothing but a speculative offer, namely that it is probably to a large extent the EU-friendly parties that are afraid to enter the European Union. Perhaps they say that we simply have to introduce all the rules to the letter and then they will not fight enough for us to have these derogations. But I have to say honestly that I do not have the history with me, as I have already mentioned, so I cannot answer exactly what has happened back then.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209173547	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. There are no more brief comments. After all, there has been a rowade, so after DF it is no longer the Radical Left rapporteur we should welcome, but the SF rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209173616	Thank you for that, President. In Denmark we have a fantastic association life that allows the country to meet and cultivate its interests together with others. This is true whether you go to football or shaping, ballet or banko. The associations tie us together across different boundaries and contribute to the national cohesion. We must safeguard the life of association, and we must promote and strengthen it. That is why it is important that we act on the challenges facing society, and that is why the SF was also positive when we discussed resolutions before the summer on a large number of improvements to society, and we are still looking forward to that work being done more. Both the money laundering rules and the personal data regulation create obstacles that previous speakers have also presented so well, and they impose costs on small associations which make it more difficult to run an association. We need to take care of that. We must try to find ways and solutions to ensure that associations can continue to create unity and good memories around the country. There could also be a completely different way, and you could look at making some key digital solutions so that all the associations do not have to stand with it locally. It would not solve that part about money laundering, but perhaps some things could be avoided in relation to personal data law, because it is a huge work every time a volunteer has to register and put data into a system that may be different and cumbersome to manage. So it will be one of the ways we will be busy walking, because we also see that it may be a slightly faster road than some of the others we are working on here. In the SF, we fully recognise the intention behind the resolution and we would also like to thank the parties behind it for ensuring that we can continue to work to improve the conditions of associations. We have also missed a little initiative from the Minister. We fully support the fact that there has been so much work to be done, but the previous discussions still need to be followed up so that we can help and support society. And I am happy to listen to a working group, so I look forward to the results or what they will find, hopefully before the summer break. However, we do not believe that the problems that we are trying to solve here can be solved through these derogations in important legislation on money laundering and the protection of personal data. After all, this is also a matter, when we have adopted exactly that set of rules and agreed to it, of some more serious things that we are trying to close the gaps to. If we start opening up and making some of these exceptions, we're gonna start making some of these holes. That is why we look forward to the work that the working group has to do in finding solutions. Where are the roads? Is it such that Denmark interprets a little more restrictively? Can we do something about the banks? Could the Ministers come together and in dialogue with the banks in relation to these charges? Is there anything we can do a little more cross-cutting? I shall look forward to that very much in the future. Then I also know that there is work currently being done on the GDPR rules in the European Union, where we are looking precisely at how to relax, at least in terms of its implementation. So in those words we will say that we agree with the proposers in the very intention behind the proposal. With the comments I have made here today, we in the SF will look forward to the further work and good intentions to help the association life, but we cannot vote for the proposal as it stands here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209174028	Thank you to the SF rapporteur for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. Thanks for getting drunk. Then the next one we should welcome is Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209174103	Thank you. There are changes all the time. That fg. President That's what it's doing there). Denmark is a country of association. There are immense numbers of citizens who voluntarily and jointly address local and regional challenges and tasks, and this is a more than a hundred-year tradition, it is an almost two hundred-year tradition or perhaps even more than that, but it is certainly a long time. It is well known in Danish culture that we have an association life, and I have an example which I myself think is quite funny. At one point, every city in Denmark had an assembly house, it just didn't exist at all in Sweden and Norway. So we do not even have a common culture in such an area with the Nordic countries, with which we are otherwise very closely connected. It's just to stress the importance and tradition of Association Denmark. We have free schools, we have sports life, we have scouts, we have DUF, etc. etc. But now we have through the development of technology, because that is also part of the explanation, got money laundering rules and personal data regulation, and it all sounds really nice and important, but it affects the associations to an incredibly large extent in relation to their board challenges and the future of the associations, and that is not something that can be ignored. In fact, it is important that we continue to press for solutions to this problem here, and we do so in a multi-political and joint way, because we share that culture and appreciate it and want to keep it and provide it with opportunities for development. Then I note that in his speech the Minister tells me and I think that is a real encouragement, so I will conclude by saying that Finance Denmark has signed up to contribute and that this will be done by the second quarter of this year at the latest. You can wait for that, and then we'll see what happens in the second quarter of this year. It warmly supports the Radical Left and we look forward to a result in the second quarter of 2021. Now I've said it several times, so now it's settled, and it's impossible to run away from. And it's a hopeful sigh coming from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209174316	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. There are no brief comments. The next thing we're gonna say is welcome is Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209174343	Thank you so much. It's a cool round that we're up against or dealing with here. This is something that has been going on for a long time, and it is something that has been mentioned both in the money laundering directive, but also in the personal data regulation, and something that has, of course, created major problems. It is, of course, absurd that a small bridge, knitting or board gaming club, which is being set up for large companies, should have the same requirements. I do not know whether it can be called due diligence, but it is certainly positive that Finance Denmark announced here a few days ago that they are setting up this working group and thus also recognising that they must look at the possibility of facilitating the requirements laid down in the money laundering rules for associations. It is a necessity, in our view, for banks to remove the high demands and charges that help to ensure that it is not formalism but association that flourishes. After all, we have seen many examples, some of which have also been mentioned here, of the fact that the high demands placed on small associations help channel funds into banks, consultants, employee hours, accountants, and what I know, but in reality will mean less activity in individual associations. That is why we need to find a solution and it must be found soon. I understood from Mrs. Marianne Jelved that it had to be before that was where it was supposed to be? In the second quarter of 2021, I'm told. This is a fantastic time, I think. So we can agree to insist on that, and therefore also to comply with the agreement of understanding made after the last elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209174605	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. There are no brief comments. The next to be welcomed is Mrs Birgitte Bergman of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209174636	Thank you. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution tabled by the Conservatives, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance. It is in all its simplicity to remove some of the bureaucracy from our associations and associations, so that they have the best framework for working without opening up criminal backers and others who want to cheat. Civil society and its many activities are perhaps the best glue that exists to bind our society and community together. We would be a poorer society without the many resources that volunteers put into creating activity and meaning both for participants and for the many. Activities taking place in civil society are diverse, and a wide range of activities and offers of education and development would not exist without the efforts of the many active volunteers that exist throughout the country. It is from the many sports clubs, free schools, small art schools, chess and music associations to something like night owls or visiting friends. Large parts of our cultural and sports life would stop and run on a low blouse without the many volunteers. A lot of effort is being put into our association life, and that is why we must thank you very much from here to the many volunteers around the country: you are making a huge difference. And we know that right now this is an extraordinarily difficult situation, and it also underlines the importance of holding hands under the Danish Association and hopefully we will soon be able to open up again. When we stand here today, it is because many smaller voluntary associations are experiencing significant increases in bank charges due to GPDR and money laundering rules, which make operations either difficult to run around or do not make sense to maintain. The White Wash Act has been implemented as a result of an EU directive. In other words, we have not been required to incorporate the directive into Danish law in its direct form, but have been able to adapt it. That is why there seems to be an opportunity to change it, and that is what we want with this motion for a resolution. I therefore very much welcome the fact that, on the basis of the motion for a resolution, the Minister has responded and took the initiative last week at a meeting of cultural rapporteurs to set up a working group coordinated by Finance Denmark, as I understand it, and with the Ministry of Business, the Ministry of Culture, PET, DGI, DIF, DUF, DFS and FSA, whose aim is to find a solution to set a de minimis limit for associations with few transactions and a smaller deposit. I look forward to having a report and a solution in the second quarter, before the summer break, and I look forward to the joint debate. I also note that we have now received a timetable from the Ministry of Justice, which will come in the spring, and that is just around the corner, with an analysis of the GPDR rules, and it will have to examine precisely whether Denmark can apply exemptions in the personal data regulation to the benefit of society. With this motion for a resolution, we wish to stress that solutions must be found to take account of the very special circumstances of Danish society. We must remember that associations play a major role in the development of an active civil society and in promoting the meeting of people from different parts of society. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209175002	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I do not see anyone from the Liberal Alliance or from the New Citizen, so that is why it is now the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Stén Knuth from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209175037	Thank you. I just want to sign for our good conversation about our association life and our volunteers. I think some good statements have been made, and I would also like to thank the Minister for her commitment to stepping in now. We have been a little bit late, but we think it is gratifying that things are now getting under way, because it is needed out there. If you're really gonna step up on the big blade and I think that's what you're gonna do, sir. Søren Søndergaard wants to nod yes to this, so this is about the cohesion force in our country. We are talking about tiny associations in small communities that we are about to kill because of this, and that is why it is urgent. We can scold each other a little, in relation to who has decided what and what has been done in the past, but even the Left has also come there, and that is why I am here today • that we believe that we have done too much, and therefore it is good that Søren Søndergaard is scolding. However, we have come to the point that we believe that something must be done now and that something else must be done, and this must be done quickly, because otherwise we will lose the cohesion we have in this country and which is carried by a great many voluntary and very many associations that are carrying out the task in an unusual way. It is characteristic of Denmark, and we must be very careful about that. I am, of course, pleased that this working group is being set up, but I am not sure that we will remain completely calm and just sit still for six months until there are some proposals, if that is what was in the Minister's request to calm down so that we can get some answers. Because I actually believe that we can also politically push on with our systems. In other words, one might well ask the FSA, which is perhaps just coarse enough with the file, whether they are discussing the same things that we politicians are discussing, i.e. whether we are over-implementing something here. The Minister also mentions that the legislation that has been rolled out on the basis of EU legislation has been rolled out close to text, and that means that we have tightened it all we can at all. And I do not know if it can be said with pride that this is something we have seen in other areas, that is, when the European Union has unfolded and we have had to implement it, we have gone to the maximum. Into it. At least I could mention a few other areas where we might seem to have overimplemented something. We would like that to be examined and, of course, we are going to ask a whole series of questions about this, which is why we will not remain calm, but ask the questions and hopefully get answers, so that we can also take a political decision on some of the things that are going on in this area. We are fully in favour of preventing money laundering and sending money to fund terrorism out of the country. We are totally in favour of this, but it is just the reverse that, as we see it, we have simply overimplemented that legislation, which means that our small associations are being knocked down. I'm not quite sure we're only supposed to scold the banks on our own. They have to take responsibility, and so do they. And I don't think it's gonna solve anything, we're gonna yell at each other, we're gonna yell at somebody or we're gonna yell at somebody in the company that's gonna do the job. In fact, I believe that everyone agrees that there is a task we need to solve and that we need to resolve quite quickly. Thank you for the debate. Thanks for letting us get on with this. I am, of course, looking forward to the discussions we will have in committee in connection with the further work on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209175448	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209175453	Thank you. Well, it's just for the Left's rapporteur, sir. Stén Knuth, don't get me wrong. I am very pleased that we are united in this matter, and I think it is positive, regardless of what has been of past history. We need to get something done about it, because I fully agree with Mr Beazley. Stén Knuth: This is really something that hits small associations. Perhaps it is difficult for the banks and perhaps it is also difficult for people working in larger organizations to understand quite how much it means for people who have voluntarily entered into an association work to collect some money for a table tennis club or something, what it is that goes in some money because they sell some tickets, and there is some fixed money going out to the same club; that is, it is so easy to understand so that half of it could be enough to suddenly be burdened with a huge administrative work. So I am really glad that we agree on this matter of doing something about it. There should be no doubt about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209175552	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209175555	Thank you. Søren Søndergaard hits the essence of everything we are talking about, that is, that there are a lot of volunteers and associations who want to lift something, but that what they are being set up is to manage and pay money to have money in the bank. So I fully agree, and let us keep working together on this, and let us keep pushing on with the agenda that lies here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209175616	There is no follow-up line. Then we'll pray, sir. Kasper Sand Kjær from the Social Democratic Party on a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209175624	I also think it is a very good debate. We are very much in agreement on the problem. We want to find common solutions, and we also look forward to the discussion in committee on how to find a way forward. I am just a little curious whether the rapporteur from the Left does not recognise that the banks also have a responsibility and, of course, also have a choice as to what fees they want to charge from associations. It is not, of course, something that is required by the law, that is to say, to charge such high fees. After all, it is a choice for each bank to charge such a high fee from a small association.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209175701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209175702	I do not think that Kasper Sand Kjær heard me say that nobody has a responsibility here. In fact, I think we all do, and that is why it is also a common solution that we must come up with. As I also mentioned when Kasper Sand Kjær was on the platform, I actually think that there are a lot of banks who want to be part of a community and help to carry out a social task, but simply because of the administration they have to perform because of these rules, they will also have to charge a fee. Whether it is too big or too small is a discussion I cannot enter into, because I simply do not know the basis enough to answer it. But to return: we all have a responsibility, and I do not really believe that we solve anything by blaming one sector for the fact that this is going downside-down.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209175749	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209175751	Of course we all have a responsibility. We fully agree on this and, as legislators, we have a particular responsibility for the situation of our small associations. But I might just like to get a clearer answer. In other words, it is the individual bank that chooses to charge fees from associations. I'll tell you what. Mr Stén Knuth is not calling for a bank to consider whether it is here that you really should earn your money, on the small associations, or whether you might be able to finance your banking business by other means and thus contribute to a living association life in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210209175822	Sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209175823	Yes, it is quite clear, and it has to be the signal from here, that you are constantly considering what it is you are charging for. But there is a reason why they take a fee and I tried to say, also when I asked questions here earlier, that we look into a Gordian knot. In other words, there are some banks that have to assess, and there are PETs that say that all associations are at risk, and that is why the banks must bring in a great many papers, even if they do not want to, because otherwise the supervision will come and say that they will have to, otherwise they will have to. So there is a Gordian node, which we hope will also be solved with some of the proposals that come from the working group that will be working on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209175904	Thank you, sir. Stén Knuth. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210209175930	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 10 February 2021, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
