ParlaMint-DK_20210505100213	The meeting has been opened with a slight delay. But it's gonna be okay anyway. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 231 (Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Active Employment and the Law on Unemployment Insurance, etc.) up to 2022 and an exemption for resettlement during a new daily allowance period for persons covered by the training promise). Tax Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. L 232 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Recovery of Debts to the Government, the Tax Administration Act and the Boat of Death Tax Act (Amendments to support the transfer of claims to a new recovery system, automated offsetting and handling of debt payments with res judicata or suspicion of data errors, etc.) and Bill No. L 233 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on energy taxes on petroleum products, etc., the Spirit Tax Act, the VAT Act and various other laws (Implementation of the recast circulation directive, the directive on military mobility and changes in the alcohol structure directive, adjustment of the rules on access to the conditions of authorisation and registration of undertakings, clarification of the de minimis rule in a number of tax laws, adjustment of the VAT rules applicable to rental companies and the sale of motor vehicles by driving schools and adaptation to EU rules on the date of entry of the VAT deduction, etc.)). Tanja Larsson (S), Bertel Haarder (V), Søren Espersen (DF), Martin Lidegaard (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF), Christian Juhl (EL), Rasmus Jarlov (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Henrik Dahl (LA), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam-Dam (SIU), Sjúrður Skaale (JF) and Edmund Joensen (SP) and others.: Question No. F 63 (What can the Prime Minister say about the opportunities and challenges of the Kingdom Community?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20210505100337	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Development Cooperation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505100355	Thank you to the President and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution from DF. Let me start by emphasising that it is the government's clear policy that Denmark should not give development aid to countries whose governments refuse to accept their own citizens. That is why we fully agree with the proposers and can only support the intention of the draft law. That is why I am pleased today to have the opportunity to tell you what the government has done to reduce the number of countries which do not cooperate on the readmission of their own nationals and which receive Danish assistance. Let me also make it clear that all countries are obliged to accept their own nationals if they are not legally resident on the territory of another country. It is an international legal obligation that was recognised at global political level in the 2018 UN Migration Statement. All countries are obliged to withdraw their own citizens and to assist in promoting readmission. It is therefore not a condition that specific readmission agreements or separate incentives have been concluded. Development aid is therefore not a necessary part of a cooperation on readmission, and it is also a long way from all the countries to which Denmark has sending staff to receive Danish development aid. However, development aid is clearly one of the tools that can be used to promote cooperation with a country of origin on readmission. We have approximately 1,100 asylum seekers in Denmark in the sending position from a large number of countries. With the vast majority of countries of origin, we have good and well-established cooperation on broadcasting, but unfortunately there are also some countries where cooperation is difficult. At the time of the government's accession in 2019, which was in June, five countries continued to receive long-term development assistance, while at the same time it was the National Police's assessment that the countries did not cooperate. These were Sudan, Iran, Myanmar, India and Iraq. Since then, progress has been made in cooperation with both Sudan, Myanmar and India to the extent that cooperation is satisfactory today. When I say long-term development aid, it is because it is really important to distinguish between long-term development aid and humanitarian aid. Humanitarian aid is provided in accordance with international humanitarian principles, i.e. it is provided solely to meet the humanitarian needs of people in need, regardless of their background. In addition, Denmark normally provides humanitarian aid only through Danish and international humanitarian partners and thus not to state authorities and governments of the recipient countries. As far as Iran is concerned, the situation is that it is no longer included in this problem we are discussing today, but unfortunately it is not because it has succeeded in improving cooperation on readmission, but because in 2020 the government stopped the limited long-term development aid that it received in the past. Therefore, until satisfactory cooperation on deployment is established, Iran will only be able to receive humanitarian aid. With Iraq, the situation is that it does receive long-term development aid, although cooperation on readmission is not yet considered to be fully satisfactory. However, it is important to emphasise that there has been a comprehensive dialogue with the Iraqi authorities over a number of years and that, in addition to successful cooperation on voluntary repatriation, there is also an absolutely constructive dialogue on the possibility of forced service. The long-term aid we provide to Iraq is mainly for regional peace and stabilisation efforts, and the aim is to contribute to greater regional stability by combating the radicalisation and terrorism that sustains the country in negative development. At the same time, the support goes towards reducing the number of people long-term displaced in Iraq. The funds are channelled primarily through UN organisations. No direct support is given to the Iraqi Government. A smaller part of long-term development assistance goes through the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs' strategic partnerships with Danish civil society organisations that try to improve conditions for internally displaced and local host communities. So when we look at the overall picture, it is extremely satisfactory to be able to see that the efforts that have been made over a number of years have worked. Today, the number of countries where there are still challenges with cooperation on return is historically low. Denmark has, as a starting point, a good cooperation with most third countries on the return of foreigners without legal residence in Denmark. As part of cooperation with the countries of origin, Denmark in some cases supports activities in the countries of origin, which help to improve the ability of countries to address challenges of irregular migration and readmission of their own nationals. To that end, funds under development assistance have been allocated since 2017 to promote cooperation on deployment. The means of transmission are subject to a rather rather rather rather rather somewhat somewhat-natured approach, which means that clear demands are made on the beneficiary countries' cooperation on deployment in return for receiving the aid. The countries which comply with the obligation to accept their own nationals are thus rewarded, while, on the other hand, increased pressure is being put on those countries which do not comply with this obligation. One example is Sudan, where cooperation over many years had been blocked. As part of a closer dialogue initiated with the authorities in Khartoum, dedicated means of broadcasting were brought into play in the negotiations. Denmark offered to finance the UN Migration Organisation, IOM, so that they could deploy an electronic control system at the country's borders at airports, on land and in Port Sudan. Migration authorities were trained in modern border management, including handling of document counterfeiting. It is a project that in itself is beneficial for Sudan's ability to handle irregular migration and thus also in Denmark's interest. The discussions and financial support resulted in a common understanding on readmission, and by the end of 2019 it was possible for the first time to carry out a forced transmission to Sudan. As I began by saying, the government fully agrees with the intention of the resolution. Denmark should not provide long-term development aid to countries that refuse to accept their own citizens, and I have to say that I think it is going the right way. There is only one country where there are still challenges with the readmission of its own nationals and which receives long-term Danish development aid, but even there is therefore a constructive dialogue. It is, of course, a snapshot that can change over time, but even if we have not yet achieved our goal, it is satisfactory to be able to see that the effort is working and that is why it would be counterproductive to set the end of this parliamentary assembly as a deadline, because it is now necessary to achieve a solid diplomatic effort, because, as the proposers will probably agree with me, the aim is to make cooperation work. It is clearly preferable to stop aid alone without solving the basic problem, and we would like to invest a little more time and effort in that. Patience does not, of course, last forever, but we are not prepared to throw the towel in the ring now as long as there is movement in the dialogue. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505101234	There are a number of questions, and the first comes from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505101236	Thank you, President. When we have this discussion today, it is first and foremost because the issue of not giving development aid to countries that do not want to take their own citizens back was a central part of the social democracy's proposal that was presented before the parliamentary elections. As the government approaches its two-year birthday, it has been shown by a review of this proposal that quite a lot of the things that have not yet been realized have been promised to the electorate. Some of the things you understand. I can, for example. well understand that it takes time to negotiate with a third country to create a reception centre. But something as simple as simply placing the accounts in the Finance Act, where we pay money to Iran and Iraq, at 0, shouldn't take that long. So what is so difficult here? I don't understand. In other words, these are two countries which do not want to accept their own citizens. The Social Democratic Party has promised that they will not have foreign aid either, but in the Finance Act for the current Finance Act they will receive just under 100 million. kr. Why haven't you just put those accounts at 0 until they take back their own citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505101342	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505101344	Thank you for the question. I would like to repeat here what I started by saying. I am actually very pleased that we will have the opportunity to discuss the situation here. I say that we are actually satisfied that the number of countries has been reduced as it is and that Iran has been written out of the equation in itself as it stands. So it is Iraq that is the challenge and, as I say here, it is a clear assessment that we are in a constructive dialogue. It would be nice to be able to achieve the objective, in other words that we also put the deployment framework in place with Iraq, and that is what we hope and believe in. That is also why we believe that, as I said, it would be counterproductive to withdraw the aid now. Because we are in a very good dialogue with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505101427	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505101430	Now the government and the Danish People's Party basically also see development aid differently. I believe, in principle, that I will refrain from giving any kind of assistance to a country such as Iran with the regime currently in Tehran, but leave it at that. When, then, does the Minister think that we are going to reach a goal in relation to Iraq? I understand that the Minister thinks it is premature to say that it should be within this assembly of parliaments of which there is a month's time left, so it will not be there. Will it be this year? Will it be before the parliamentary elections? What is the time estimate for the government to deliver what it has promised the electorate?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505101502	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505101505	I cannot say any time for it to be, but we are working on it and we are pushing for it, because I fully agree with what the proposers are expressing and adopting as a political position, namely that there should be an opportunity to return home. We believe and believe and hope that the discussion and dialogue with Iraq will result in the same as with the other three countries I mentioned, and we think that this is a great success. Because it has been going on for many years that there have been challenges. There are three countries that we can put our feet on; there is a country that has slipped out; and then there is Iraq left where there are constructive negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505101542	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505101547	Thank you, Minister. After all, we are pleased to hear that the Social Democrats share the view that, as a starting point, development aid should not be given to countries that do not receive their own citizens. However, as the Minister himself says, the situation in Iraq in particular cuts its eyes, not least when we consider how much we have contributed, contributed and fought in Iraq. Can the Minister comment a little further on whether there are any of our allies, to put it that way, in other words some other countries with which we typically work, which are actually successful in returning to Iraq? 'Cause it's kind of a muddy picture. One feels a little that the Iraqis keep the cards close to the body, for example. When it comes to the question of whether Britain is successful in sending to Iraq. Or is it the case that Iraq does not receive citizens from any country at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505101631	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505101635	Thank you for the question. I must say right away that I cannot answer that question. It will be my fellow minister, Mr. Mattias Tesfaye over from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration who wants the details, but they can of course be produced so that it is noted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505101649	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505101652	Thank you. To put it bluntly, this is not a new problem. It was also a problem we faced when we had the power of government. But at least this is a call to see whether cooperation with other countries could be achieved, for example. Norway or Britain, or perhaps the Netherlands, if they face a similar challenge. Everything else is putting greater pressure on the Iraqis if we are a number of countries that go together and say: now you have to deliver on it to receive your own citizens, because everything else will hit the Iraqis somewhat harder if we are many countries that start to withdraw aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505101722	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505101724	I totally agree. We can say that Iraq is exactly a country where we work with like-minded countries in very, very complicated contexts. That's why I'm gonna make sure I address this challenge too. Well, we currently have approx. 80 rejected asylum seekers from Iraq, who are in the sending position, and that is, of course, in relation to those who are waiting for them, a very large number. That is also why we are working so hard, and that is also why I stress that there is a constructive dialogue with Iraq at the moment, and we would very much like to achieve that in the same way as we have achieved in the dialogue with three other countries. And the rapporteur is absolutely right: this has been going on for a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505101803	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505101808	Thank you. I could be tempted to ask the minister what the minister would do or vote if there were a proposal from the EU that if the EU Member States would not accept their own citizens, they would close the box, for example. In the case of Denmark, if you did not want to. But I don't think I'm gonna get an answer to that. We've been trying to get that many times. There were two countries that the Minister went over lightly: Myanmar and India. I would like to hear how we can have satisfactory cooperation with a country such as India, which currently has a military dictatorship leading the country. I don't quite understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505101850	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505101854	Thank you, President. The current situation in relation to the escalation of the conflict and the takeover of the military regime in Myanmar is all too well known. That is also why I say that these things are dynamic. However, as far as India is concerned, what gives the success is that the Indian Government has said that they have compliance with what is the set of rules. That is what is working satisfactorily now, and that is why it can, like, be deleted from the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505101924	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505101928	I mean, how can people be sent back to Myanmar in a situation where some of my old trade union colleagues are actually killed? There are several people who have been killed alone to walk the streets and demonstrate for democracy. I don't really understand. After all, there are countries that would gladly take their people back to put them in jail because they disagree politically with them or to execute them. There are a lot of nuances on this issue, and I think that both the Danish People's Party and the Minister look at it very, very simplisticly when they so schematically discuss this complicated situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505102006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505102009	Well, I do not agree with the rapporteur, and I say precisely that this is very dynamic. I have just said that developments in Myanmar are so serious and critical, and we draw attention to this from the Danish side, from the government, from the European Union and from the world community every day and on every occasion we have the opportunity to do so. That is why it can be said that no one knows what the situation is now. Now there is no democratic regime in Myanmar. There is a military regime and that is why the situation is quite different and it has changed within a few months.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505102043	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505102052	There is certainly no democratic regime in Syria, I should like to say, Mr President. Minister. I can't help thinking about if you had to pursue this line of thinking, that in 2016 Denmark was the country that received most foreign aid from Denmark. That is the mechanism, and if you had had the same situation then you should take the aid from Denmark because we will not accept our own citizens from the Al-Hol camp. It is the irony of fate that speaks here, and it tells us a little about how these dogmas, which both the government and the rest of the blue bloc always put up in these very complicated issues, end up as historical contradictions, and I think it is sad. Can the Minister not just spend a little bit of time telling us what development aid is really going to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505102140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505102143	Thank you for the question, and I can spend hours explaining that. Because as a new minister in this area, I have come to the details and it is a very, very wide range. That is also why, in my speech here, I distinguish between what is long-term development aid and what is humanitarian aid. That is, where, for example, we are dealing with development aid. working, is in relation to rights, it is in relation to supporting democracy, to reducing poverty, to making states more stable in order to carry out democratic processes, and I could go on because that list is very, very long. It is also in terms of creating job creation and, in general, supporting a country to emerge from poverty and crisis and poverty, and that is what we have lived up to for decades as one of the very few Western countries. In fact, we are only four countries in the Western world that meet the UN's goal of giving 0.7 per cent. of our development aid, and we do so with pride, and we do so with a very, very broad consensus here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505102250	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505102254	Yes, I remember the social democracy that was very angry when the Fogh government cut 1.5 billion. off, and we came a little bit below that one percent, but leave it at that. I thought it was a wonderful answer that we had here, which also says that the Minister must reject Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's proposal, because it is also in our own interests that we develop these countries if we do not want migration to increase. Can the Minister not confirm that there is a considerable amount of self-interest in providing development aid, not least long-term development aid? Because it is the one that gives the citizens of the Third World a perspective so that they stay where they come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505102345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505102348	Yes, I can very, very easily confirm that, sir. Jens Rohde in is the strategy of the government with our development aid, and this has been the case for decades with changing governments. Even earlier, the rate of return was mentioned in relation to development aid. We don't do that anymore today. We assess very, very critically what we are providing development aid for, but it must be something that builds up. It can be said that what is discussed in the motion for a resolution here is whether we should stop development aid to countries that refuse to accept their own nationals, and there I said in my speech that there are simply international rules here in relation to the fact that it should be
ParlaMint-DK_20210505102425	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505102434	Thank you. I think a little along the lines of that, sir. Jens Rohde said that it is important to establish what the purpose of long-term development aid is. Well, what's the point? Is it to pursue Danish immigration policy, or is it to combat poverty? I really think the Minister should be clearer about this when he rejects this motion for a resolution. So what is the purpose of long-term development aid from Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505102456	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505102459	After all, we have a very good framework for what development aid needs to be provided for. We have this in the OECD's DAC framework. That is what we are dealing with internationally. We then clearly set political ambitions on the Danish side, and this has always been done in relation to development aid, for example. in relation to where the aid will be given geographically. It is quite natural, and that is what the government thinks we are working on in relation to the new development policy strategy and that, of course, we also need to look at what is in Denmark's own interests. This is also the case on the American continent, as is the case on the Asian continent. We look at where it can be said that there is a threat to Denmark, where there are some neighbourhoods where we think it would be best to build prosperity, democracy and rights, for example. for girls, women and marginalised groups. There, of course, we are choosing a number of areas of action, and we are doing so on the basis of what is the framework for the development policy strategy. It will end with this year, and there we will have a new one, and the rapporteurs and also Mr Gundelach. Rasmus Nordqvist is well aware that this is a process we are in full swing with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505102607	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505102611	Yes, completely, but I just think it is important to discuss this kind of motion for a resolution which is, of course, DF classics, and they may have a need to put forward them once in a while to draw attention to their policy to look at: What do we want with long-term development policy? Are we going to pursue Danish domestic policy or are we going to fight poverty in the world? And is that the overall purpose? Then there may be some underlying things that we use to work against inequality, work against poverty. However, I think it is important to have the overall objective of long-term development aid in mind when we discuss it, whether it has been put forward to discuss its classic political positions on the part of a party, or it is the negotiations that are about to start.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505102654	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505102658	I think it is really important and crucial that we look again at what is set up as an international framework for development aid, in other words the OECD DAC framework, and it says that long-term development aid can also be used to support capacity building in the area we are talking about here today. So I do not think that there is any contradiction in relation to development aid by both weighing up what is in the interests of Denmark, Europe, and what is the reduction of poverty and inequality and undemocratic frameworks and rights for vulnerable groups. And it is completely escaping with what is the socialist idea in this area. Then I think it is really crucial that we work together internationally, of course. We work closely together within the European Union and we have very close cooperation within the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505102745	Then we would like to thank the Minister for Development Cooperation. There are no more questions. And after a little despriting of the disk, we can move on to the rapporteur's line. Thank you for that, and we welcome Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, Social Democrat, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505102818	Thank you, President. With the resolution here, the Danish People's Party proposes to ensure that Denmark does not provide development aid to countries that refuse to accept their own citizens. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe, like the proposers, that countries which receive Danish aid crowns should of course accept their own citizens when they are refused asylum or for other reasons have to leave Denmark. It is essential that foreigners are sent out by Denmark as far as possible when they no longer have the right to reside here. As the Minister for Development explained, since we came to the government in the summer of 2019 there has been a job in getting recipient countries of Danish aid crowns to accept their own citizens. There has been a critical dialogue between Denmark and the beneficiary countries concerned and this dialogue has worked as intended. In June 2019 five countries did not accept their own citizens and at the same time received Danish aid crowns. Today that is only the case for one country, namely Iraq, and here what the Minister said goes ahead with the work, and on that basis the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505102926	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505102932	Thank you. I do not know whether the rapporteur can hear that it seems a little paradoxical that we are not going to support a proposal which is, after all, completely mapped out from the Social Democrats' own programme. Can the rapporteur now also ask the Minister before, but it may be that the rapporteur can build on the Minister's reply ■ say something about what it is really the problem of just slamming the box in the face of Iraq? So why is it that we have to compromise on Iraq with what I have to understand is the policy of the Socialist Government? Wouldn't it be smarter and perhaps diplomatically easier just to say, if you don't partner right, then we'll send the check off?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103023	It is true that this is our policy, but perhaps I do not think it is quite right to present it as if it were not the policy we are pursuing. I think the Minister actually explained this and I myself explained it in all modesty. When I have to reply a little more specifically to why not just close the box against Iraq, for example, I think it was another matter if it was a question of us simply sending cheques to the Iraqi Government and then letting things go their way. After all, I think that there is also a Danish interest in some of the efforts being made with development funds, for example. combating radicalisation and combating terrorism. There, too, we have an interest in this kind of thing not spreading and, in time, also spreading to our own continent. In addition, I think that, for a country like us, there is a surplus to help combat some of the distress and disaster that affects some of these countries. This could also be one of the reasons why the people cannot live, for example, in a country such as Iraq or parts of a country such as Iraq, if, for example, they are not able to live. land mines. Then we can support by these means that the landmines are cleared away and removed, and we can prevent people from moving away from their homeland.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103135	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103137	All those good intentions, I think, as we agree. That is also why, as a country, we provide development aid to promote those projects and make it tolerable to live in those countries so that people do not come up here and destabilise ours. But that does not change the fact that the government and the Social Democrats said that development aid would be stopped for those countries that do not accept. Then it may well be that we have managed to negotiate some things with India and Myanmar and so on. But now that we can soon celebrate the 2nd anniversary of the government, I have to say that something is still missing in terms of realising what has been promised to your electorate. So if we have voted for the Social Democracy, when can we expect it to become a reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103227	Now I am not assuming that the rapporteur has voted for the Social Democracy, but care is touching. As the Minister explained, at the time of the government's accession there were a number of countries which did not accept their own citizens but received development aid. There, then, in a dialogue with them, there has been critical action and has said: we must change this, you must accept your own citizens. A large majority of them have begun to do so. Now, as the Minister explained, there have been good discussions with Iraq, and things are just as moving in the right direction, the impression is given. And, hopefully, as we are on our way to the goal, I think we should pursue the good work that appears to be bearing fruit rather than ending it now. However, our policy is thus also intact in relation to what we put forward in fair and realistic terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103315	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103320	Now I would also like to ask the Minister who avoided it: is it not somewhat double moral that Denmark does not want to accept its citizens, but wants to force countries that are poorer and have difficulty in saying no to development aid, to take their own citizens with the devil's violence and power regardless of what?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103344	No, it is by no means hypocritical or double moral. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Christian Juhl here is thinking of the Danish citizens who are in the IS prison camps. When we don't accept them, it's because there hasn't been a trial. It was another matter if these people had been in court, served a sentence and been expelled from the area where they were. But that is not the case. There has just been no trial, and that is what we believe there should be. There has to be a trial. These people should not be freed from the crimes they may have committed against Yazidians, Iraqis, Syrians and all sorts of other innocent people. That is why I believe that they should be prosecuted in the area and that they should be judged. If they have then one day served a sentence and been expelled from somewhere, then it is another matter if Denmark will not accept them. But that's just not where we are. Therefore, the situation is not comparable to that of...
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103437	I'm gonna need a little more quiet talk. It is not easy for the rapporteur and the questioner to hear what is being said if too much is being spoken of by those who have not been allowed to say anything yet. And you haven't yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103457	Can I make a quick round? That fg. President Yes. ) Therefore, the situation is not quite comparable to a situation in which a foreigner who has been through a Danish legal system has been sentenced to expulsion and then refuses to leave and his country of origin will not accept the citizen. These are not comparable situations. Therefore, there is no element of hypocrisy or double standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103510	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103512	It's gonna go really wrong. I mean, you could take your Danish citizens home and bring them to court in Denmark. Then you are sure that legal certainty is in order and that there is a balance in one's attitudes. I mean, this shit is yelling at the sky of double standards. I can't see that there's no comparability in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103531	Well, in case Mr. Keating isn't here. Christian Juhl went to Venezuela or where Mr. Christian Juhl likes to go, and he committed a crime, then he would be prosecuted in Venezuela. Then there would be some sentence, and then he would be put in prison, and he might be expelled. In that case he would then have to return to Denmark, and Denmark would of course accept him. It is not comparable to people who have committed crimes in the Islamic State and have not been through a trial. That is the difference and therefore it is not comparable.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103559	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103605	Now, for once, I was just as happy about it, sir. Rasmus Stoklund stood and said. But that's very shocking to hear. Excuse me. A former Foreign Minister, who has considerably more experience than this government, together with travelling around with a suitcase, asking other countries to welcome their citizens, namely Per Stig Møller of the Conservative People's Party, has said that it completely destroys what is happening in travelling to other countries and asks them to accept their own citizens, by asking the Kurds, who by God have enough problems to apologize, President, I must not call on the higher powers who really, really face great problems, accept our citizens. We Danes therefore believe that our citizens should be the Kurdish problem. Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, if he looks at himself in the mirror, that's all right?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103715	There may be a lot of problems when I look at myself in the mirror, but it's not exactly in this context. I would also like to say that if anyone has to call on the higher powers, it is Mr. Jens Rohde. I believe that these are two very different situations. I am going to repeat myself a little, but if we do not want to accept Danish citizens who are in prison camps with IS prisoners, it is because they have not been through a trial. We have a goal, together with our allies, that they should, after all, be a goal that we share, that a regional or local court process should be established. This is to prevent these people from committing some crimes they may have been involved in, and that is the risk if all those with a red-bellied passport are simply evacuated to Denmark and then are allowed to drop cheaper because they have a red-bellied passport. So there are 3,000 km to witnesses and crime scenes and victims, and it would not be fair if they were then judged only for part of what they might have been involved in committing. That is why we want justice to be done in the region. It is not comparable to the fact that some have
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103819	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103822	That still leaves the bill with the Kurds. But let me return to what I really wanted to ask, namely the situation in Iraq. If anyone bears a responsibility for what Iraq is like today and the constitution that Iraq is today, it is certainly the Left, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party, myself included. Is the rapporteur aware of the fact that the situation we have been involved in creating is helping to make the negotiations with Iraq more difficult to take home to their own citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103908	No, I have to say quite frankly that I have absolutely no preconditions for entering into an assessment of this. I think it makes sense to have a dialogue with Iraq to reach the goal that Iraq also welcomes its own citizens. The Minister explained that there was a constructive dialogue in this context. I think that is a good thing, and that is why I do not share the wish expressed today that everything should be closed down. I think, for example, that something like clearing land mines is meaningful, and I also think that something like combating radicalisation and terrorism is meaningful, not only for the Iraqis, but also for the rest of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103940	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505103945	Thank you. You would then want to do the opposite. We are also asking other countries to take citizens back to serve because we do not think they should sit in Danish prisons and fill up the room but enough about it. What I really want to go back to is that this case has the danger that it is a little about this concept, which is called whataboutism, so to make something about something different than it really is. I would like to come back to hear what long-term development aid is. What is the purpose of the Social Democratic Party? Is it still the fight against poverty? Is it still gone to fight inequality in the world? Or is it to conduct Danish domestic politics to talk about repatriations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505104021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505104025	Now, I have to be careful not to make such an overly bombastic statement on behalf of the entire Social Democratic Party about this, because I have to admit that I am probably not quite well dressed for that. But I'd still like to try to answer and raise a little bit in the helicopter compared to this particular case and try to answer as well as possible. In my opinion, when you are a very rich and prosperous country like ours, which has the resources and profits to make a difference in the world, then you have to do so. That's why I think we should spend money on this type of bet. It's to help people in parts of the world who aren't feeling as well, and it's to try to get • if you're going to say it a little mercantile • most humanism for the money. For many of the people in the world who are in need do not have the shadow of a chance to get to, for example. Denmark and seek asylum, and poverty migrants will not be able to obtain asylum either if they came, because it is not an asylum base. But that is why they still need to improve their life opportunities and develop their countries. And I think that's the main purpose of this. Then there are some derived effects of doing what is positive, because it can provide business cooperation and it can give all sorts of derived positive effects. But the superior is to make the world a better place, if you are to put it a little floppy first.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505104141	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505104146	I think that is an important point. I think it is an important point that when we talk about long-term development aid, it is about what kind of world we are creating, and not all sorts of other agendas that individual parties seem to be important to get up to stand up, but how we combat inequality and precisely not instrumentalise each part of development aid for us to have just achieved this or this. There are some general objectives which I actually thought the Social Democrat Foreign Affairs rapporteur describes very well. After all, it is a question of what we want with long-term development aid, and not so much else.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505104217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505104220	Thanks for the nice words. Yes, I think we share that view of what is the purpose of providing development aid. But that does not change the fact that I think it is good, when you come down from the helicopter again, to have some principles on how to do it, so that it continues to enjoy the support of the people and so that you can see that the money and the funds are spent in a fair and just way. That is also what I think one can see is the consequence of some of the critical dialogues one has had with different countries, that one slowly reaches the goal, because one argues and can see that there is something in it for both parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505104254	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There have been new napkins despriting; it's nice. The next rapporteur, who is preparing himself, is Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505104319	Thank you for that, President, and not least thank you to the Danish People's Party for talking about something that we absolutely also share, namely the whole interest that when a country receives development aid from Denmark, it should of course also be the case that they accept their own rejected citizens as a starting point. In fact, we agree with the very point that we ourselves introduced it as a concept. Back then, when we had the narrow Left Government in 2015, when we also negotiated development strategy, as we are about to do here again, we actually invented the concept of something for something. I was in the negotiations myself and can still remember which parties were happy about it and which parties were not happy about it, but things can change. That is why we are now where a broad group of parties support that concept, and that is, of course, the way it should be. That is why I am also pleased that during our reign, even when the VLAK government came to power, we simply arranged to negotiate with a large number of countries and, of course, achieved good results, among other things. with Somalia, Ethiopia. So all in all, it was actually really positive. The question of where it is, it has to go from concept to something that means that we can just vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, as it is here from the Danish People's Party, is of course about automation. Iraq has already been discussed a great deal. We will be very, very sorry if aid to Iraq disappears during the end of the year or something like that. The situation in Iraq is so fragile that we need us to still be there to make stabilisation efforts, not least for the sake of our own security in Denmark. We all know how and how, unfortunately, the Islamic State has still not lost a hundred percent from the earth's surface. They're still operating away at a terrorist level. We are also experiencing internal tensions. We are also seeing Iran operating in a completely insanely destabilising way in Iraq, and that is why we simply need to do everything we can to ensure that the government that is still relatively new to it came to last May has all the tools to ensure that Iraq does not embark on a destabilising course, because it would only be totally counterproductive in our foreign and security policy if it were to happen. I would therefore strongly recommend that we have a dialogue about this, because I think we have a broad majority, at least a relatively broad majority, in the Folketing, which supports this as a concept, and that we find out whether we cannot find each other in any other way, because we do not really believe that we are so far apart. That is why we are only pleased that the current government has followed up the good trends that we started in our time. I think that's what I'm gonna start by saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505104633	Then there is a question from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505104637	Now I know that it is not modern to think about history and to think longer than 3-4 years back in Danish politics, but I do it sometimes anyway. Now I understand from the rapporteur of the Left that it is not a principle that they should be returned. It depends a little on the situation and whether it fits in with our foreign policy. I would just like to remind you that in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s I took part in several debates with the left, which said: we will never be dealing with refugees for aid, because it is simply in our view of what development aid is. When did the Left change its policy in this area, and especially why?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505104723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505104727	I must admit that I have only been a member of the Left since 1990. So I can only remember those years ago, I must admit. And that is why I can just say that in those years when I have had something to do with the Left, and I have been sitting in the Folketing for 16 years, this has actually been our policy: to ensure that we have to help refugees as close to their home countries as possible, while at the same time ensuring that if you have rejected asylum seekers, then you have rejected asylum seekers and that is why we have always looked at what tools we can use to ensure that this happens. And that's why I was happy as a negotiator on behalf of the Left in 2015 or 2016, I think it was that for the first time we introduced this as a concept in the development strategy that we had at that time. So, frankly, this has been our policy for many years. What it has been in the 1970s and 1980s, I have to say fairly that I simply do not know.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505104825	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505104829	Well, the rapporteur says so himself: it is a principle that was introduced in 2015. Before that, the Left would not degrade itself to start trading with people and development aid. And I have been happy about that, and I have also highlighted the party's position in this area in many debates. I just want to ask: why did the party change politics in 2015? Now we got a year on this policy with something for something, that is to say a relativist development aid that can be used for anything. Why, then, did it do so at this time instead of sticking to a humanistic attitude that development aid is about helping poor people to a better life?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505104905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505104908	First of all, we have not changed our mind. Because what I was trying to explain to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur was that we are constantly looking at what tools we need to achieve the objective we have, namely that rejected asylum seekers must, of course, go home because they are rejected. I would also like to say, on the whole question of development aid, that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is, after all, the development rapporteur himself, as I remember it, and that is why the rapporteur knows very well that development aid is not the same thing as humanitarian aid. For us, therefore, there is a great difference between humanitarian or development aid, that is, long-term development aid. And therefore what Enhedslisten is trying to do here, the little is to mix apples and pears together. Sorry, but it is. And I'm sorry I used an English expression. I meant, of course, sorry, and not sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505104944	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505104953	I also like the story very much, but I don't think it's quite the same as Mr. Thompson. Christian Juhl. However, I would also like to hear the rapporteur of the Left on this more fundamental view of development aid. Because if it is about ensuring that people do not move and that we can therefore protect Denmark from harmful immigration from Muslim countries, then we are very, very much in agreement. But is there any evidence that development aid given from the West to, for example, the United States? Africa or countries elsewhere in the last few generations should have led to such long-term positive economic development? Did Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen knowledge of studies that illustrate it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505105036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505105040	After all, many different studies have been carried out in this area, and I also know that there are differences of opinion on what this means and does not mean in terms of corruption and job creation and everything else. If you go in and look at, for example. A country such as Mali, where, during our reign, we introduced a specific policy of going in and being job-creating and creating small and medium-sized enterprises, etc., there are various studies that show the positive effect that this has on, for example, small and medium-sized enterprises. migrants who have travelled through Mali have just stopped and said: okay, here are some job opportunities, so now we are not risking our lives in terms of going up north and crossing the Mediterranean, etc. So, yes, there are actually different studies. I must admit that I do not know the titles of the studies here on the stand, but there are studies.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505105118	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505105121	Well, I think that sir... Michael Aastrup Jensen is right. I mean, not all development projects are failing. You can, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen did not confirm that when economics professor in Aarhus Martin Paldam set out to review the reports that evaluate this widely, it was up to 80% that turned out not to have had any long-term economic impact on the recipient countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505105144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505105148	And that is exactly what I meant by differences of opinion. Because, yes, I can easily remember the debate with professors Martin Paldam, and I would also just like to say that there are widely differing views on his study. And that is why it is clearly the position of the Left that long-term development aid is really, really good, but that, of course, it cannot stand alone, and that is the whole point, and perhaps that is also what I feel and could understand at Professor Paldam's point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505105212	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. And the next rapporteur, who is ready, is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505105242	Thank you. This resolution can of course be described as a DF Classic. Of course, sometimes parties make resolutions to discuss their policy, but the answer from my side will also be a SF Classic, and it is, of course, that long-term development aid is about poverty reduction. It is about human development, and it is not about instrumentalising it in relation to a domestic political situation in Denmark, and we therefore, of course, reject this motion for a resolution, which I do not think is necessarily a surprise to the authors of the motion. The greater discussion in this, I think, is actually this about what is the purpose of development aid, and for us it is • and it is perhaps naive • to create a better world. Do we then create a better world by creating conditionality, which is about, for example, taking x number of rejected asylum seekers to a country? I do not think that is necessarily what makes the difference in order to create the better world and combat inequality. I do not think that this is where we are going to touch what we see as the purpose of development aid. We continue to put conditionality into development aid, we continue to instrumentate it on the basis of what we have, in other words that we have to export more from Danish companies, or that we have to get rid of rejected asylum seekers, or that we have to... I hope that in the negotiations that are about to start on the development policy strategy, we will find the core of what development policy is, namely to create a better world, and that will be my very simple message here today, and we will vote against the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505105443	There is a question from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505105446	I'd say, uh, maybe, uh... maybe, uh... maybe, uh... maybe, uh... maybe, uh... maybe, uh... maybe, uh... maybe, uh... maybe, uh... maybe, uh... maybe, uh... maybe, uh, maybe, uh... maybe, uh... maybe, uh, maybe, uh... maybe, uh, maybe, uh.... maybe, uh.... Rasmus Nordqvist then will also call it a little naive that I completely share the charge. My errand, from getting up in the morning until I go to bed in the evening, is also to create a better world, and some of what I have been struck by when I look around the world is how very often there is a coincidence between the culture on which a country is based and the success of that country. It is quite obvious that the countries based on an Islamic culture are democratic bankrupt citizens, they are economically failed states, and they are basic countries in which you do not want to live, and that is why a lot of people are trying to get out of them. Then Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist agrees with me that if we want to create a better world, a good place to start would be to stop and counteract Islam's expansion?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505105536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505105540	No, I really can't agree with that. I think it is important to look at the fact that when you look at countries from which there are people fleeing, for example, it is about resource scarcity. It can be natural resources, just something like water. It is about conflicts, which in turn also very often occur due to lack of resources. So, no, I think that these are quite other things that lie in this, and again I just have to separate the discussion on long-term development aid. Because it should not be taken hostage in everything else, but it is about people and it is about combating poverty, and fortunately we have been good at pulling people out of poverty over recent years. So much has unfortunately collapsed here during the coronapandemic, but it's just the focus, and I think it's important to focus on it when we talk development aid, and not to do this with: How about and how about? But it's about people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505105635	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505105639	I would just like to help people, for example. women who live in oppression because of mad faith, legitimising the abuse of men. I would like to set people free to democracy, including those people who, because of faith, live in the belief that it is God who has made the laws and that therefore human democratically adopted laws have no legitimacy. I would also like to help countries gain access to more resources, and I therefore look with love and admiration at Israel, which, in the midst of a desert, has caused water to pop up, has created industry and agriculture, etc., while the Muslim countries around them are characterised by internal conflicts and lack of democracy and lack of economic development. That's why I'm just gonna have to ask sir. Rasmus Nordqvist once again, if he cannot see that there is a connection between the countries that are worth living in, where one can offer one's citizens democracy, freedoms, welfare, growth, and then Islam. Islam is precisely opposed to this and, therefore, if you want the freedom to spread, you have to push back the expansion of Islam.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505105737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505105740	No, I cannot do that again, and it is funny that the questioner highlights a country which is then also occupying power over the West Bank and Gaza and which ensures that there is no water for farmers, for example there. But I have to say that I find it interesting to hear this argument from the Danish People's Party, which at the same time has a proposal which can be described as a little state-authorized trafficking in human beings, that is to say that there is money for people. It's a little funny when you hear the argument from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505105808	Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505105812	Now it gets me a little out of the chair, because I have the notion that it should actually be trafficking in human beings, what we are doing is still violent words, excuse me. Does the rapporteur not agree with me that one of the biggest problems in terms of ensuring growth in, for example, African countries are that they are depopulated at the moment? There are very, very many people who can do something and want something that tries happiness in other countries. They travel either legally or illegally. Does the rapporteur not agree that if we are also to help in the long run, it is also a question of citizens having to return again to have something to look forward to? This is among other things. That is why we also have long-term development aid with job creation and everything else. So back to the heart: these are rejected asylum seekers, that is, they are not entitled to stay. They have to go back. So if Danish taxpayers are to be used to help this country to have a future, surely we must also be able to make demands, and then it does not help that those who have to live on the future are still away in our country at the taxpayers' expense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505105910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505105913	No, I think it is quite wrong, because of course rejected asylum seekers should go back. Every country has responsibility for its own citizens and has a duty to welcome its own citizens. Just as Denmark has responsibility for Danish citizens, other countries have, of course, also. Where the film breaks for me is when you say: we are making a conditional effort to work on long-term development, the fight against poverty, which states that these citizens must be withdrawn, because then, in fact, I think it is to start to compromise with it on long-term development. That long-term development aid can then be a tool for us to have a dialogue with countries and thus to see how we can make it easier for the citizens who have been rejected here to be properly taken into consideration so that they can have a decent life with human rights and so on. where they come back to is something else. But the conditionality seems to me to be completely mistaken, and if Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen remembers the negotiations on development strategy, by Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen also states that it is not new tones from the SF or from my side.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505110013	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505110016	I can confirm that, but I always hope for better times, which is why I will always try to see if I can convert anyone, and that is why we come back to the whole core. I believe that there are a great many Danes who cannot understand that with one hand we need Danish tax dollars to help that country, but at the same time the country can say: we do not want our own citizens back. They may not be entitled to stay there, but we will still say no. And that means that with the other hand we pay the citizens of their country that they can still be away in Denmark, even if they do not actually have a right of residence. That is where I think the film breaks for a large number of Danes, and that is why I believe and hope that in the negotiations that will start soon it will still be a concept, that is, as a concept and as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505110059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505110101	It may well be that some people are left with that picture, and that is because the debate on what long-term development aid is has been moved. That is actually why I have tried to ask back what is the purpose of long-term development; instead of running the debate off the rails with resolutions like this today. It is going to be about something other than what it really is. Then I think there are Danes left thinking about taking their own citizens back: let us remember to look inwards too; we have Danish citizens who we refuse to go home.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505110129	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505110150	Thank you. I really appreciate this discussion, because we have had a development; and I know it's a shame if you don't remember that you then remind people of the history of their own party. I keep doing that because I think it is important to study these things, and it is also important to see how things develop. Since the 1970s, and especially with Christian Kelm-Hansen from the Social Democratic Party, who has been so much the one who got the whole principle of having development aid and why we must have it, namely in order to combat poverty and inequality, we have agreed across parties that it was about either solidarity, that is, building democracy, fewer poor people, greater equality, education, health, human rights, and that it is for the mutual benefit of the countries that provide and the countries that receive. Solidarity does not just mean that we are giving something. We give something to make a better world. We give something to get some good partners etc. Some have said: No, we support because development aid is also a kind of soft security policy; where coercion and military cannot provide solutions, we can use it to promote our foreign policy views in the soft way. Some would like to see Christian neighbourly love; that is why the Christian Democrats, who have not been in the Folketing for a long time, were very active in supporting Danish development aid, and also that it increased beyond the 0.7%. Finally, there are the Conservatives who said that development aid was such a kind of business concern, so we can get some to trade with and find some places where we can get back a little return rates, as they called it, that is, part of the development aid that had a surplus in our business. But there has always been agreement that the cynical trafficking in human beings, the inhumane something for something-principle did not belong in Danish development policy until approx. 2000, when the Danish People's Party started using that slogan. Fortunately, most decent parties also said in the beginning that it was quite unacceptable to look at things like this: you cannot trade with people, you cannot trade with development policy, so we reject that. We have also had to say along the way that development aid can also be used for humanitarian interventions when people are on the run, to ensure that they return to a good life, perhaps where they have lived, or at least near where they have lived. This means that we should actually help with education and health in the camps to a much greater extent than we are doing at the moment. So I would say that the position of the Danish People's Party is spreading. I am sorry to have to admit it, and I find it embarrassing, especially for the old government-leading parties, that they have taken over the Danish People's Party's something for something-policy; an inhuman and implemented cynical policy where you trade with people who are on the run and often force them back to places where they do not want to be at all. And then you make the policy that Denmark is pursuing relativistly. If it is Denmark itself that has some citizens in a country, then you will not accept them, but you will force other countries to accept their own citizens if they are to receive development aid. I do not understand how a decent and humane country such as Denmark could have come this far by pursuing such a policy. I would like to say that there are many examples to talk about. When the Minister says directly in his speech that there are satisfactory conditions in Myanmar, I have told him that I do not think there is. It is quite strange that we sometimes want to send people home to places where they can't feel safe too to Syria now. It is quite, quite unacceptable that we should now try to convince the Danes that there is security in Syria. You can just ask the Kurds, and you can just ask the international organisations, because then you know that it is simply on the edge and that there will certainly be plenty of situations where governments must apologize for sending them home and that some of them may have died of it or suffered harm. India would like to have one person sent to India, namely a Dane, but there we have said no, because we do not have confidence in the legal system they have in India. How can we then accept that Indian citizens should be forced to be sent home to India? That is why I say that it is a double standard and simply a double standard that we are now building up here. In Denmark we must be allowed to do what suits us; the others just have to dance after our whistle if they want some money.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505110654	Thank you. There are a few questions. The first is from sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505110658	I don't think it was a coincidence; I really think it was sir. Christian Juhl's subconscious, who appeared for a short second when he said that what we want is to force people back to countries where they do not want It is quite a revealing quote, because Danish immigration policy, the world's immigration policy, must be geared to where people want No, of course that is not the case. I certainly understand that if you were born in Ramallah or in India or in one of the other countries that have failed for various, mainly cultural reasons, then you would not want to, Mr President. Christian Juhl, that Denmark has an obligation then to open its doors. I just want to ask you this: Christian Juhl is so concerned that the Danish People's Party's line in this policy has spread to other parties, will he acknowledge that Enhedslisten's responsibility for the failed immigration policy is probably the reason why most others have gradually awakened with the dandruff falling from their eyes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505110802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505110804	To the end: no, because I do not believe that our policy is a failed policy. On the contrary, it is a policy in which there are prospects for developing the world instead of this. The Danish People's Party wants a rebellion against Islamic dictatorship, and so do I, but I am not making a single change by forcing people back to those countries where they do not want to live. On the contrary, if I supported the opposition in those countries and helped inspire opposition, that people dare to rebel against those countries, then I am creating a new situation. Danish development aid does so partly because we support the civil societies that want to promote democracy and human rights, and that is where I see the seeds of the rebellion, and not in the incredibly many different models of coercive measures that the Danish People's Party has been talking about just in the last few weeks, when we have had to discuss all sorts of nuances of this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505110903	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505110906	It is absolutely true that with this policy we are not directly rebelling against Islamism in the countries concerned, but Mr. After all, Christian Juhl's party has a large share of responsibility for the fact that Islamism has moved into Denmark. That's sir. Christian Juhl's party, which has insisted that, for example, people should be given the right to vote in local elections. must also give citizenship to people who belong to all sorts of crazy sects such as Hizb ut-Tahir, and what do I know, people who do not support Denmark. It's sir. Christian Juhl's party, which prevents us from depriving them of the right of birth again. It's sir. Christian Juhl's party, which makes it possible to shoot mosques, conducted by Erdogan down in Constantinople, like amphibians around the country. Will Mr. Christian Juhl does not at all accept responsibility for the disastrous line of foreign policy that he and his party and the other left have represented?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505110949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505110952	Now I have much more confidence in the Danish legal system and the Danish way of working and the people who live in the country than the Danish People's Party has. After all, they have a disastrous fear that these people would destroy our society. I haven't. We have quite effective systems to intervene against people who do not act within the framework of the law. However, I would like to take a step further, namely to start playing an active role in undermining the dictatorships around the world, instead of just saying that they have to leave our country and then close their eyes. Less development aid is also the policy of the Danish People's Party. It is so bloodless and so pointless that it will never produce results in this area. After all, we can continue to see people flee forever, and that is where we must try to change the structures of the world. We must try to change the dictatorships, and that is why we must increase our development aid, not lower it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505111048	Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505111052	I must admit that I have also been a little shocked by what the parliamentary basis of the government now stands and says on the platform. Now the Enhedslisten rapporteur has said twice that the Enhedslisten will not force people to travel to that country, even if they are rejected asylum seekers. That means that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is actually saying that they are approx. 760 million people living in the world live below the UN poverty line, which is approx. $2 a day, really has every chance to get to Denmark. Because once they've come to Denmark, the Enhedslisten will probably do everything they can to ensure that the Social Democratic Government doesn't send these people back, even though the vast majority of these people aren't going to be entitled to asylum at all. That is what Enhedslisten's rapporteur says. This means that Enhedslisten's rapporteur is really opening the door to everyone and says: OK, now everyone can come up here, because all 760 million people will of course think that living at an exit centre in Denmark would be happiness compared to what they are living under today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505111144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505111147	It is not so difficult to build up an argument on a strawman. I would say that I am arguing that we should help the poorest in the world with development. We must help the world's poorest people to have human rights, to have dictators removed so that they can live a good life in their country. We must also help the people who are on the run in a better way than we are now, otherwise the alternative is that they come here. My whole argument is about people having a good life where they are. People must have better opportunities to develop both their country and their own personal relationships. We are not giving that help at the moment because the Danish People's Party is so pushing both the Left and the Socialists to keep development aid down to the lowest possible level. That's one thing. The second point is that everything else unauthorized must be financed by development aid. And that means less development. And that is why the rapporteur on the Left must listen when I speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505111248	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505111251	That's what I'm trying to do, but I'm afraid it doesn't make much sense. And that is why I am asking that we, for example. It should be at the lowest possible level in terms of development aid. What, according to Enhedslisten, is the lowest possible means that we are in top five of all the world's countries. I repeat again: top five of all countries in the world. It's the lowest possible for the Enhedslisten. So it doesn't make sense. Nor does it make sense that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur will not respond to what the Enhedslisten's rapporteur has now said up to several times, namely that it will not force rejected asylum seekers to go home. That will precisely create the scenario that I have set up, which is why I would just like to ask once again for a clear answer from the Enhedslisten: Will the Enhedslisten demand that rejected asylum seekers should of course go home, also by forcing them on board an aircraft?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505111334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505111335	I would like to send a lot of rejected asylum seekers back to their countries, especially if we can create a background and an opportunity for them to help create a better and more democratic country. The forced regime currently under way by the Left only creates enemies of Denmark. It's something that goes without saying. It is even worse with the Danish People's Party's refugee and alien policy. It creates enemies of Denmark, and in the old days we tried to make friends and create development with development aid, but we are doing so. And I would say that if you're proud of 0.7 percent, we can wait a long time to develop the world. It is really a problem that the world's richest will not pay enough for development aid. We have to go much higher, including Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505111424	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. And after a despriting, we go to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Marcus Knuth, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505111450	Thank you, sir. President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for another really relevant proposal taken from the Social Democratic Party's proposal • Righteous and realistic • an alien policy that brings together Denmark • from 2018. I'm beginning to think, and sir can. Mr Messerschmidt may just correct that we are up to about motion for a resolution No. Fifteen, inspired by the election of the Social Democratic Party, where the Social Democratic Party has still not delivered on their electoral vows. There are many other interesting things about border controls and expulsions and citizenships. However, this is a little more nuanced, because we Conservatives share the view, and I think that is also the wording of the proposal that we should not, as a starting point, give development aid to countries that do not accept their own citizens. Iraq, in particular, jumps into the eye when one considers how much we have contributed and contributed and fought and softened to try to create democracy in Iraq. Then it makes no sense that Iraq will not accept their own citizens, whom we want to expel here from Denmark. However, I would like to say that there is no snatching solution. It was also a challenge facing our previous government, and the programmes that we have in Iraq are part of a greater peace and stability effort which we believe makes a difference, not least in terms of the fight against terrorism and in terms of stability. That is why I would once again call on the Minister to seek cooperation with other like-minded countries: Great Britain, Norway, the Netherlands, to put extra pressure on Iraq. It is still unclear to me whether any of these countries are successful in sending citizens back to Iraq. It could be very interesting to find out. So we Conservatives support the wording of what is stated in the comments in the motion for a resolution, namely that Denmark, as a starting point, does not provide development aid to countries that do not accept their own citizens. However, there may be exceptions, especially if, as the Minister says, there is actually progress in the negotiations with Iraq. If there isn't, it might be another case. However, we cannot support the wording on the front page of the resolution, which says that all development aid to such countries must stop in this Assembly. So we hope to find a balance in this in the forthcoming committee debate with the Danish People's Party and other good parties in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505111706	There is a question from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505111707	No, that is a short comment. I would say that one of those who has defended, at least for decades, humanitarian, poverty-oriented and development-based aid is Mr. Per Stig Møller, who is a member of the same party as the rapporteur. I would guess that when he sees how the fine and good principles he has helped to build up for 30, 40 years in the field of Danish development aid, he is now to be rejected because of a principle that is called something for something and because of cynical trafficking in human beings. I really don't have any questions. It is very clear what the rapporteur is telling us about the shift in Conservative development policy over these years, and that is sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505111758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505111759	Well, I do not think there has been any change, and I am glad that there is a very wide range of parties in this Chamber that share the basic starting point, so that we should not give development aid to countries that we have contributed to just take Iraq; we have contributed so much to Iraq, but they will not receive their own citizens, whom we do not consider to have a need for protection. It's all just a question of fairness. And as Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen said: this principle is something that was actually introduced by a blue government not so long ago, and it is something that the Social Democrats now generally support, and something that is again promoted by the Danish People's Party. So it is not because the Conservative People's Party goes on its own here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505111843	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505111844	Well, now, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen would like to explain that I do not want to send people home. I think it is absolutely right to use international rules to ensure that each country can provide its own, but I think it is cynical and unproductive to use development aid and something for something. That is not the purpose of development aid; on the contrary, it may seem counterproductive to start dealing with people in this way. Returning is one thing; development aid is a completely different thing. And in this way, we are undermining the good principles of development aid and helping to use it in relation to DF's agenda, and I find it sad when Conservatives join it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505111925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505111925-2	Just to repeat: I don't think this is DF's agenda. It is an agenda that has the support of a wide range of parties. And if anyone, it is the country of Iraq that behaves very unsolidarously, if I may use that word, by receiving so much help, support and military assistance from Denmark and then will not even receive the citizens that we clearly consider do not have a need for protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505111948	There are no more questions. Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The Liberal Alliance is not present in the Chamber, so we go to New Citizens. It's sir. Mr Lars Boje Mathiesen as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505112004	I don't want to corrupt the President, but we're in New Citizens, too, bigger than the Liberal Alliance. That fg. Excuse me. I just turned around on the order. It was wishful thinking for the Liberal Alliance). That's perfectly understandable. That's the way it is sometimes. Unfortunately, our rapporteur could not be here today, so I have promised to address the matter. In new citizens, we want to abolish development aid. Development aid is, at best, a waste of money and, at worst, a direct counter-productive one. In 1960, Denmark granted a hospital to Congo in connection with their independence. This should prove to be an arch-typical example of Danish development aid. Modern buildings included equipment and staff for the operation, chief doctors and nurses and technical staff. The idea was that after an appropriate transition, the Congolese would take over this where they had been trained and acquired different skills, but it was not long before the cooperation collapsed. The contract with Denmark was terminated, the Danish staff returned. After a short time the hospital was a ruin: no cleaning, no maintenance, all equipment and fixtures were gone. Unfortunately, this is not a unique example of what is happening with Danish development aid, and history is not unique. There are people who have dealt with this. A professor Martin Paldam from Aarhus University has researched extensively in the development economy, and he believes, for example, that assistance has a very poor effect at most and, at worst, is directly harmful. The same conclusion actually reaches the Nobel Prize-winning American-British economist, Angus Deaton. That is why we have to ask ourselves: why is this even being given here? Is it to help, or is it to feel that you're helping? We are not afraid to answer that question in New Citizens, which is why we want to stop Danish development aid immediately and give the money back to the Danes. Unfortunately, we have this wish on our own. Today there is a majority in the Danish Parliament who is willing to spend a two-digit billion dollar of Danish tax dollars on development aid, which is at best a waste of money and, at worst, even harmful to the people of the countries that are on the aid. We have to note that a majority in the Folketing seems to think it is more important to feel good than to do something that is right. The proposal we are debating today is a proposal to stop development aid, but only to those countries which refuse to accept their own citizens. And with the proposal the Danish People's Party wants to use development aid as a means of forcing developing countries to take back those of their own citizens who have either been rejected or expelled from Denmark. The reason for the proposal is that too many foreigners without legal residence in Denmark are staying at Danish exit centres for years, often to the great inconvenience of the surrounding community, which is hit by theft, burglary and vandalism. This is an entirely untenable situation. This increases both the incentives for welfare migrants to apply to Denmark and the incentives for aliens to leave, and this must, of course, be corrected. In new citizens, we believe that foreign policy must be resolved from the bottom up. The last few decades have been a patch solution to patching up, and it is of course a little comfort that we haven't hit Swedish conditions yet, but we are on our way there and we need to look after Denmark. It is therefore clear that when a foreigner is expelled or rejected from Denmark, he must leave, and if he cannot, he must stay in an exit centre where there is only one door: out of Denmark. The proposal we are debating today will not send back to the Danes all the billions we are wasting on development aid, as has already been said, nor will it ensure that all developing countries take their citizens back, but it is, after all, far better than the current state of affairs, and that is why, of course, we are voting in favour of the proposal in New Citizens. Nor can we imagine that there are responsible civil parties who actually believe that they will protect Danish tax dollars which will not be able to support the proposal. We also believe that it is time for politicians to put action behind their words. Often we hear a lot of plunder to the voters about what to do if you gained power. Now the Social Democrats have the power, and then it is only fair that the people can expect them to live up to what they promised the electorate, and then I think it is wonderful and appropriate that the Folketing should ask the government whether it intends to live up to its promises to the electorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505112447	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505112451	The rapporteur is right about one thing: the hospital we heard about is not the only thing. That's right. There are five, perhaps ten white elephants around the world, who have been scandals. One of the largest was FLSmidth, who was to build a cement factory. At that time, the majority of the Folketing assumed that such a large company should be able to go out into the world and help the Vietnamese build a cement factory. It didn't work out. There was a ruin out there for many years, which never turned into a cement factory because one did not understand that it takes much more development than just to build a house to create change in a society. It is possible that Paldam has some ideas that are in line with those of New Citizens, but that does not change the fact that they are wrong. And I am pleased that two researchers can be mentioned as long as only two researchers can be mentioned. Fortunately, research is something that many researchers are concerned with, including research into development aid. I just want to say that my practical experience from 30 years of development of civil society organisations and trade unions has produced results. Some of the organisations have overturned dictators, others are currently in government and are creating welfare societies in their country because they received support from the outset, among others. from my union. So there are plenty of good examples of development aid being useful.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505112622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505112623	Yes, I don't think I'm going to take the advice of a communist on how to develop societies in a more prosperous direction, so I'm gonna take that quite quietly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505112635	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Christian Juhl one more question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505112639	Now the rapporteur spoke so low that I could not hear it at all, but perhaps it did not matter. I would like to say that what reassures me is that, year after year since the 1970s, the Danes have given massive support to Danish development aid. After all, the Danish People's Party and New Citizens can fight for the remaining percentages that are not satisfied that we are spending money on development aid. The Danes have realized that it benefits to settle conflicts and create more equality and fewer poor people in the world. It benefits Denmark, and it benefits the countries where we work, and it has had a huge, huge effect that not only Denmark, but a number of countries provide development aid. Hopefully more will be paid.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505112730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505112730-2	I simply do not know what kind of reality the rapporteur is living in. Try to look at African societies, look at those dictators down there and the luxury that they live in. That's where these development crowns go. Otherwise, they wouldn't have their gold-plated cars and their private jets and everything else. That's where the money goes. And when you give so much money that a society can be built on charity, you ensure that the power regimes are not dependent on the citizens of society, because they just get the money anyway, and then they should not treat the citizens properly. And that reminds us precisely of communist societies, where there was also just a power elite who was completely indifferent to the citizens and their rights. That is what we are getting with socialist and communist thinking; that is what has happened in African regimes. That's probably why Enhedslisten thinks it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505112820	Yes, please! We thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then I thought I saw, sir. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance was present in the Chamber. Can we have a look in the back if he's in there? He must be given the opportunity to speak if he wishes and if that is why he was present in the Chamber. I guess so. No, okay, then we'll go over to sir's. Jens Rohde for the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505112916	I'll also wait by the phone for your answer, sir. Henrik Dahl. Well, as the only bourgeois party in this country, we want to go in exactly the opposite direction. We want to increase development aid quite considerably. In our 2030 plan, we have set EUR 3.5 billion. kr. extra for development assistance. It is not even enough to achieve the objective that we have over time that we have to reach 1%. After all, it is not all about money, and that is why it is very important for things to be separated, because development aid goes precisely to what the Minister said and which I was pleased to see Mr. Rasmus Stoklund mentioned in his reply to me and to several others, namely to develop these countries so that there will be a perspective for the people who live there, so that it among other things. can prevent the migration, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is so worried about and, of course, we also have to worry about both internally in the poor areas, in third world countries, and also externally, that is, what affects us. We often forget the debate on internal migration, which is also pushing certain areas quite considerably. A good example is that in Kenya we have the Dadaab camp, which the Kenyan Government would very much like to close. It's made for 90,000 people, I guess. 470,000 people in that camp today. We cannot think of the Kenyan Government as saying: why do we have to sit with them? It's mainly Somalis sitting there. And you can then understand the Somali Government, when previous governments are now not sure what contacts the current government has with the Somali Government.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If there is, then the Kenyans have another argument for closing the Dadaab camp, and then we will really see problems and large streams of refugees, because then blood will flow. It's all these little things that come up all the time that you have to bring into the jigsaw puzzle when you're discussing this. Since 2000, we have had a Cotonou Agreement which actually expired last year, I think it was. I would like to ask the Minister how he is doing with a replacement to the Cotonou Agreement. It is, of course, the agreement between Europe and the ACP countries that we have actually had colonial power over, and also the Caribbean; it is the ACP countries. All those countries are part of the Cotonou Agreement. And when we have a Cotonou agreement with them, it is also about the responsibility that we have historically for the developments that have taken place in those countries, not least the colonial powers. The historical responsibility we have to take with us when discussing development aid and when discussing partnership agreements, because of course there must also be counter-requisites in partnership agreements. That is also true today of politics, good governance, economics, trade. It would also be fair to add another pillar to such a partnership agreement, namely the management of migration. There's nothing wrong with that. But when we come here with such a little mastermind mentality and say: If you do not do as we say, then we punish you and we will end up in a counterproductive situation, which in the end can also cost us dearly, but which, after all, is simply not humanly worthy. Development aid creates development. After all, the vast majority of money goes to NGOs; they do not go to dictatorial regimes. The biggest problem with development aid today is surely basically that more and more of the money intended for long-term projects is being converted into emergency aid in the neighbourhood areas, and that is not because I am speaking against emergency aid, because it must certainly be there, but the problem is that the effect of long-term projects is being removed because money is being transferred to emergency aid. We're gonna have to talk about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505113441	Thank you. There are some questions, and the first is from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505113445	Actually, I just want to say thank you, sir. Jens Rohde, because he highlights the two most important connections there are. If you take out long-term development aid, you risk more refugees, and if you take out long-term development aid, you risk more conflicts in the world. I would also like to congratulate the Christian People's Party. Jens Rohde It's been a few years since we called it). The Christian Democrats, as they are called today, I would also like to say a little historical about this, have insisted without delay that we should have a high level of development aid in Denmark. Of course for Christian neighbourly love reasons, which the Danish People's Party, which otherwise prides itself on being Christians, has not understood at all. There I think it is commendable that a bourgeois party is so opposed to the storms and adheres to universal humanist principles which lie in development aid, but which can also easily accommodate what the rapporteur points out: mutual agreements, partnership agreements, which have requirements both ways. That is what I call solidarity, because solidarity goes both ways; we benefit from it and we give something.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505113556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505113558	Well, is it okay if I just answer that I agree?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505113605	Sir. Christian Juhl doesn't want any more questions? Jens Rohde Speaking of stormy, can I say I'm probably the right person to stand up to them? At least I have been through a few in my time as a politician). That's good. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505113619	In fact, I would have asked for something quite different, but as a result of the small exchange with Mr. I should like to hear something from Christian Juhl here, because the answer was quite brief. Mr. Jens Rohde, that development aid is a matter that can be confused with the concept of neighbourly love?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505113636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505113637	Not politically. It is an ethical consideration, and you can go into that, but that's not what this is all about in this context. For us, it is about creating a development in the world that is also in our own interests, but of course it is also about human dignity and a principle that we, as the richest, some of the richest in this world, should of course also look to other places in the world where you do not feel so well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505113722	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505113724	Should, says Mr. Jens Rohde. We are therefore morally obliged to do so. But now the very brief answer to Mr. Christian Juhl, for from where Mr. Jens Rohde, that this obligation stems? I would like to hear a complete rejection of the fact that one can support a development policy in the Bible and the message of love for one's neighbor, otherwise it is not very Christian.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505113758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505113759	I would very much like to enter into a major theological discussion with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. I have understood, if we shall at last, at the Danish People's Party that almost only, as Mrs Marie Krarup says, is the person standing right next to you. It is the theological, Christian entrance that the Danish People's Party has taken. I very much disagree with that. In fact, I also very much disagree that this is what Jesus preached. What is wrong with the Christian view in the Danish People's Party is that concepts such as forgiveness, mercy, mercy are non-existent.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505113840	Yes, thank you. And I have to say that this was a question which cannot be answered in 30 seconds. It'll take longer. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505113853	I understand from the rapporteur that there is a distinction between whether you have a decent development policy and you are a decent person looking out, or not, whether development aid is 0.7 per cent. or at 1%. Is that it? Or where is it? Because if you look at KD's 2030 plan, you will be heading for 1%, i.e. that you don't reach 1%. But is it then at 0.8%?? And that's the difference from the 0.7%. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Or it'll be fine if it lands on the 0.8%.?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505113935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505113936	But Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen has to tell me where I have used the word decent.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505113946	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505113947	Yes, but at least the rapporteur criticises the current policy and says that development aid should be higher. And that means that it is a criticism and that it is believed that we should look more out. That is what the rapporteur said. And then I'm just asking where it is in relation to the amount of the 0.7%. to the 0.8%. or to the 0.85% that you then land on • that it changes from being awful to being good, if that's what you mean? Because it was said that the current level is not good enough and that you wanted to go higher. But why not 2%?? Why not 3%?? As the rapporteur said, we, as one of the richest societies, have an obligation to give more. Then why only that? Then why only 0.1%? More?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505114031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505114032	I haven't talked about being awful. I mean, I'm not judging other people. I'll tell you what our policy is. And then I'll tell you afterwards why it's our policy. And we have prioritised additional funds for development aid because we think that there is perspective in it. I didn't even talk about Mr. Simpson. Lars Boje Mathiesen's policy or that of others. I am confronted with something about neighbor love and Christian messages, and I answer that in that context. I have argued for what is in the development policy of the Christian Democrats, and I have not talked about anyone else who is horrible at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505114113	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. After a little despriting, Mr President, we shall move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. The alcoholizing of the platform is also neighbor love, because you make sure that the next one comes up to a clean desk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505114146	Thank you, President, and thanks to both parties and the Minister for having contributed to a, I think, enriching debate. It is, of course, a small odyssey around in the social democratic breach that we have set ourselves for, and now we have had to stop at one more of the points of the fine programme here, Justice and Realism, with Mrs Mette Frederiksen on the front page, then President of the Social Democratic Party and current Prime Minister. I understand the government's rejection of this proposal so that it is primarily about the time statement. It seems therefore that the end of this session may be too narrow a time limit for the implementation of the agreement with Iraq. That is how I understand it, and I accept that, of course. Too bad it is, of course, that we cannot then have another clarification, because then we could have changed the resolution, so we could have written before the end of the year or before the end of the government's lifetime. I'm full of creative suggestions to determine when we're gonna make this promise. Basically, it only makes very good sense that, of course, and especially as a country receiving money from Denmark, one has a legal and moral obligation to take home those citizens who are then not legally resident in Denmark and therefore are not the responsibility of the Danes, but rather the responsibility of Iraq, Iran or other countries. It is quite naturally connected to all the media that we have in the toolbox as a nation, in order to get countries to behave decently, morally and according to the rules. I even believe that the Minister mentioned the convention which specifically obliges countries to take their citizens home. One of the tools is, of course, the increasing amount of development aid. I think it is quite natural to have development aid on the Finance Act, when it is a tool that a large majority of the parliamentary parties want to maintain, whatever the purpose, that you then use it proactively, I think it is called in Nudansk, to ensure that we also get other parts of our policy through. Then you can have a discussion about what the credibility is in providing development aid. And it is quite obvious that there may be a gap down the hall here, perhaps where Mr. Jens Rohde is a small, short second and must change to the left, but he belongs on the right, I understand, but at least where the left is saying that it is about creating a better world, while in the bourgeois camp we say more that it is an instrument to ensure a better Denmark. But that does not necessarily mean that we get up in the morning and say: let us create a worse world. I think it is more likely to be said that we may see the world in a slightly more facetious way than the left, and we saw that particularly when the Socialist People's Party's rapporteur, who has probably gone to lunch or something, was speaking. For there was much talk about what this better world might be, but not so much about what structures and conditions around the world create a bad life. And that is a pity, because if you only have an eye to redistribute and transfer between countries, if it is 0.5%, 0.7 per cent. or 1%, and in this way move growth from one part of the world to another part of the world, but do not have so much understanding of what basic conditions make some countries fail, while other countries become successful, yes, how effective will the development instrument really be? Sir. After all, Jens Rohde mentioned a part of the story that can be used, at least as a picture of some of the basic conditions that have made some countries successful, while others are less successful. Sir. Jens Rohde spoke of colonial times, and it is quite true that those countries which, now, in another time, with a different view of life, with a different view of other people, succeeded in developing the economy, found out that trade was good, found that freedom was good, found that democracy was good, developed economically, too, and became the world's superstars, which, from the perspective of the time, could dominate others. What is paradoxical is that one has only understood the dominance, one has not understood what it was actually that created the imbalance and that the structures that created the imbalance back in the 14th, 15th and 16th centuries, Vasco da Gama etc. went out and discovered roads to distant parts of the world, still away controls and causes the inequalities which Mr. Christian Juhl would call what we have in the world. It is quite obvious that when there are countries where you cannot make a democratic outlook work, it has much to do with having a theocratic outlook that dominates. When there are countries where women are regarded as inferior to men, this is due to the fact that you can find the basis for it in some sacred writings that you think are more important and more important than what you can arrange with purely democratically. And, of course, you will not have a well-functioning market economy if you think that everything in society should be adapted to the Koran. That goes without saying. So if you want to create a better world, you also have to settle with the principles, with the beliefs and ideas that have created a worse world for at least the past 500 years. You haven't gotten that far in the SF. Worse still, sir. Christian Juhl and Enhedslisten, where you think it's all about where people want to be. In the Enhedslisten it is the dance of the mice on Helikon. There is only pleasure and joy, there is no duty and responsibility, there is only, what do I want to do today, how do I feel, what is my right. No duty, no bond, no responsibility. That is why it becomes so incredibly hypocritical and petty and socialist to hear Mr. Christian Juhl takes the concept of neighbourly love into his mouth. For what is neighbor love? Yes, it is precisely the living bond with another human being that one walks on one's way, sees a person who needs one's help, and of course jumps to, completely independent of what that person looks like, what language it speaks or how it is dressed. But in the hands of the Socialists, the love of neighbor to ideology becomes a principle in which both faith and ties and responsibility have been thrown away and have been ideologicalised into a project, for neighbourly love has suddenly turned into a project to save the world. It's not Christianity, sir. Christian Juhl, this is false socialism, and it belongs to the same category of ideological evil that has caused the countries I spoke of to collapse. That's why it was so interesting to hear Mr. Jens Rohde. I do not know whether it was the virginity of the Christian Democrats, I sincerely do not know, but it will be an exciting discussion about the Christian outlook on which Denmark is based and on which we all, although many of us have clearly been socialised over here into some form of ideological atheism by virtue of the cultural radicalism which Mr. Jens Rohde until recently subscribed to it, but I am also looking forward to examining it. The fact that Denmark is based on a basic Christian view of life cannot be interpreted as an obligation to send billions of cheques to distant regions, but it is, of course, a commitment first and foremost to the people with whom we share this country and to ensure that it is a better country that we pass on to the next generation that it is a country that we can see ourselves in that it is a country that we can call our homeland, and there is development aid, then an incredibly central tool. For development aid can be used precisely to ensure that the extremely damaging migrations which Denmark and the rest of the West have suffered, unfortunately, in recent generations, can be limited. And that is what we in the Danish People's Party want with development aid. That is why I am also pleased with the support that has been given to this proposal from the New Citizens' Party, from the Left, from the Conservatives. I do not know whether, perhaps with the considerations that have come from the platform, it is in fact better for us to formulate together in more detail the alternative that we represent to the socialists and that it is perhaps better in a report than just sitting and pressing the buttons. It sometimes becomes a bit monotonous when there are only three different colors on the screen. But we will have to discuss this in committee. At any rate, I am happy or half-happy to have received confirmation from the government that there is at least a plan to implement what has been promised to your electorate. I would perhaps be three quarters happy if you could also say something about when you expect it to be realized. But I'm really happy to have bourgeois friends who can work together, also on this important theme. So thank you for the debate and thank you, President, for the floor. This is not, of course, the last proposal in the odyssey of social democratic breaches that we will be dealing with. It's an exciting journey, and we have to move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505115131	Thank you. There are a number of questions, and the first is from Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505115136	Well, sir. Morten Messerschmidt is the world's best example of how you become everything you fight. All that, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt stands and accuses, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. to use a Christian outlook and his own position as a basis for an ideological debate. That's exactly it, sir. Morten Messerschmidt does. I am also looking forward to continuing these discussions, and we have had them over the years, they will be quite interesting. But what I don't understand is how you can think that it can't be a bourgeois stand and a bourgeois stand because I was just driven to the left by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt in his speech that you have a cosmopolitan consciousness. It is a contradiction of rank that bourgeois parties and not least Left and Conservatives over the years, like no one else, have brought the cosmopolitan world into the everyday lives of the Danes and today will not stand by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505115258	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505115259	First, when it comes to using Christianity: That's exactly what I didn't do. I said that Denmark is a Christian country. And the claim that we have as citizens of this country is to ensure that Denmark as a nation state with all the heritage, history and cultural tradition, including Christian faith, is and can be a fatherland also for generations after us, that is, not to say, to break up some kind of immigration, etc. So it was in relation to Christianity. So, in relation to the bourgeois parties and their failure to take cosmopolitan action: that is where I think it has to be said that all ideological parties are, in their basic essence, part of emancipation. After all, it is in thinking ideologically that you want to free yourself from something. The Socialists want to free people from classes. Citizens want to free people from the state, that is, some, at least liberals. That is why the Danish People's Party says that we are an anti-ideological party, because we believe that what is essential is to emphasise the bond with the surviving party, to the national, to the community and not the desire for freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505115408	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505115409	I am certainly not driven by any particular ideology either, because the problem of ideologies is that they give the answers in advance, and thus one is unable to reflect the world and take them in and then try to look at them. So we can all agree on that. I just don't agree with Mr. Simpson. Morten Messerschmidt in that he does not have a very ideological approach to it. But just to give an example of the Left as a party that has such ownership of the invention of the quota refugee concept, I would like to ask: what does that have to do with the left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505115449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505115450	Well, with all those parties, sir. Jens Rohde has been a member of, of course, he must, as a matter of fact, settle with them bilaterally, I think. But basically, I think it has to be said that an ideological confession must necessarily be a global or fundamental confession, because it is ideologically superior to the national one, that is to say, to the actual one. If you are an idealologist, you basically believe that an idea is true, is real, regardless of which country, at what time, in which cultural context it is being implemented. I'm not an idealist. I do not think Denmark is an ideology. I believe that Denmark is a family relationship, and it is precisely not the ideological one, it is not driven by brain and reason, it is driven by passion and heart.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505115533	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505115534	I've never used neighbor love as an argument. I leave that to those who know such concepts. I just explained that Danish development aid, as the rapporteur himself said, is carried by various arguments: solidarity, neighbourly love, business interests and everything else, and then the Danish People's Party came up with something for something - the principle at some point in time from the extreme right. For decades, there has been agreement to reject something for something. There is no longer, I understand, but I have not had the idea of using neighbourly love as a starting point for talking about development aid. I'm just saying that's an argument that some people use. The second is the question of desire. I want to work for a world where people like to live where they live and can have a good life and may think life is worth living. I think that all people have the right to live out if we can help them with it, and that is what I am trying to argue for. That is quite well described by Mr. Jens Rohde: If we allow people to develop, there is at least a chance that we have fewer refugees in the world and therefore fewer challenges in that respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505115655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505115656	I would say that Denmark was a happy, harmonious, peaceful and well-functioning legal society before Enhedslisten was invented, and there are plenty of countries around where you could have organized your everyday life, your lives with a far more noble purpose than Denmark. Then go to Tehran and fight the mullahs. Why don't you go to Saudi Arabia and fight the Saud family? Go to Venezuela... or maybe that's a bad example. But basically, we don't need you here. Pack up your revolution and find somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505115726	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505115728	Okay, not even Danes are allowed to live in Denmark anymore only if you are a real DF dancer. It's a mess now, I think. I would like to say that I have worked for both right and duty my whole life, and I have also worked to help the opposition in the countries mentioned by the rapporteur, even very actively. I have tried to strengthen the opposition in many dictatorships, to create trade unions so that people can live a good life. I have helped to build up co-operations and cooperatives because this is a good way forward. I will continue to do so, but I live in Denmark, I live in Denmark, and I think that Denmark is a good country, and I think that all of us who live in Denmark live a happy life. In fact, we should be happy about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505115812	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505115812-2	I have no animosity against the rapporteur personally; I have to say that. In fact, I would like to say that the rapporteur is perhaps one of those of the representatives of the left, whom I most value personally. But that doesn't change the fact that if you think that you are set in this world to create a better world with revolutionary initiatives, there are other countries that are more obvious to lay down their lives than Denmark, and instead of dedicating their work to move foreign peoples to Denmark, then Enhedslisten's storm troops could have moved their troops to other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505115848	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505115850	Thank you. First of all, I regret that we could not cover the Chamber today. We are suffering from illness, so our parliamentary group is only on two people who have to cover everything, so we have to be very tough in terms of our priorities. However, what makes me ask for the floor is that I should like to say that we also support the motion for a resolution, and I would like that to be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505115919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505115922	Disease is the master of every man... so it must be. That applies to all of us. In those circumstances, I just want to thank Mr. Henrik Dahl to appear in the Chamber today and thus express his support for the proposal. I can say that we, before Mr. Henrik Dahl just came, had a brief discussion on how best to show our common civil support for the proposal, on whether to make a report, whether to do so at second reading, and whether to vote, etc. I hope then that Mr. Henrik Dahl will be part of that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505115946	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt and to Mr. Henrik Dahl. I am sure that it will be recorded in the Minutes what Mr. Henrik Dahl has said in this regard. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505120029	So I would just like to say that the next item on the agenda, urgent question No. F 61, request to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration that the Damascus area is safe to return to for Syrian citizens will only be dealt with at 1 p.m. 13.00 in this Chamber. That is why I have to postpone the sitting until 8 a.m. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: F 61.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505130018	The sitting is resumed. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 6 May. First of all, Mrs Lund, the rapporteur of the questioners, for a explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505130057	I'm sure you've all read about Aya, who goes to high school in Nyborg and whose family has fled the Assad regime. You have read about Faeza, who is studying for a nurse, and who also stands to be expelled, despite the fact that Denmark lacks nurses, and despite the fact that it is not safe for her to be in Syria. Now she is to be separated from her family in Denmark and sent back. Unfortunately, these are not isolated cases. There are a great many people who have fled Syria and who now stand to be sent back and to lose their residence permit in Denmark. And it surprises us in the Enhedslisten that one can really judge that the situation in Syria is safe for these people. It also surprises us in the Enhedslisten that one would risk a situation where these people should rot in an exit centre, even if they could go to school, work and contribute to the Danish state. That is why we would like to ask the government: is the situation really safe in Syria? Is the government planning to cooperate with the Assad regime on a return agreement so these people don't have to sit in an exit center? And that's why we've called this inquiry debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505130221	Thank you for the explanatory statement. Then we get the answer, and that is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505130239	Thank you to the callers of this urgent debate and thank you to the President for the floor. The Syrians who have been granted temporary residence permits in Denmark have, of course, filled a lot of the debate in recent times, and the question of how the government has come to the conclusion that the Damascus area is safe to return to for Syrian citizens who have been temporarily resident in Denmark has been put to me in various ways, but I think it is best for the debate to take place on the right terms. We have a system in Denmark where it is first the Foreigners' Agency that assesses whether you have the right to protection and then the Refugee Board takes the final decision. The Refugee Board is an independent board with a judge at the end of the table. The Refugee Board bases its decisions on a wide range of reports, including reports from the UN, NGOs, various European countries and the EU Asylum Support Office, and on the basis of information on the general conditions in Damascus and the area around Damascus, it is referred to as Rif-Damascus, as shown in the reports, the Refugee Board has taken the view that there has been an improvement in the general situation, an improvement that cannot be assumed to be of a completely temporary nature. The Refugee Board has therefore decided entirely in accordance with the legislation we have adopted here in the Assembly Hall, and Denmark's international obligations, that those who initially fled Damascus and the area around Damascus because of the war and who are not individually persecuted no longer qualify for asylum in Denmark. Moreover, the improvement of the general situation in these areas is an assessment shared by the Swedish authorities, the Migration Authority, the UK authorities, the Home Office, and EASO, the European Asylum Support Office, in a number of reports. The Danish authorities are therefore not alone in the assessment of the general safety conditions in Damascus and the area around Damascus. However, where Denmark differs from other countries, our legislation is a piece of legislation with a principle of temporaryity, for which a broad majority in this Parliament voted back in 2015 and which of course is in line with Denmark's international obligations, and that is precisely the explanation, as I see it, for me and others to be met with the question of how the Danish authorities have come to the conclusion that Syrians can again be referred to stay in Damascus and the Damascus area. The Danish Parliament decided in 2015 with the refugee and migrant crisis as a backdrop that we in Denmark would maintain the approach that Denmark should take part in the responsibility for the world's refugees, but that at the same time it must be recognised that Denmark does not have the opportunity to offer permanent residence to everyone. This means that Syrian refugees who fled because of extreme and arbitrary violence in the areas from which they came were granted a temporary residence permit in Denmark, but that group should also be referred back as soon as the situation in the country of origin would allow. It was also presented quite openly, and this meant that the residence permit should be included if general conditions were to be improved, even if conditions remain fragile and unpredictable, and we have also made this clear to the Syrian refugees concerned. Your residence permit must be withdrawn if there is no longer a need for protection. It is important to stress that no one is being deprived of their residence permit if it is considered that they are at risk of persecution or abuse, for example. from the Syrian authorities, by a return to Syria. Those who still need protection in Denmark, of course, we provide protection and they can continue to reside in Denmark. I should also like to emphasise that the authorities have a precautionary principle, so that the applicant can benefit from doubts. However, when there are Syrians who have had their residence permit withdrawn or have been denied it extended, it is precisely because in every case the asylum authorities have considered that those concerned are not at risk of persecution on grounds of asylum if they return to Damascus or Rif-Damascus, either because of individual conflicts or because of general circumstances. All cases are dealt with individually, and in every case both the Foreigners' Board and the Refugee Board take personal and individual matters into account, and of course I trust that the authorities we have to assess these cases will also do so on a proper and informed basis. As the authors also point out, the opinion of the Refugee Board makes it relevant to look at how we stand in relation to the sending of persons to Syria who are no longer legally resident. People without legal residence in Denmark must leave, but as far as compulsory removal to Syria is concerned, there are still some very special circumstances at the moment. It is the government's opinion that, for foreign policy reasons, so far, no forced broadcasts are being carried out to Syria, and since recently, among other things, there has been an increase in the number of television broadcasts to Syria. in an article in Berlingske, has been discussing exactly this fact, I would also like to stress that the government does not intend to conclude an agreement with the Assad regime on forced broadcasts to Syria. What I am telling you about here is a Danish decision that we presented to the Danish Parliament about a year ago, but it is important for me to stress that it is based on an analysis and a political line that we share with our partners in Europe and in the United States. Denmark and the EU have a policy of maintaining pressure on the Syrian regime through inter alia: targeted sanctions, and we maintain that actions that can be interpreted as normalising relations with the Syrian regime should be renounced. We therefore do not enter into agreements with the Assad regime either. The pressure exerted by the United States and the European Union on the Syrian regime must be maintained in order to force the regime to political compromises; steps that are seen as normalisation will ease the pressure and make the regime even less willing to negotiate in order to reach a political solution to the conflict, and a Danish one-off with regard to forced broadcasting now and here can be interpreted as legitimising the regime. The Syrian regime is largely politically isolated today. Their closest allies are Iran and Russia. Conversely, we continue to distance ourselves from the regime in European capitals and in Washington, because a politically negotiated end to the conflict is, and remains, the only option for a sustainable peace in Syria, and I would also like to point out that the decision that forced broadcasts are not carried out so far is temporary and that the situation is constantly assessed. We are thus constantly uncovering, through a number of foreign representations, the current thinking of close partners in Europe and the United States in relation to forced broadcasts to Syria, and the dialogue with our close partners should lead to a common understanding of working towards creating the conditions for the completion of these broadcasts to Syria as soon as possible. This will take account of the common Syria policy, which we are therefore united in the West. It is also important for me to stress that the decision not to carry out broadcasts by coercion to Syria does not alter the government's position that a refugee who has been granted asylum in Denmark should, as a starting point, return home when conditions in the country of origin allow. And here I would like to make it clear that people without legal residence continue to have the opportunity to return voluntarily to Syria and that, of course, the best thing for all parties is when this happens voluntarily, and that is why I naturally find it gratifying that there are already more people who are going home voluntarily to Syria. The last few years are approx. 250 people repatriated to Syria with financial support from Denmark. Our authorities would like to assist foreigners without legal residence in planning the voluntary departure to Syria. For example, the Danish authorities will: could help with contact with Syria's Embassy in Stockholm to provide travel ID. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505131036	Thank you. Now there is the possibility of a question from each of the general rapporteur, and first it is Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505131044	Thank you. I have a very brief, concrete question which I shall return to later in the debate: is it the position of the government that, when circumstances allow, Assad should be in a war criminal court?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505131100	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505131102	Our position is that there should be no impunity, and that means that our position is that there must be an international consequence for those who are behind some of the terrible abuses that have taken place over the last ten years, it is now ten years that civil war has taken place in Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505131128	Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505131130	Thank you. The UNHCR advises against it, the Secretary of State of the United States advises against it, and the countries with which we compare do not. In other words, Denmark goes on its own, and that is why I would like to ask what impression it makes on the Minister that Denmark, as the only country, is systematically going further than even Órban in Hungary, taking the basis of residence from Syrian war refugees. Does it not give any cause for concern as to whether we are doing the right thing when many other countries do not?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505131203	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505131204	I have confidence in the decisions taken by the Foreign Affairs Council and the Refugee Board, and it is a very, very important part of their work that people are not sent back to persecution, torture and that they are thus not at risk when they return. However, it is true that the Danish Aliens Act, which was passed at the time just before the parliamentary elections in 2015, is called § 7 paragraph 7. 3 is different from the legislation of other European countries, which means that the Danish authorities may refuse to extend residence permits or may withdraw residence permits even though there are still fragile conditions, and not all other European countries have the same provision. It is, of course, within the framework of international conventions, but we have gone a long way, there is no reason to hide that, and it has the practical meaning that some people do not get their stay extended in Denmark. I think it is a perfectly legitimate discussion whether we should have this kind of temporary stay, but that is the consequence of the decisions that have been taken here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505131309	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505131311	The minister says that conditions in Damascus and Rif Damascus have improved, and that may be true, but he also says that they are fragile and unpredictable. And then there is talk of the fact that it is within the law. This amendment was made in 2015, and it says that people can be sent to areas with fragile and unpredictable conditions. It is very sobering and discerning, and that is, as it were, true. The only question is, is that fair? Is it fair to send some people who have been in such a terrible situation to places where conditions are fragile and unpredictable? Can we as a society offer it to people? That is what is interesting; it is not just whether this is in the field of legislation, because I think we agree that it is. But can the Minister look himself in the eye and send people to areas with fragile and unpredictable conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505131408	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505131410	I would like to start by saying that when people make an application for asylum or an application for an extension of their residence permit, it is really, really important decisions that are of enormous importance to our fellow human beings. I totally agree with that. They do not apply for a building permit for a carport. This is a really important decision. Last year, 600 people were definitively refused asylum in Denmark. They come from Kabul, Mogadishu, Baghdad, Damascus, they come from all sorts of areas. Before definitive refusals can be granted, it is also necessary to assess whether there is a basis for granting asylum, and it has been mentioned in the end that there is no basis for granting asylum. Can I look myself in the eye when the 600 decisions have been made? Yeah. Because I am confident that the people who work with this are in control of the fact that we are not sending people back to persecution and torture, but I do not have a bigger knot in the stomach for the people who come from Damascus than those who come from Kabul or Baghdad or Mogadishu or lots of other places where there are also fragile conditions where there is no welfare state and where there is a worse society than the Danish one.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505131514	Sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505131515	Thank you very much. After all, we can see that there are in fact tens of thousands if not hundreds of thousands of Syrian refugees returning to Syria from the vicinity, because they themselves consider that that is safe enough. So when our authorities consider that it is also safe for certain groups of Syrian refugees to return to Damascus, it is so unsolidarous of these people that they themselves will not go home and help build their country. We have given them free education, work, free welfare, so that you do not go back, I simply think is unsolidarous. But what I fear is that the parties holding hands under a social democratic government are putting so much pressure on the government that social democracy finally says: fine, we give in, they are allowed to stay here anyway. After all, it is at the mercy of the support parties that the Minister is a minister. Then we can trust 110%. that the government does not give in to the pressure of the Red Support Parties and leave these Syrian refugees to stay in Denmark, despite the fact that the authorities consider there to be peace?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505131617	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505131618	We have no plans to change the rules on temporary stay, nor do we have any plans to change Article 7 (7). 3, which is the whole basis for us to have this discussion. But I would also like to say that I will probably not be able to look these people in the eye and say that they are unsolidarian. Well, I can easily put myself in their place. I can do that. I understand that you'd rather live in Kolding than in Damascus. I don't think there's anything to say that they're doing what they can to stay here. What I just think is really important to us and it's not just for me as minister, it's also for all of us who are members of the Parliament, we besides keeping the heart warm also keep cool now. For we have seen before in the foreign policy history of Denmark that we have lost sight of it, and then special laws have been made for some Palestinians who once were in a church, and I also remember when there was a huge discussion Brorson's Church, where there were also some who had entrenched themselves. I really think it is important that we stick to the fact that we are a rule of law, we have legislation, and we have some authorities that have made a decision. That certainly has my support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505131723	Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505131725	Thank you. I therefore agree with the Minister that we must keep our hearts warm and our heads cold. That is why I would like to ask the Minister what the government really thinks is going to happen to these people. For the Minister says very clearly today that he has not done so in previous parliamentary answers, so it is nice that it is stated clearly today that you are not working on a repatriation agreement with the Assad regime. What has the government imagined to happen to these people that they intend to send back to a country devastated by civil war and where they are still persecuted? I don't think they're going to leave Denmark voluntarily. I would therefore like to ask the Minister, who obviously keeps his heart warm and his head cold: what is going to happen to these people?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505131805	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505131806	I would like to start by saying that they are not persecuted, because if they were persecuted, they would have been granted an extension of their residence permit. After all, the whole basis for not extending their residence permit is that in two bodies with interpreters and lawyers and judges and a thorough examination of the case, they have considered that they are not in danger of being persecuted. However, it is true that the country to which they are returning needs, to say the least, reconstruction in many places. But it's just not a basis for protection. There are plenty of people in the world who live where there is a need for a society to be rebuilt, but it is just no basis for protection. I know I sound like a boring bureaucrat, but I really think it's important that we keep our tongues in our mouths when we talk about these things. Because if we suddenly believe that the destruction of a society provides the basis for protection in itself, we have certainly had our doors opened. That is why I really do appeal to us to stick to the need for protection for as long as you need it and that we have authorities to assess whether you need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505131910	Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505131910-2	Thank you for that, President. The Minister did not answer Mrs Lund's question. It was actually a good question: what's going on with these people? After all, I and the Danish People's Party fully agree that if you come here and apply for asylum and get it, it is for a temporary period. It must be abolished when there is a possibility that you can go back home and then you have to go back home. But the Minister will have a challenge here, because many of these people can choose not to go back home, and the Minister really does not have a weapon to use. Will the Minister not deal with this, as Mrs Lund has also said, if it does not end up with the risk that these people, who obviously have to withdraw their residence permit in Denmark, will then be moved for a high school student, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505132003	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505132004	I shall start by apologizing for not having the answer to Mrs Rosa Lund's question. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is absolutely right. What does the government think is going to happen? Well we imagine that people are going home; that they accept that an exit deadline has been set and that within that period they are leaving Denmark. If they don't, it's right, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl says that if you do not cooperate on your own assignment, you will be able to be required to stay and report at an exit centre in Denmark. There are a few of them, and depending on whether you have children or not, you are placed in one place or another.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505132043	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505132044	Thank you. As far as I remember, the Prime Minister said before the elections that the Social Democratic Party has no plans to increase the benefits of foreigners in Denmark. Now the Minister is standing on the platform and saying something that makes me a little bit worried, because the Minister says in his reply to Mr. Marcus Knuth, that the government has no plans to change this temporary nature. So, can we be sure that this is not going to change and that it isn't all of a sudden in six months' time or in a year's time or in two years' time, that you get soft in the codes and say: well, it's also a pity, because you now have a focus on this one young woman or someone else that you find sympathetic? Can we be sure of that? Or will it go as it did with the benefits, namely that those plans that were not made before the elections actually became reality after the elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505132139	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505132140	Well, I'm sorry if that sounded like a parrot's answer to sir. Marcus Knuth. In other words, we can be quite sure that we welcome the provisions of the Aliens Act which define temporary protection. They're not gonna change, you can be sure of that. We should also bear in mind that the Syrian group is not, after all, the first group to have its residence permit withdrawn or refused. There are actually hundreds of Somalis who have been through roughly the same thing, and then I may not have quite experienced the same resurrection that I am experiencing now. But I myself feel that the legislation that has been able to work for Somalis can also work for Syrians and that in future it may also work for a third group. I believe that we are in the process of transforming Danish and perhaps other European countries' refugee policy from being permanent immigration to being temporary. But that's what this discussion is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505132243	We thank the Minister. There's no more short remarks in this round. Now we move on to the debate, where it is first the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Lund, and then follow the general brief remarks. Then I would like to say that this is an urgent question and that there is a framework for it. At 1:00 a.m. 15.00, we have to be done. I will try to lead this in such a way that we reach all the rapporteurs. There are also privateists who have asked for the floor and will have it for two minutes, and I am sure you would also like the Minister on the floor to finish this. So the first thing I am asking for is for the speaking time to be kept and I really want to make an effort to get through all the rapporteurs and to get the minister back on the floor. So I'm asking you to help with that along the way. Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505132330	Thank you. Well, I'll try to be brief. Although I have gradually become accustomed to the idea that a social democratic government means a totally unfair policy on foreigners, I still believe that many people are surprised at how wrong things really are today. Right must be right: it is not only the current government that is responsible for us being in the situation we are in now, when we can deprive the residence permits of so many Syrians. In concrete terms, the seeds were already laid in 2015, when the then Social Democratic and Radical Left government passed the bill allowing temporary residence permits to be issued for refugees who can now be returned to fragile conditions. The Enhedslisten warned the parties behind the agreement that the situation we are facing today could arise. That we may disagree on whether temporaryness is a good thing or a bad thing is like what it is, but I actually thought, I would say to the Socialists that we had a common understanding that there are no people fleeing for fun. You don't leave everything you own and have; you don't leave the country you were born and grew up in for fun; you don't leave your family for fun. And I do not think that anyone in the whole world is leaving the place where they are because they think that Denmark is a fun country to be in. Because with the line we have been putting to people from outside, there is no doubt that it is not fun to be in Denmark if you are a refugee. One thing I still thought we could be sure of, however, is that if you flee war in your home country and go all the way to Denmark, you get protection; that Denmark as one of the richest countries in the world provides protection to people on the run. That protection was to be believed until the danger had passed, but it does not. The protection given to young women and girls in particular by Denmark only extends to the time when it is believed that they have been in the country long enough. But whether it is safe in the country from which they have fled is irrelevant. Whether the war is over is also irrelevant. The fact that the dictator from whom one has fled, who has actively harassed and subjected oneself and one's family to abuse, is still in power is also minor. If you take the Foreign Affairs Agency's report on the security situation in the Damascus area, it is a clear example of a government that is pursuing a policy that does not relate to the reality in which we live. 11 out of 12 named experts in the report disapprove of its conclusion. They say their quotes have been misused and used in a context in which they do not fit. The only person who does not disapprove of the report is surprisingly one of Assad's own generals. To say that you use a lot of other sources when you make the assessment does not hold up, because of course it must be given more weight when the sources you have specifically asked are actively saying the opposite. Researchers and experts disapprove of the method used in the report because it is unspeakable and fragile. So the probability that the conclusion is correct is incredibly low. That we are even in a situation where these women are to be separated from their families, sent to exit centres and potentially reside there for a very long time instead of being part of society, I do not think that I am able to bear. We are talking about people who are well integrated, who go to school and work, have friends and who live up to what the government and a majority in here actually think you should when you come to Denmark as a refugee. We cannot send them out because, as a democratic country, of course, we do not make broadcasting agreements with a dictator, and I am glad that the Minister has confirmed that today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505132736	Thank you to the rapporteur. Rosa Lund Can I read out a text for adoption?). Yeah, you can always do that. Here you go. Rosa Lund Thank you for that).
ParlaMint-DK_20210505132739	On behalf of Enhedslisten, SF, Radical Left, Free Greens and Christian Democrats, I have to read out the following proposals for adoption: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament calls on the government to stop removing the residence base from Syrians simply to place them at the exit center. Syria is not safe for people or relatives of people fleeing the Assad regime. The Folketing is opposed to making repatriation agreements with the Assad regime on forced repatriation, as this requires recognition of the regime. V 117).
ParlaMint-DK_20210505132808	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will now be included in the further debate. Just as a service information, if those who need words from the platform use their full speaking time, then we have room for approx. 15 brief remarks. I only mention it as a service information, not as a threat. First of all, a brief comment from Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505132827	Thank you. Does Mrs Rosa Lund recognise that many Syrians from the neighbourhood voluntarily return to Syria right now because they themselves consider that it is safe enough, especially to the Damascus area, and acknowledges Mrs Rosa Lund that the Syrians who came to Denmark and got a stay under § 7 para. 3, knew that it was a temporary stay and that the day when our authorities consider that it is safe enough, they would have to return? That's exactly what they're assessing now. So why does this come as such a huge surprise to Mrs Rosa Lund?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505132858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505132858-2	I fully acknowledge that there are Syrians who are going back. We can look at the figures, and that is because they are no longer persecuted. When they no longer fear for their lives, they go back. I don't have anything to do with that. I must also say to Mr. Marcus Knuth, I'm not really surprised. As I also said in my speech, Enhedslisten warned back in 2015, when section 7 was made. Thirdly, that we might be in this situation, just as we, to use the Minister's words, tried to make a resurrection when the Somalis were deprived of their residence permit.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505132929	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505132931	But if it doesn't come as a surprise, what's the cause of all this fuss? You have been temporarily resident and, as Mrs Lund says, they are not the ones who have been persecuted. Those who have been temporarily resident in accordance with § 7 (a) 3 is not individually persecuted. They have been protected because of the circumstances of the area, which are now good enough for them to be sent back. And if it is the case that our authorities consider that it is safe enough to return, which is also supported by the hundreds of thousands of people who voluntarily return, why should these people not go back?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505132959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133000	Well, sir. Marcus Knuth, all this fuss is due to the lack of peace in the Damascus area, because Assad's intelligence service still decides there, and the people who are related or have relations with people who are personally persecuted by the Assad regime are in danger if they go back, and there are plenty of experts and sources pointing to that. If it stood for me in the ideal situation, we wouldn't even have §7 paragraph 7. 3. In that case, Syrians would have been granted a residence permit under § 7 (1). 2.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133030	Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133032	A little along the same lines: according to the UNHCR, in the last few years, 140 000 people have returned from the vicinity to Syria. We can also read stories told here in Denmark by people who know that Syrians are going back to their country while they still have a residence permit here in Denmark. Why is it, Mrs Rosa Lund, that exactly the Syrians who are in Denmark are such ones who are in a special group compared to all those who return to Syria? Why is it that they are exactly the ones who are persecuted while all the others can well return?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133104	Well, why they are exactly the ones who are persecuted, the Enhedslisten can't answer that, but Assad can answer that. Well, the point is that those who return voluntarily can do so now and that those who have not yet left voluntarily are not, because they are still gone, Mr President. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is persecuted and it is dangerous for them to be in Syria, and that is what I and Enhedslisten choose to believe in.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133125	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133126	That is the height of naivety! After all, it is the height of naivety that the Syrians who are in Denmark and think it is nicer to be in Denmark than to be in Syria, by not taking the Syrias can illustrate to the Enhedslisten that they will be persecuted if they came to Syria while those who are in the vicinity and who live in some more pitiful conditions, so apparently they are not persecuted, because they can return to Syria. It might also be that this is something to do with the welfare area and that you would actually rather live and live your life in Denmark than in Syria. No one can think of that, but we cannot build the refugee policy on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133156	I have to say that the peak of naivety comes from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. In order to believe that just because a Syrian is no longer persecuted, no one is, then, to trust completely blindly in the Assad regime, and I think that is naive.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133215	Sir. Sikandar Siddique, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133216	I would like to thank the rapporteur first of all for calling the debate. I know that the rapporteur is personally concerned about this area. So thank you for that. I would like to hear about the position of Enhedslisten in relation to the government. So if the government continues to plan to send these war refugees, Syrian refugees, home, how far will the Enhedslisten go? How far will the Enhedslisten go for these Syrian war refugees? Are we gonna stop here at an urgent request? Are we using the key with which we sit in the form of the crucial mandates? It's an open question. How far will Enhedslisten go if the government chooses to say that they will How far will Enhedslisten go?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133319	Thank you. Then we'll get answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133321	Thank you for that question. If Enhedslisten sat with some key that could get the government to change foreign policy, then I can promise that we had used it a long time ago. Now it is just the case that Enhedslisten went to elections on one foreign policy, the Social Democracy, which forms the government, went to elections on another foreign policy. I do not think it is a secret, either in here or outside Christiansborg, that Enhedslisten and the government disagree on foreign policy. We have 13 mandates in the Enhedslisten, and the 13 mandates we intend to use to push the government, but when I look around in the Chamber, listen to Mr. Marcus Knuth, listens to Mr. Knuth. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, I can also listen to the fact that the 13 mandates of Enhedslisten can be found by the government for its foreign policy elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133402	Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133403	After all, the 13 mandates are also crucial mandates. The 13 mandates are 13 out of the majority that forms the basis for support. So it's not just 13 seats. It is important for me to hear in principle, and I think it is also for many out there, whether this is a cardinal point and simply so crucial a failure of humanity and humanism that the Enhedslisten is ready to ultimately overthrow the government by drawing its support to the government on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133443	Then we shall have answers from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133443-2	I really appreciate the question, sir. Sikandar Siddique because, I think, there are some misunderstandings about what it means to be a parliamentary basis. If it were the case that we could get a new immigration policy by overthrowing the government, then I can promise that we would not have hesitated for a single second. Now it's just that there's a majority in here at Christiansborg who means something other than Enhedslisten. I think that's too bad. I spend every day in this room at least that's how it feels to convince both my colleagues, but also the people, of something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133517	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Inger Løjberg, outside the Groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133518	Yes, one might be tempted to follow up on this question, because it is really an issue that I think interests us all, namely how far Enhedslisten is actually willing to go in terms of implementing the policy that Enhedslisten now believes must be implemented. So somehow, for the first time ever, I guess I'll just let Mrs. Rosa Lund answer to Mr. Sikandar Siddique's question, because it did not go so well for the first time when Mrs Rosa Lund tried to get the answer to it. So I actually think I'm just gonna let Mrs. Rosa Lund do that now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133555	Well, if what I hear Mrs Inger Løjberg says is that Mrs Inger Løjberg has changed her foreign policy and is ready to stand with the Enhedslisten and put pressure on the government so that we suddenly have 14 mandates, that is welcome. But I find that hard to see. Mrs Inger Løjberg knows as well as I do that there is a large majority in this Chamber for an inhuman alien policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133616	Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133616-2	So, first of all, I would like to disapprove of calling our policy on foreigners an inhumane one compared to those of us who now represent a majority in the area of foreign policy. I believe that we have an obligation to take good care of Denmark and therefore a strict immigration policy is being pursued. And Mrs Rosa Lund can easily stand and try to cheer herself up, but in reality this is not a particularly cheerful discussion, that is, whether the Enhedslisten will use its mandates to overthrow the government on the foreign policy pursued by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133648	Well, I am in complete agreement with Mrs Inger Løjberg that this is not a cheerful situation. But if I were to stand here and expose the Enhedslisten's parliamentary strategy, it would put us in a pretty bad position to put pressure on the government. So there I simply have to disappoint Mrs Inger Løjberg and still keep the cards a little close to the body.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133706	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133708	Thank you. The reason we are even standing here is that there was a massive failure in 2015. The situation at the time was that there was one party that wanted something else and that was willing to look after Denmark, they said before the elections. When it came to the play and Lars Løkke Rasmussen sat with power, they failed to do what is now being asked about here. It failed to put so much pressure on the government that it was willing to ultimately overthrow the government. Now, of course, I'm talking about DF in that situation. We have since criticized DF and asked: Why didn't you? Why not stand firm and say: If you do not take care of Denmark, then whoever is in power must issue elections? I am sure that at that time DF would have grown into a huge party because there was massive support for what DF stood for at the time. But you wavered, you sat on your hands, and you let Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen rides with the climb, and the migrants fell in. Now, with the reverse sign, we can see Enhedslisten doing the same to his government. Can't the Enhedslisten see that if you're not willing to overthrow the government, this is just a parade proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133811	Then we will have an answer from the rapporteur. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133812	I simply have some doubts as to what the question was. But I can say so much that we do everything we can every day, and I am quite sure that the Minister can sign it, to push the government in our direction. Therefore, I do not believe that Denmark had succeeded in taking back quota refugees, that the children had come out of Soulsmark, and that § 7 para. Three refugees were just the refugees that we are talking about today... could be allowed to take training if it had not been for the Enhedslisten in the negotiations on the understanding paper. I hope I have answered what the rapporteur asked, because it was a little unclear, I have to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133844	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133845	The question is whether you're not willing to overturn the government on this. The fact is, you stand up and look up at the fact that this is about life and death. What could be more important than life and death? So if you're not willing to go all the way in a case like this, aren't we just wasting our time sitting in the Chamber two hours discussing it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133908	No, I certainly do not think that we are wasting our time, Mrs Pernille Vermund. I think we have a responsibility to these people who have been deprived of their residence permit to discuss their situation and discuss the situation in Syria in this Chamber, the stronghold of democracy. It would be strange if we didn't discuss it in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133926	And after five brief comments, there are no more. So we thank Mrs Rosa Lund and move on. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505133943	Thank you, President. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe it is absolutely essential to stick to the central principle of our asylum law that protection is temporary when you are a refugee. As long as you need it, you get protection, and when you no longer need it, of course you have to go home. The Refugee Board is an independent court-like body and has considered that Syrian refugees who have arrived in Denmark from Damascus and Rif Damascus, respectively, and who are not individually persecuted, can now return home, as the general conditions in these areas have improved. Reports from authorities in Sweden and Great Britain and an EU asylum authority can read the same assessment of the general conditions in Syria and the Rif Damascus province. Moreover, these authorities' assessments should be seen in the light of the fact that over the last few years 130,000 Syrians have returned to Syria from the vicinity of the United Nations, and in the last few years 237 Syrians have returned to Syria from Denmark completely voluntarily. In addition, and this is a little comment on Mrs Lund's remarks that it is almost a single report from which all decisions have been taken, the President of the Refugee Board, Mr Bloch Andersen, has explained that there are 1,400 different reports in the case of Syria, that a number of other sources are also being drawn in addition, and that the report on which there has been so much media poetry, and which Mrs Lund mentioned, does not function as such some kind of reference work that you look at and see: here we can send people home. Finally, it has also been explained that the way in which these reports are made is very proper. The Director of the Foreigners' Agency has put the longer description of how it is done on the Danish Management Authority's website. Everything is available in English, so other countries can also provide information in it, and annexes will be included with the quotes that have been fully publicly available, and then, before years had passed, you could come and say so if there was something you thought you were misquoted about. It is important to stress that these reports do not function as such some kind of reference work. I think both the board and the board have explained that well. In the Social Democratic Party, we are confident that the name will make correct decisions. The cases are assessed individually and on the basis of expert assessments, intelligence and country reports, and it is a judge who ultimately decides what to decide. Against this background, it has also recently surprised me, at least, how many members of parliament as well as civil society activists have proved to be great Syrian convicts and experts in the law of convention, and who should actually start to organise some courses for the judges of the Refugee Board, because they obviously know some things that the judges are not aware of. This has been the case in the daily press. Finally, I would like to read out the proposals for adoption by the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Conservatives and the Liberal Alliance: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the temporary stay of refugees in Denmark is a fundamental principle of Danish foreign policy as long as they fulfil the conditions. The Folketing stresses the importance of the final decision to withdraw or refuse the extension of the residence permit being taken by the Refugee Board, which is an independent judicial body. • 118).
ParlaMint-DK_20210505134300	Thank you. That will now be part of the debate. I now have three brief comments to make, and I would like to close now, otherwise there will be no brief comments to the subsequent rapporteurs. I would therefore like to say to Mrs Eva Flyvholm that I cannot allow two from a party with such a narrow margin of time, so it will be Mrs Rosa Lund who will have the short comments of the Enhedslisten. First, it's sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505134318	Thank you. After all, we received an answer from the Minister to my question; a good answer that Assad and the people with whom he surrounds, who are responsible for crimes against humanity, war crimes, must be brought before a judge. How on earth can we send people back to a regime and a dictator who has complete control over the part of the country that is believed to be responsible for war crimes and crimes against humanity? How on earth can you get yourself to do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505134413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505134414	There is no doubt that Assad has committed these insane crimes, but it is not so clear that all Syrians who then reside in Syria risk being subjected to torture or other degrading treatment by Assad and his regime. If it were so clear, it would certainly be surprising that the 130,000 people who have been in the neighbourhood during the civil war have begun to return in the last few years. I mean, if it were so clear that when you cross the border with Syria, you go to a torture cellar, you wouldn't go home. And if it were so clear, there wouldn't be 237 Syrians who over the last few years have turned to their municipality here in Denmark and said: Now I would like to come back. In other words, the attempt to draw such a very clear picture I simply do not recognise, and I also think that it is a discredit of the very thorough work that you can read about how to be carried out first on the board and then on the board.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505134518	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505134520	No, there is no discredit, other than that the government legitimises its own contradiction, because it is one of the greatest contradictions of history that people are being sent back to a regime with which they do not want to make agreements, and therefore they themselves do not have a clear answer to the fate of these people. They are being sent back to a regime that is wanted before a war criminal court. That is a huge contradiction and an ethical problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505134553	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505134554	No, there is no contradiction in that. Well, it is perfectly natural that people who do not have a dispute with the Assad regime should be able to return. That is why 130,000 Syrians from the neighbourhood have returned in the last few years, as well as 237 Syrians in Denmark have returned in the last few years. That is precisely because they are not personally persecuted and are therefore not at risk of returning. There are plenty of people staying in Syria without having been, yes, thrown into torture cellars and such. So that is why that very clear picture is simply not correct to draw.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505134626	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505134627	Now I did not get a full answer from the Minister before, so I will try to ask Mr. Rasmus Stoklund in a bit of the same way, namely, what an impression it makes on Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, that Denmark as the only country because we are actually going further than Hungary is systematically taking the basis of residence from Syrian war refugees? Does the rapporteur not think that there is any cause for concern as to whether we are doing the right thing? Then I'd like to ask you another question. If the country report referred to by the rapporteur is so subordinate to a host of other reports, does the rapporteur not find it strange that this is the only report that the government mentions and highlights when it is politically decided to bring forward the case of Syrian refugees in the press release of June 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505134723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505134723-2	I think, of course, that it is right to follow the decisions taken by a court-like body, just as I thought that the Radical Left would think it right to follow the legislation which the Radical Left itself has been involved in adopting, and then follow the decision that a judge has reached, just as it is with all possible other legislation that the Radical Left has helped to adopt. When a judgment falls in the court of the city, we respect the decision that falls. In other contexts, the Radical Left respects me well-known courts and court-like bodies. I personally do not understand why we should not do this in this context, but it is also a matter for the Radical Left to explain how it can be linked.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505134756	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505134758	I still have 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505134800	Anything else?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505134801	Yes, because I had to answer the second part about the country report. President. - I am sorry). There are 1,400 reports. The President of the Council has explained this. 400 of them are newer than this one. In addition, there are all sorts of other background information. Finally, this country report has been in consultation. There has been an opportunity to object if there were any of your quotes that you were unhappy with. This has been fully explained on the board's website, and the chairman of the board has also explained it. I don't think there's anything to come for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505134833	Sir. Kristian Hegaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505134833-2	Now I know that the rapporteur considers it important to highlight the decisions and to say that that is what has been said, and that must then be adhered to. What is crucial is the political decisions on which it is based. That's why I just think, sir. Rasmus Stoklund must ask himself if that is true. And if it doesn't give rise to that at all, I understand that it doesn't make Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, at Social Democracy, that Denmark as the only country systematically does this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505134907	Then we shall have answers from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505134908	No, I'm not going around worrying about the decisions made by the judges. However, in order to respond a little more fully, I would like to say that, in relation to the legislation which the Radical Left itself helped to adopt, we received a fine committee reply in the Committee on Foreign Affairs yesterday or the day before yesterday, I think it was. It can be seen here that the starting point will continue to be that the general state of violence and the mere possibility of abuse resulting from an unstable situation or a general state of violence in the applicant's country of origin will not in itself justify protection. That was stated in the comments to the draft law, and the Radical Left voted in favour of it. I do not understand why this legislation is not being upheld now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505134944	Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505134945	It is quite true that this is what the comments on the draft law say, which was one of the reasons why Enhedslisten voted against. We are, of course, pleased that the Radical Left changed its position. Rasmus Stoklund, for Mr. Rasmus Stoklund himself says you can't draw a unique picture of it. Thank you very much, because you cannot do that, and therefore you cannot equate the fact that there are people who go back to Syria and that there are people who choose to stay in Denmark because it is still dangerous for them to be in Syria. In other words, does the Social Democratic Party not recognize that there are arbitrary arrests; that there is violence; that there is persecution; that the Assad secret service is, in fact, the ones in charge in the Damascus area? That means, of course, if the Social Democratic Party recognizes that we do so in the Enhedslisten... that there are still people who will be persecuted, who will still be on the run and for whom it will still be dangerous to be in Syria, and that is probably why they have not gone back. So now that the Social Democrats themselves recognise that one cannot draw a clear picture, one must also recognise that there is reason for people to stay in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505135054	Then we shall have answers from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505135054-2	Well, the whole point of this is that it's not the task of social democracy to draw these clear pictures. It is not the Social Democratic Party that has proclaimed itself as convention super-experts or as Syrians, it is some others, and if I say that there is not a clear picture, then it is because I fully recognise that there are some who are personally persecuted and therefore should not be sent back, of course not because they would then be exposed to, for example. torture. So, of course, they shouldn't be sent back. But there it is just that the experts and the authorities in which we are trusted consider that this is not a clear picture, it is not the case that it applies to everyone, and therefore there are some who can come back, and that is what is at the heart of this. I'm not the one who's supposed to judge who can come back and who can't come back. But I'm just sensitive to the fact that among other things... Henrik Bloch Andersen, chairman of the Refugee Board, has explained that we are working on a precautionary principle and says: if there is a risk of a justified, credible risk that there may be a danger of a particular person returning, we should not, of course, prevent a residence permit.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505135154	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505135155	Well, I'm not really praying, sir. Rasmus Stoklund about being a Syrian expert. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund himself says that this is essentially about legislation. I agree with that. I just disagree with the legislation that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund's party has made and which means that we are now in the situation we are in and which, of course, is also in Mr Rasmus Stoklund's position. Rasmus Stoklund, is a situation where these people who have been deprived of their residence permit when they choose to become Denmark because they are on the run from the Assad regime, then have to stay at an exit center. Or what's going to happen to them, sir? Rasmus Stoklund?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505135228	Then we'll get answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505135229	Yes, of course. If you do not respect a Danish judge's decision and you do not go out, as other foreigners do when they get a decision, then it must have the consequence that you live at an exit centre, otherwise we will have free immigration to Denmark in practice. And if you follow this logic that the mere fact that you come from an area where there is a serious situation and where there may be a fragility and instability, then there really are many cities, areas, regions, countries in the world from which you were entitled to asylum if you came to Denmark. You are not, and you are not necessarily because you are from Damascus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505135303	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Rasmus Stoklund. There are no more brief comments. We're moving on, and that's sir. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505135324	Thank you for the floor. We in the Left believe that we can be aware of our efforts towards Syrian refugees. Overall, we have seen the view that it is quite natural that when we in Denmark have helped people fleeing war and strife in their home countries, they must also return there when it is assessed by the Danish authorities that there is sufficient certainty. When our authorities assess and recommend that we can start sending some refugees back to some parts of Syria, that is an attitude that we support in other words. So let me be quite clear: we trust that our authorities are fully able to decide and make these assessments. One of the reasons why the urgent question has been put, I think, is the many cases that have emerged in the media, and it is always difficult to base our return policy on cases that are pending out there, but they are nevertheless important to send an indicator that this precautionary principle on which the authorities must work is very important: we must never send back people who risk being personally persecuted; we must follow the rules that exist in this area. We also understand that it is hard to refuse residence in Denmark and to be told that you have to return to Syria if you had imagined that life would unfold here, but it is just not part of the contract that you have entered into when you apply for asylum in Denmark. It is a temporary contract: one can be very happy to come here, but one also knows that it is not permanent if it is the case that where one comes from, the acts of war cease. We believe that there is also a moral dimension to going back, not a moral look, I will throw at those seeking asylum, but the debate about what the whole area looks like. We have limited means, we cannot help everyone. Every time we help here rather than in the neighborhood, we help fewer people than we could before. Every time we help some people we have estimated not to need protection, but who are still gone and who are still pulling away on the Danish spending system, then there are others who should have received the help that does not get it. We would very much like to help people on the run. Therefore, the Danish welfare state makes itself available with all the opportunities that are here for the refugees who come to Denmark for a period of time. We make sure that they feel safe and get some tools that they can use when they return to a home country that needs it raised again. We also think it is questionable if we break this principle because it basically leads to being a refugee being just another way of being an immigrant. I would like to conclude by saying that we have full confidence in the Danish immigration authorities and that we continue to support their assessments and see no reason to change them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505135635	Thank you. Now I am in a situation where we have eight rapporteurs, two privateists and one minister left, and I now have five requests for short remarks. Then we have reached something similar to a 13.14 comment, and then there will be a 3.4 comment for the remaining ones. As I have pointed this out here from the beginning, I assume that it is the act of the Folketing's prioritizing to make so many brief comments on the two largest parties. I'm gonna have to shut down afterwards. That is why I say that this is the conclusion I have to draw, because it is also my job to ensure that we stay reasonably within the framework of about two hours. So that is the way I intend to prioritise it. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505135721	Thank you. I'll be brief. The left has previously looked up that Denmark is for those who can and will. Is that still the position of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505135730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505135732	Yes, it is. We believe that we must pursue a strict asylum policy and ensure that people in the neighbourhood are helped, and we believe that we should pursue a more flexible policy in relation to those who want to look for work in Denmark. We're in favour of the positive list. We would like to reduce the limit on the amount, and foreign labour is always welcome in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505135755	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505135755-2	If the Left is in favour of Denmark being for those who can and will, what impression does it make when you hear about Aya, who in record time learns good and complete Danish and goes through the education system? What impression does it make on the Left when one hears about Faeza, who, in a few years, qualifies to enter nursing training, where one can meet the demand for just that kind of labour? Isn't this part of education something we need to look at much more closely when it comes to assessing the basis for residence?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505135828	Thank you. Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505135829	I am very pleased that they get an education here in Denmark and can take something home. They can also apply for an occupational scheme that allows them to apply to Denmark again. It is an opportunity that exists. We could never mix refugee and asylum policy with employment policy. It's two separate things. But we are pleased that there is a positive arrangement. Although I think that there may be more need for nurses in Syria than there is in Denmark, we are pleased with the business arrangements that we have helped to vote through, in fact, often with the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505135858	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505135900	Just a few months ago, the rapporteur made a quick remark that perhaps an agreement should be made with the Assad regime to get those Syrians who do not return voluntarily back to Syria. And, of course, I am aware that perhaps the Left was just out to correct the course a little. But what was the real reason for the rapporteur's thinking that we might have to go that way to ensure that the Syrians who have to return actually return?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505135931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505135931-2	Well, I actually share the view of the former British Foreign Minister Jeremy Hunt, who said that as long as someone is holding hands on Assad, he will probably be in power for more years than anyone here will be in Parliament. And that means that in the long term, all solutions involving Syrians and Syria mean that you have to find out what requirements you want to make to Assad to solve these things. One of the ways in which we do this, and which we in the Left support, is to say that if Assad would very much like money to rebuild Syria and have funds for it from the European Union, then he must hold free elections. There may have been my audacious thought at that time, but let us see if it cannot be taken up again at some point to say that if he wants funds to rebuild Syria, then he should not just hold free elections; he must also ensure the safety of the people who have returned from the vicinity and from the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505140026	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505140028	Today 16 years ago, former Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen apologized to the Danish Jews for the policy pursued in Denmark up through the 1930s and until 1942. What does the rapporteur of the Left think, sir? Mads Birded, about the excuse that the then Prime Minister of the Left gave to the Danish Jews?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505140058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505140059	Well, I thought it was quite appropriate. At that time, before you had the refugee convention, people on the border could be rejected. This was done in Denmark, and it was done throughout Europe. They were lying around, and they knew that they were not welcome where they came from and that they were personally persecuted. And people who are personally persecuted, we must always help.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505140123	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505140124	Now there were quite a lot of cases that were not investigated at the time, I should say hello. That was one of the problems. It was arbitrary. But it was still before die Endlösung, so it wasn't because you had any final knowledge of what would happen to these people. Did Mr. Mads Birded a final knowledge of what will happen to the people we send back to Syria and to a war criminal and a war criminal regime, as Mr. Mads Birde apparently wants to make deals with?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505140200	Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505140202	Well, there wasn't any casework at all in the 1930s. They were rejected at the border. One can very easily read that out; that's how it was. There was no arbitrariness in it. Everyone was rejected. That is why we have changed it so that if you are personally persecuted, you can have your case dealt with. And I don't know what happens when you get sent back or when you get repatriated or how to return to Iran, Somalia, Afghanistan, Syria or anywhere else. Always, when that happens, I hope that the terrible regimes to which they return do not strive for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505140238	Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505140240	In fact, we should not only look at individual persecution, because it is only one criterion, because it is also a question of whether it is still basically safe enough to send people back, and we know that throughout Syria there is an extremely high risk of arbitrary arrests, there is a very high risk of being tortured and disappearing in these prisons. Assad is notoriously known as a torturer, and the entire regime is based on harsh repression. One-and-a-half million Syrians are on the secret service's list of people they want to put in prison, and so they also have families who are also at risk of going to jail, and you know what happens to people in these Syrian torture prisons. So I would really like to ask the rapporteur something: how can the rapporteur feel so sure that it is a very good idea to send people to Damascus here? I dared not put my head on the block for it, because I think it is absolutely sure that some of those people will end up in a terrible situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505140329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505140330	After all, there are a great many people who have returned, especially from the north, to Rif Damascus, and that means that we are getting more and more empirical knowledge about how they are doing in that area, and that is why the Danish authorities must use the knowledge that comes from there to assess whether the precautionary principle we are applying applies here. I trust the decisions they reach, because I am not in the same way as the questioner's expert on the situation in Rif Damascus, but I am counting on our authorities to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505140400	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505140401	But are we to understand that if any of the people who have returned to Damascus now have actually ended up in prisons, have ended up being tortured or have ended up disappearing, then the Left will stop speaking for broadcasts to Syria, because I believe very quickly that we can obtain the data that it already exists?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505140419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505140420	If it is the case that there are many cases of broadcasts that end up being different from what was expected, the precautionary principle must be tightened up in the Refugee Board. We'll back that up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505140434	Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505140436	Thank you to the rapporteur. Large parts of the speech had a moral dimension, I think the rapporteur said. So I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether there is not a moral dimension that needs to be taken into account, for example. By this practice, we're seeing right now when families get separated. Some are deprived of their residence permit and go home, but others are not. So families get separated. Is there not also a moral dimension that should be taken into account? We have, for example. There are refugees who come here at the age of 10, and today they are 16 years old. Their young adult age they have spent here. Is there not a moral dimension in it, so one should consider whether they should go back or whether they should not go back? I ask because the moral dimension was filled in the rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505140534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505140535	I still believe what I said in the speech, namely that there must be a general principle of usefulness, i.e. a utilitarian principle of utility to help as much as possible for the resources we have. If you have a son in a family who cannot come back because of military service or danger of being pursued in some way by the regime, and a daughter who cannot, it is of course unfortunate that they are divorced, but if you can help even more people who feel much worse than the difficult situation they have to face, I still think that you should help as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505140613	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. That's why it's after a little cleaning, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505140633	Thank you for that, President. In the view of the Danish People's Party, the Syrians who are here in Denmark have an obligation to return to Syria as soon as possible. And then there is a Refugee Board that sits and judges these cases and they come to the conclusion that there are people who are not personally persecuted, but have fled only because of general circumstances in Syria, and they can return, and then what is then the problem for the government and the way the government is shown its impotence in this matter is that it is said that those who agree, but often these people will then be able to risk moving from, for example. Nyborg to an exit center and not come to Syria. And it's a crucial problem that these people can really see it as a roof-top where they choose for themselves whether they end up back in Syria or not. When you can return to Syria, it is also illustrated by the UNHCR's assessment that there are up to 140 000 who have returned in the last two years. It is also illustrated by stories that we can get told that there are resident Syrians who are on vacation or stay in other ways.Some will find it provocative to call it a holiday in Syria to assess the conditions, and then they will return to Denmark again. I think most Danes will think that such people, in fact by their behaviour, have shown that they can return and then have to return. So we think it is an obligation and we do not think it should be a free choice system. It can be said that the only way we can then prevent it from becoming a free choice system for these people, who are judged to be able to return to Syria, is in fact by knowing that they know that they have the ultimate opportunity to repatriate them to Syria, and it is by accepting that there can also be a dialogue with the regime in Syria. Of course, it is not in any way because we in the Danish People's Party think that the regime is sympathetic or that we do not recognise that the Assad regime has done brutality or has done inhumane deeds on a very large scale in Syria, because we believe that, but we do not believe, on the other hand, that it should be the case that the present Syrians, who are not considered to have a need for protection in Syria, can choose not to return to Syria. We also believe that if there is really such a dialogue and you know that you end up in Syria ultimately once the Refugee Board has settled these matters, you will also do so more voluntarily, because you know that the alternative is that this is done in cooperation. I think it was extremely sensible that the rapporteur of the Left was talking about precisely this. I read with interest a few months ago, I think it was in Jyllands-Posten and in a facebook post that Mr. Mads Fuglede said that a dialogue should be opened with the Assad regime with a view to reaching such an agreement on how to ensure the repatriation of the Syrians. As I said in my brief comment to Mr. Mads Fuglede, I am also aware that the Left drew a little ashore afterwards, but it is not the same as that one cannot have hit the dial correctly, and therefore I really think we should follow up that view again, and therefore, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament stresses that temporary stay in Denmark means temporary stay. Delays should not result in a permanent stay in Denmark. The Folketing therefore urges the government to enter into dialogue with the regime in Syria to ensure that Syrians in Denmark who no longer have the right to be here can return to Syria. • V 119).
ParlaMint-DK_20210505140958	Thank you. And that is now part of the further debate. I would like to make two brief comments before I close here, and of course we will take them. It's first Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141004	Thank you. Now Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl again this with the fact that there are people who go back to Syria voluntarily. Rasmus Stoklund to recognise that the situation is different and that there is no clear picture of how the situation is in Syria or what the situation is for Syrians staying in Denmark. Recognizes Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141032	There are certainly different circumstances. I believe that there were 100 last year and 137 last year who repatriated to Syria on repatriation schemes, that is, with money in the pockets of Danish taxpayers. But it is also clear that there will be a number of Syrians who think that it is better to stay in Denmark anyway and hope that one can have a permanent opportunity to stay in Denmark with the family instead of having to return, because they consider that the material situation, the welfare situation, is also different in Denmark compared to Syria. I am simply saying that if you are judged not to be personally persecuted but to be able to return, then it should not be the assessment that an Syrian can make himself to decide, because then he must return and that is the way it must be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141110	Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141111	So, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl simply does not recognise that the reason why you choose to stay in Denmark is that you risk your life if you go back to Syria. I hear sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl say that it's all about everything else about the Danish welfare society, and I don't know what. Well, that's the basic priority, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, that these people have not escaped for fun; that these people have fled from a regime that I can then hear that the Danish People's Party is ready to work with. - Sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl doesn't even hear that it's a little bit crazy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141142	Absolutely not. There are people who have fled because they consider to be directly threatened, and then there are people who have fled or migrated from their country because they think that the circumstances of that country with acts of war and such things are of a nature so that they cannot be there; but they are not personally persecuted. And those we are talking about here specifically in relation to the decisions of the Refugee Board are, after all, the latter category. These are the ones that Mrs Rosa Lund saw fighting for, and despite the fact that it has been legally assessed in one way or another, they must still be allowed to stay in Denmark. I mean, I really think that this is a totally failed policy, and that will mean that we do not have a refugee policy that is linked.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141219	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141221	Thank you. Well, I understand that Mr. Knox... Kristian Thulesen Dahl believes that Denmark should work with the Assad regime in relation to forced repatriations. That is why I would just like to hear: how great war crimes must be committed as a dictator, how violent a dictator one must be, in order that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl will say that no, it is immoral for Denmark to conclude agreements with such a dictator?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141247	I won't be able to make a bid for that. Well, I think it has to be based on an assessment. But I agree with that, sir. Mads Fuglede said from the platform a moment ago that there is no indication that Assad is not the leader of Syria for a while ahead of us, and what is just our command is that it should not be a self-table for Syrians living in this country whether they want to go home or not. But it is an assessment of whether they are actually persecuted or not persecuted, and if they are considered not to be persecuted, they must, of course, return to Syria, like the 140 000 people from the immediate region who have returned to Syria in the last few years of their own operation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141321	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141322	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl cannot judge where the border is, he says. But is there even a border that Assad has not broken, in relation to how unpleasant a dictator you can be, and that Denmark can then still enter into cooperation with people?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141337	Well, I can put it in that way that we have the view that we think Syria should be rebuilt. We believe that Syria should be rebuilt by the Syrians who are in Syria, and probably also by some help that must come from outside, but indeed also by some of the people who can be said to be Syrians in Denmark and other countries who return to Syria and help rebuild it. So we have the command that Syria should be rebuilt. This is the only way to make this work lastingly, and if Assad is the leader in Syria for at least a few decades, it is of no use that we say that this cannot happen while he is the head of Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141407	I had actually closed to the platform, but sir... Kristian Hegaard has asked for the floor, and of course he will. I have then made the assessment that the Minister has been on the floor once and that we have actually used the short remarks that are possible and, if you give priority to this, it goes beyond the Minister's time, and I think it is quite fine that this is the priority that is being made. Here you go, sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141427	Thank you for that, and what made me press me was that I was somewhat concerned that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl claims that we must cooperate with a dictator who has a great deal of violence against the civilian population on his conscience. That is why I just want to know whether the Danish People's Party believes that there are no limits at all to who to cooperate with, and that, regardless of what attacks some regimes commit on their people, they should be recognised and cooperation agreements should be drawn up with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141455-2	No, I would not say that, but one can mention Saudi Arabia, Iran, conditions in Afghanistan, clan regime around Somalia, and I think that many places will be found where things are certainly unpleasant. But I am just saying that there is no point in a Syrian who is not personally persecuted in Denmark and who is here because there has been a situation in Syria that made it impossible to be there for a period, not on an equal footing with those in the vicinity, to return to Syria. Of course they must, and we must be able to put that through, and if we do not want to talk to the Assad regime in any way, perhaps by saying that we are providing aid for reconstruction, but that the condition is also that some of these people can return, then we can risk that we cannot put it through. And that's what I'm saying we have to be able to do, because otherwise it's really a roof-top, whether you want to be in Denmark, or if you don't want to be in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141541	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141542	If you think you should make an agreement with Assad with the knowledge we have about the abuses he has committed on the civilian population, then I just want to know if Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl may mention some countries with which cooperation agreements are not to be concluded and thus recognised. Are there any countries with which cooperation agreements should not be drawn up?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141608	Well, maybe it is. We have to look at that when those countries come up. Now we take a position on the situation around Syria, and there are approx. 30,000 Syrians in Denmark who, as they are estimated to be able to return, must also return. And it is in order to put it through that we believe that we will have to talk quite specifically about how we can then start a dialogue with the regime in Syria to ensure that these Syrians cannot choose for themselves whether to go back, but that we can ensure and put through that they will actually end up coming back.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141633	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141642	Thank you. The position of the government in my optics is completely incomprehensible, and it is not from a strategic perspective, because I fully agree that you want to appear as tight as possible, but it is from a human perspective. Refugees now have their residence permits withdrawn for the purpose of returning to Syria, and this happens, despite the fact that Denmark is going alone, that the UN disagrees with our assessment that the United States warns against sending people to Syria and, most importantly, that security is, to put it mildly, questionable. The government is asking people to move to Bashar al-Assad's dictatorship and thus return to an insecure life in a war-torn country at risk of persecution and violence. And how can the government do that? Yes, but it can do so because of the legislation adopted by a majority in this House in 2015, which allowed refugees to return to countries where the situation is still unstable and security is questionable. The SF didn't make that legislation, and good for it, because the horror scenario has come true here. We have a government and a united right wing that will send people back to Syria, where conditions are fragile and unpredictable, just to use the Minister's own words. I have met several of those who will be sent out, such as Faeza and Aya, who have been in the media a lot, and I have also met people like Mohammed, whose father and uncle were killed in Syria and who will now see her sisters and her mother pressured to go back there or rot in an exit center, which is probably a more likely scenario. It is disgraceful, and it scares me that these human fates are no more in the minds of Christiansborg, and I must also say quite frankly that I was ruined after talking to these people, not only about their terrible stories from the past.Some of them, unfortunately, have many refugees, including some, whom it is okay to send back, but especially when I hear about how much they fear for the future for themselves or for their family members. It is terrible, especially because it is a fear that is justified in my optics and we should be able to agree that they should not be subjected to any more misfortune. I would like to thank the brave people who stand up and tell their stories in this matter, and the many ordinary citizens and organisations and activists who stand up and resign. You do in my optics Denmark honor. On top of that, we have the whole case of the reports underlying the safety assessment, and we have called for consultation from the SF, and I look forward to that very much. Overall, this is a wild case with a huge impact on people's lives, which is why I would also like to thank Enhedslisten for having called for this urgent request. I hope that the majority in this House will come to their senses. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505141959	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why we can go further. That is why I would just like to say that we have 32 minutes for those who have to ask for the floor, so we are still about gone. 10 minutes, so there is room for three or four brief comments along the way. I keep trying to keep it as up to date as I can about this. But now we move on to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505142123	Thank you for the floor, President. Recently I met Aya, Faeza and Mahmoud, three young people who had had their residences removed. Aya is stumbled close to the summer's student hat, the sweet student time, it is a well integrated young woman she has been in Denmark for 5 years, goes to school and is about to get on the student cart. She has done her utmost to learn Danish and become integrated, she has not committed crime. What else can she do? She has nothing in Syria except memories of the bombs that fall close to school. Her family has contradicted the Assad regime, and what do you think the Assad regime will do if she returns? I'm afraid to think the tank. It's heartless to send Aya back into Assad's arms. There's Faeza. Faeza is training as a nurse, and Denmark lacks nurses. Faeza's father fled Syria for opposing the Assad regime as a conscientious objector. Faeza's father cannot therefore be sent to Syria as he is in danger, and in addition other Syrian men aged 18-42 can usually stay in Denmark because they are in danger of being recruited to the Assad regime. But Faeza has been deprived of his residence permit, and what do you think the Assad regime is doing to the family members of those who have opposed the regime? I'm afraid to think the tank. Then there's Mahmoud. Shortly after Mahmoud came to Denmark, he applied to work at McDonald's. He got a trial period of 2-3 months, but already after a month he was permanently employed, paid taxes, paid to the community, paid to the welfare state. After a few years at work he now goes to a slaughterhouse school, he loves to work, he couldn't imagine not working. These are the people we are talking about, the people that it is about, real people, and the well-integrated people want someone to pat on. That is why it was incomprehensible that the government started the slap hunt in June 2020 by bringing forward the case of Syrian refugees, and that press release mentions one report, the so-called country report. That report cannot therefore be insignificant, since it is the only report mentioned in its political decision to bring matters forward. So let us take a closer look at that report. On page 3, there's a so-called disclaimer. It says that the terminology of the report should not be used to establish legal positions, it says that the report cannot be used for the issue of asylum, and it says that 12 special sources have been selected and they have been carefully selected. But one by one, like in the song about the ten riders, the springs have dropped off. They cannot support the content of the report to which they have been specifically chosen to contribute. One who can nevertheless support it is one of Assad's own friends, and how surprising that he can support that report. Denmark, as the only country, should not systematically take the basis of residence from Syrian war refugees; it makes no sense to go alone. Thanks to all those who are currently contributing to the properness of Danish politics, organizations, volunteers and others, the fight does not end here, thanks for fighting for Aya, Faeza, Mahmoud and others.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505142532	Thank you. We have noted three too brief remarks: Sikandar Siddique, Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Marcus Knuth, and I will then end the brief remarks in this round. Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505142542	Thank you to the rapporteur. As I also said to my good colleague, Mrs Lund, I know one hundred per cent that the rapporteurs are personally and politically completely concerned about this, and if it were to be addressed to the rapporteurs, they would never send these refugees home at any rate as things stand right now. Nevertheless, the rapporteurs belong to some groups which, of course, form the basis of the government. This question is even more relevant to the rapporteur, because the rapporteur's party helped to establish a legal basis for sending these Syrian refugees home. So my open question to the rapporteur is: what does the Radical Left intend to do now to make up for the mistake that you yourself made in 2015? What are you gonna do for Aya and Faeza now? How far will it go to ensure that they are not sent home for torture and war and destruction?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505142645	Thank you. Then we will have an answer from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505142646	In relation to the basic issue, I can say that the Radical Left does not form the basis for the government's policy on foreigners, just as the Danish People's Party did not form the basis for the former government's EU policy. The present government will gain its majority in favour of the monstrous policy being pursued here elsewhere. Radical Left voted in favour of Paragraph 7 of the Aliens Act. 3, in 2015, because we thought there was more refugee pressure than what came. But it has never been our intention that the law should be administered in the way it has happened, in which case proceedings are actually brought forward; nothing was said about that at the time. The fact that we are working on creating the possibility of compulsory broadcasts as soon as possible, which I received an answer on 29 April a few days ago, or that Denmark should go on its own, has never been the intention. When the review clause was removed in 2018, we were already critical. We're still gone, and that's why we think the law needs to be changed. It must reflect the legislation in the countries around us, and education must count by extending the basis of residence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505142748	Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505142749	You could read Saturday, April 24, at noon. 14.22 in Berlingske: Radicals were warned of the law which now opens up the broadcasting of Syrians. The response to the hearing made this clear. Among other things: The Institute for Human Rights made it clear in the hearing answer that this could be the consequences of it. Let us not dwell on the fact that that mistake was made or that you did not know it. How far will the Radical Left now go to ensure that Aya and the other Syrian refugees are not sent back?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505142822	Thank you. We now have an answer from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505142823	I promise we'll continue to fight. I think it is fantastic to see organisations, volunteers and others fighting and holding demonstrations, etc., and I can guarantee that the Radical Left will fight with them so that the policy being pursued is not meaningless and heartless.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505142841	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505142843	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Hegaard uses his rapporteur's speech to draw real people forward and to describe how the three real people are being hunted down. Well, then, sir. Kristian Hegaard himself offered up for dancing. Well, then, sir. Kristian Hegaard did not confirm that the Syrians were the group of foreigners who committed the most rapes last year?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505142903	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505142904	Now I only had four minutes to speak, and I would be honest to say that if I had had more time, I would also say that, unfortunately, there is also over-representation in crime statistics and under-representation in employment statistics when it comes to foreigners. That is why we must take action when it comes to integration, so that we do not see such over-representation in crime statistics, because it is unsustainable. We must not accept this, and we must take a firm stand against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505142934	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505142935	Now the Radical Left is a party that speaks very much for the rule of law and for principles and things and matters. That's why it's just thought-provoking that Mr. Kristian Hegaard chooses to use his rapporteur's speech to say: Now we have to talk about real people. Then I say that we should also talk about real people when it comes to rapes in Denmark. And if it was the Syrians who were most of last year, that is to say by foreigners in Denmark, compared to the group that has at least been convicted of rape, then Mr. Kristian Hegaard, in any case, has it in his speech. So now I am glad that we have had the opportunity to have a few brief comments here in relation to showing the Danes that this is also a part of the discussion we will have to take in relation to foreigners here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505143007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505143009	I think it is a quite relevant question to ask, so what do we do with those who commit rape in Denmark? For it is one of the most disgusting, cross-border and intimate crimes imaginable at all. That is why it must be vigorously tackled, regardless of who commits them. What just cannot be fair in a rule of law is that it must go against Aya, Faeza and Mahmoud when some others cannot behave properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505143033	Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505143035	Thank you. Now the Radical Left itself helped to get this law in place around §7 paragraph. 3 and temporary stay, and it was clear, also in the hearing answer, etc., exactly when and how this law could be applied, not least because at that time we were in a situation where there were a lot of people coming here from Syria. So if it's not in a situation like this, where there's going to be peace in Syria, and where we're going to want people back to Syria, that is, if it wasn't in this situation where you could imagine that you would use §7 paragraph. Three-law, what exactly did Radicals imagine?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505143109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505143110	Peace in Syria is probably just the way to tighten it up, sir. Marcus Knuth. What did not say at the time was that we wanted to administer the legislation in the way we are doing now, namely by deciding politically to bring things forward and by saying politically that we want to carry out forced broadcasts as quickly as possible. Because that means recognising the regime and making an agreement with Assad. The Radical Left cannot vouch for this in any way whatsoever. At that time it did not appear that Denmark had to go on its own. Therefore, the Radical Left has been critical since 2018 when there was a review clause in relation to it, which is why we are still critical and therefore we would still like to change the law. Among other things: training must also mean more in relation to the extension of residence. The legislation we have today is heartless and meaningless.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505143155	Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505143156	Well, then let me follow up on sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's question. Sir. Kristian Hegaard says he only had 4 minutes, and therefore he could only mention Aya, Faeza and Mahmoud, but next time Mr. Kristian Hegaard speaks to the media and has more than 4 minutes, Mr. Kristian Hegaard then give me the floor to mention some of the many male Syrians who just commit rape or crime or break-in or are unemployed, instead of mentioning these three people over and over again?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505143223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505143224	I promise to have a fair balance in this debate. There are well-integrated people that we need to take care of, who contribute to Denmark, who contribute to the community and who train, work and do it very well. Then there are people who commit crime, and there we must work together to find out how we are going to deal with it hard. It is not fair that there are people who commit crime, especially not vile crime such as rape and other things. I don't want this to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505143251	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Kristian Hegaard and move on. Sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505143326	Thank you, sir. President. I'll try to make this short. We're under that time pressure. The point of view of the Conservative People's Party is very clear: when our authorities consider that as a refugee you no longer have a need for protection, you must of course return home. This is precisely the case for hundreds of Syrians who have been temporarily resident under Section 7.3. We see that tens of thousands of people I believe, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl clarified this by 140,000 ▪ based on figures from the United Nations, by Syrians from nearby areas now themselves voluntarily traveling home. So the situation speaks its own language. The Syrians who have taken up residence in Denmark have received free education, free welfare, they have been given work, they have been strengthened their skills • all benefits, which of course you have to take home, back to the Syrians, and help rebuild your country. The Syrians who have been resident here in Denmark have known from day one that asylum is temporary. Those who are here on section 7.3 have always known that when conditions in Syria allow, they should return home. So this can't come as a big surprise. We believe that now is the right time, it certainly assesses our authorities, and we have confidence in them, otherwise we risk that the asylum system will become a kind of fast-track system for first permanent stay and then citizenship. I can't let that happen. We are in favour of the text adopted by Mr Seligman on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505143453	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505143512	Thank you. Politicians who want to attract or maintain migrants from Muslim countries undermine Danes' freedom and security. The migration crisis in 2015, when migrants rushed across the Danish borders and up our motorways, is the biggest political failure of my lifetime. As a bourgeois it was particularly painful to witness the failure of a bourgeois Left Government with DF as the largest party in the blue block. Thousands of migrants traveled through many safe countries in search of the welfare state to the north. They crossed our borders, they weren't stopped. Despite promises of immediate slowing down and taking care of Denmark only six months earlier at the 2015 elections, not a single party in the bourgeois camp said it wasn't. On the contrary. They sat on their hands and let it happen. It is simply a failure that I will never forget a failure that has changed Denmark forever. And as one could predict, it is extremely difficult for the same politicians who let migrants in to ensure that migrants now leave the country again. That is what the debate is about today. This is a debate that we would not have had to have at all if Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl in 2015 had been their responsibility grown up and rejected the migrants on the border. It is their responsibility, it is their failure. Today, six years later, we know the first consequences of the failure, and that is not good. Too many Syrian men are criminals, too many Syrian women live on public support. A new report from the Ministry of Justice shows that the number of rapes in recent years has increased significantly. Almost one in four of the convicted people has foreign nationality, and Syria is no. 1 on this sad list of foreign nationalities of people convicted of rape in the last few years in Denmark. In the statistics on violent crime, the Syrians are also significantly over-represented. Over the same period, expenditure on non-Western immigrants and descendants has risen sharply. This is not least due to the lack of will and ability of Muslim migrants to fit into the Danish labour market. If we look at the participation of Syrians in the labour market, the figures are, to say the least, sad. Only four out of ten Syrians who came to Denmark in 2015 have come to work today. Among Syrian women between the ages of 30 and 59, three out of four live as full-time recipients on public support. The Syrians were granted a residence permit in the midst of an economic recovery. There has been a demand for labour for several years, and foreigners from Eastern European countries in particular have come here during the same period and have managed to enter the Danish labour market, contribute positively to the economy and support themselves, without knowing the Danish language. It is in this light that the extremely low participation of Syrians in the labour market must be seen. Violence, rape and unemployment cannot and must not live with us. That is why the influx must be stopped. Criminal foreigners must be expelled and foreigners who do not support themselves must have withdrawn their residence permit. Those who are in Denmark on a temporary residence permit must, of course, leave when this residence permit expires. The Syrian migrants should never have had a residence permit in view, they should have had the necessary assistance in the vicinity via the UN system. They shouldn't have been allowed into Denmark, but in 2015 they were the politicians who had the power to resign. Us, who saw the disaster rolling across Denmark's borders in the media, had to understand at DF • the then largest party in the blue block that if you put a hard fight against a demand for an asylum freeze, you would risk that the then prime minister, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen made choices. That's the excuse we've had to listen to ever since. What happened? Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen threw bourgeois cooperation under the bus, went to Marrakesh and signed a Marrakesh declaration. That's what you've caused Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505143930	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505143933	It has been an easy speech to write, because it is just a repetition of a speech that Mrs Pernille Vermund has made hundreds of times. It is, of course, all right to use the time in Parliament for that. I would just like to ask Mrs Pernille Vermund whether she cannot confirm that while in Denmark there are probably about 30,000 Syrians, whom we in the Danish People's Party think should go back to Syria, there are some 530,000 Syrians in Germany and in Sweden 110,000, and that the situation that back in 2015 Syrians came to Denmark was used to ensure that the then Foreign and Integration Minister, Mrs Inger Køjberg, and the Danish People's Party, with a punch on the bag, had 100 tightenings carried out and had a border check carried out. It is just to get those nuances into Mrs Pernille Vermund's repetition speech at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505144019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505144019-2	I would like to acknowledge that a lot of tightening has been carried out. The only problem is that it has not solved the problems. Today we are faced with massive problems because you were sitting on your hands because you were not willing to take that fight with Lars Løkke Rasmussen. It was believed that he was the best alternative to a man who today says: I would rather cooperate with the Radical Left and the Social Democrats than I would cooperate with the bourgeois parties. That was the man you held your hand under. The price for that was that thousands of migrants came here, migrants who probably never come out again, migrants who will live here, have children and influence our society forever.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505144055	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505144056	I do not really know whether it was really a confirmation that it is probably 530,000 Syrians in Germany and 110,000 in Sweden and 30,000 in Denmark. It just says a little about how we have stood in a different place from Germany and Sweden, that fewer people have arrived in Denmark, and that after 2015 the situation was used to tighten up considerably, including border controls. I just think that somewhere should be included in Mrs Pernille Vermund's speech, so that Mrs Inger Løjberg as the then Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and the Danish People's Party used the opportunity to implement all these things. Instead of just standing outside and shouting and screaming, it is nice enough to be able to show that some of the restrictions that I think we all think are necessary are actually being implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505144132	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505144133	But now it is the case that the Left had the power and that DF was the largest party in the blue block when the migrants came. They didn't come from one day to the next. They traveled through several safe countries to come to Denmark. After all, we saw what happened up through Europe and you sat on your hands. It is absolutely true that other countries are suffering worse. It just doesn't help the Danish victims of rape, it doesn't help the Danish victims of violence, and that doesn't mean that we don't have a massive challenge in Denmark because you were sitting on your hands because you didn't dare to fight with Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. You wavered and you failed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505144206	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505144223	Thank you for the floor. I shall be brief so that the last speakers who have signed up can also have a chance to say what they think. There are several reasons why we welcome this debate. First of all, we think it is positive that the principle of temporaryity from 2015 and the paradigm shift from 2018. It appears as a conclusion from the debate. Of course, we find it regrettable that the Radical Left no longer stands by the law they adopted as part of the government in 2005. It could of course also be exciting to have a comprehensive list of other laws which the Radical Left has voted for and which they do not support either. Secondly, we think it is a good thing that the Danish Parliament is resisting the temptation to go to trial and to override the system for dealing with refugee cases that we have with the National Council for Refugees and the Refugee Board. That is why I also find it strange that parties such as the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten, which are usually more busy, I think, than any other party in arresting conditions that do not follow the book, are doing as they do, because the principle of arm's length is clearly violently violated here. In this regard, it should be noted that the contested tax rulings do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty, since they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. But these arms obviously have variable geometry, and here they've reached tyrannosaurus rex length. You can see that clearly in this case. All in all, however, we are pleased to be able to endorse the motion for a resolution tabled by the Socialist Group, and I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505144422	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505144443	If you have read Hannah Arendt, the very clever Jewish writer, politologist, thinker and philosopher, you will, as a starting point, have very difficulty with the concept of temporary nature in relation to refugees. Hannah Arendt left Germany in 1933 and went to Paris and later to the United States, and she has very carefully described the homelessness and what it does to people that she felt until she got an American citizenship in 1950. But if we now recognise the temporary nature of Danish legislation and we have to do so, since it is Danish law I think it is appropriate to mention what I put forward in my question to Mr. Mads Fuglede from the Left, because I myself am a former Leftman, and because I have discussed a great deal with many people about whether the excuse presented by Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen on this day, May 5, 2015 was appropriate or not. In my world picture, it was one of the proud moments in the history of the Left, because one took on history and accepted inheritance and debt and recognized that until 1938 Jewish refugees were received and sent back and from 1938 no Jews would be brought into the country, so they were rejected at the border. The story, which is not the fairest and proudest in Danish history, took on the then Prime Minister and apologized for it. I cannot help asking myself whether one day we will find ourselves in the situation where there will be some Syrian refugees whom we will send an apology. Because what we do is send people down to terms we don't know anything about. We cannot give anyone any guarantees in a regime in which there is a dictator, on whom the Danish Government and hopefully the majority of parties in this House agree, should be brought before a war criminal court • a war criminal regime which we know has done things worse than what we have gone to war for in other contexts. I think that calls for a little reflection. I can hear you pushing the Refugee Board in front of you. We have confidence, they say. Sir. Marcus Knuth, Rasmus Stoklund, yes, everyone says: We trust the Refugee Board. This was then not achieved in 2016, because then the decisions of the Refugee Board were so little trusted that it was voted to change the composition of the Refugee Board when the then Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration Inger Løbberg submitted a bill that took the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Danish Refugee Aid out of the equation. So the confidence you have in the Refugee Board today, I can only say that you did not then have a slightly different approach to things, and I think that is all in all sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505144855	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505144857	Thank you. It is convenient, if you want sympathy for a cause, to draw the persecution of Jews into it. After all, the reality is that if the people who come from the Muslim countries had adapted to the Danish society as well and contributed with just as good values or just half as good values as the Jewish communities and the Jewish population did, we would not discuss this; then that would not be a problem. Then they would have become an integral part of our society, and we would even say: What can we do to take better care of you? The dilemma is that this is not the case. The dilemma is that the people who have come here as a result of a misguided immigration policy, which dates back to the Aliens Act of 1983, are creating major challenges: they do not integrate into our labour market and they commit far too much crime. Does the rapporteur not recognise this and does the rapporteur not recognise that it seems rather bizarre to compare it with the situation of Jews in the 30s and 40s?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505144950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505144952	If Mrs Pernille Vermund wants to discuss German history with me as a German, we can spend a few hours on it. It was certainly not the interpretation of what the Jews were like. There was absolutely no idea that the Jews were adapting. That's why they were followed. When the Russian Jews came here in the 1880s and until 1914 there came 10,000 people, the Danish authorities did everything they could to get these Jews to move on; so there were only 3,000 left. And in the 30s several on the right, including Conservative Youth, wrote that Hitler had a Jewish problem, and that it had to be solved. The literature is full of evidence. So the interpretation by Mrs Pernille Vermund of the perception of the Jews in the 1930s is simply historically wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505145056	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505145057	Now the difference between the rapporteur and myself is that perception and reality are two different things. I recognize that. The rapporteur is perhaps more concerned with perception than with reality. I'm dealing with reality. For me, Jewish society has always been a contributing and valuable part of our society. I do not understand that you can have the opposite view, but I understand that, in relation to the people who have come from the Muslim countries, it is said that there is something there that is harmful and that we cannot continue an asylum policy that continues to destroy our country. Does the rapporteur really not recognise that there is a difference between the two groups, not in perception, but in reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505145136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505145137	Mrs Pernille Vermund, I simply do not find myself in the strawman argument that I should take the view that the Jews do not contribute to Danish society. I never said that, and I could never dream of saying that never! But there was a reason why the Jews were persecuted then, and that was that they among other things. were accused of exactly the same and the same stereotypes were laid over the Jewish community that Mrs Pernille Vermund lays out over the people who are Muslims. That is the reality we are facing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505145208	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Thank you for your cleaning, sir. Jens Rohde. Then it's Mrs. Inger Løjberg, outside the Groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505145245	I was Minister for Foreign Affairs when the great reputation of Syrian refugees and migrants came to Denmark, and I therefore also know exactly what the agreement between them and us Danes was. The agreement was that we, in other words Denmark, protected them while the crisis raged, but that they would then of course also have to leave when possible. The time has therefore come for some to begin the journey home now to return home to rebuild Syria. That was the agreement in its entirety, and the Syrian refugees have a moral obligation to meet without objections, without questions, but in gratitude to the Danish people. It was also the case that while they were in Denmark, the agreement was that you would have to work and that young people could also be allowed to train. I can easily understand that in many ways it is both better and more pleasant to be here in Denmark than in Damascus. But Denmark is not the homeland of Syrian refugees; it is Syria. We have a very robust and fine-meshed and good system in Denmark, both when deciding whether to have asylum in this country, and also when deciding that the residence permit should be withdrawn again. And I think it is important to say that as long as some refuse to follow the decision of the authorities that they should go home, they take the place of someone else who needs it more. And it is the case that unfortunately there are a great many refugees in the world, and that is why it is also going to hurt some others when Syrians, without need for protection, refuse to give up their place here in Denmark, and frankly I do not think that one can be familiar with that. Therefore, I would like to say directly to the Syrian refugees: Now is the time for some of you to go home - home and rebuild your homeland.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505145503	A brief comment from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505145505	Thank you. I certainly do not believe that, if the Danish People's Party had overturned Mrs Inger Løjberg back there when she was Minister, we would have stood in a better place today, because I actually think, Mrs Inger Løjberg as Foreign Minister, did a good job and that we had a good cooperation. What brings me to the floor is that, sir. Mads Birdede said about how we can then also put action behind words so that we ensure that those Syrians who have a moral obligation to return to Syria also actually end up doing so. There were some thoughts about whether or not we could say that we are helping with reconstruction and the like in Syria, but, on the other hand, we should also be willing to withdraw our citizens. We are getting along the path that is also about the fact that we are not actually powerless as a society in relation to also putting through our desire for these Syrians to actually end up back in Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505145548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505145548-2	I'd like to be honest with you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has a point in this. But it is also the case that I find it very difficult to see personally that Denmark is now, it can be said, engaging in negotiations with the Syrian regime. That is why we end up there, and the debate has also revolved a little earlier today, that we will, unfortunately, have to put a lot of pressure on these Syrian former refugees until they choose to leave the country. That pressure must then lie in exit centres and in, yes, to say it as it is, rigid rules until they decide to go home.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505145635	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505145636	If that is the path one chooses, then it is also a question of having some exit centres or home-travel centres that are actually not so nice to be on to make you want to go home. And then we are back to the idea of the island of Lindholm and probably also the government's lack of action in relation to what the alternative to, for example. Kærshovedgård and other places you have today are. So, of course, I think that's a clue to walk out of. Is Mrs Inger Løjberg as frustrated as I am that no progress has been made when, as the government had promised?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505145709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505145709-2	To be honest, I am frustrated that the government has abandoned our plans to build an exit centre on the island of Lindholm. I think it was the right place to set up an exit centre. That is why I am waiting in excitement, and I think there are a lot of Danes who do, to hear: Where does this exit centre come, and how do you remedy the pressure that is around Kærshovedgård, which we simply cannot be familiar with?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505145737	Thank you to Mrs Inger Løjberg. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505145803	Thank you for the floor, President. On May 5, 1945, we were freed from the occupation force. Yesterday we lit candles to remember. One of the things we were proud of, something we are proud of, is that we helped the Jews. We smuggled them over to Sweden. We were proud of the resistance, of the humanity, of the empathy we showed at the time. Denmark was the first country in the world to sign the Refugee Convention. The first country in the world. And today we are the first country in Europe to send Syrians back to war, destruction, torture. Guys, this is a moral slip we've been through, which I think is embarrassing and which I think is unworthy. I think it's unfair. So here, at the end of the debate, I would like to call on the parliamentary parties, the government and the support parties to stop the plans to send our Syrian fellow citizens home. It is the government that is planning it and there is a majority in favour of it. The support parties must draw a line in the sand and say: Enough is enough, we will not put up with it. We must have the humanity and empathy back in Danish politics. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505145952	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique. No brief remarks. And as I understood from the President, the urgent question is now closed by the fact that it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Rosa Lund, who is coming to the floor to close the urgent question. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150012	Thank you. I would like to thank you for a debate at least. There is no doubt, I think, that this is an issue that concerns us very much, but from each of our angles. It remains from my chair that the biggest problem is section 7, paragraph 7. 3, in Danish Aliens' Act. The government can't, no matter how much you want to, push the authorities in front of you. It is a political responsibility. We can change it politically from in here, and I hope that today's debate has made it clear that we would like to be included in the Enhedslisten. I have a feeling this isn't the last time we're discussing this situation. But thank you for today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150101	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed amendments will not take place until Thursday 6 May, i.e. tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150121	Then we have to move on to the agenda where we have come for Question Time. I shall begin by telling you that Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen (V) under no. 5) addressed questions to the Minister for Health (pm. No. S 1420) is deleted at the request of the author.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150141	The first question has been asked by Mr. Sikandar Siddique, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150144	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150147	Thank you. First of all, thank you to the Minister for coming up and answering the questions. The question is: will the Foreign Minister take the initiative that the Folketing, in the form of a letter or statement, denounce India's violent behaviour towards demonstrating farmers and violation of UN human rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150214	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150216	Thank you, and thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique for the question. From the European Union and from Denmark, we are following the situation regarding the peasant demonstrations in India. I understand that these are legislative changes which aim to liberalise the agricultural market in India, which has triggered these prolonged protests and demonstrations in and around the capital city of New Delhi. As regards the handling of the demonstrations by the Indian authorities, like my written reply, Section 20, No. Nos 843 and 843 844, stress that access to information and expressions of opinion and peaceful protests are, of course, and should be, an essential part of a democracy. It is also a matter which the European Union is following closely. On 12 April, the EU conducted a human rights dialogue with India. It has been a high priority on the Danish side for the EU and India to resume regular human rights dialogue. During the dialogue on 12 April, the EU expressed its concern at the room for manoeuvre of civil society activists, human rights defenders and journalists. On 8 May, the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union will hold an EU-India summit, and the human rights issue is expected to be part of the summit, for which we in Denmark have worked, and I am convinced that the human rights issue is best addressed through dialogue, which is why I am pleased that the European Union and India have agreed to resume annual human rights dialogues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150344	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150345	It is, of course, very crucial and important to have ongoing dialogues, but here we are talking about a minority, we are talking about the Sikhs in India, a minority which has historically been suppressed, and right now we are witnessing what is called the world's greatest demonstration in history, where communication is being shut down, where young children are being arrested, where the population is being brutally beaten down, simply restricting people's freedom of expression. Is it not the Minister's view that we have a very special situation here which should trigger a very special reaction from Denmark that these human rights violations must stop and that they must stop right now so that the Sikhs in India and those who protest, the farmers, the farmers, are treated properly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150447	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150449	I fully share the view that a country such as India must also respect human rights, which is why it is also important that in the dialogue we have with India, not least in relation to the EU-India dialogue, we now have a human rights element in what can take up human rights with India, also actively. This is something Denmark has worked for, and it is something that we think is important. I believe that we stand strongest when we stand together and together in the European Union in relation to having a dialogue on human rights. This annual EU-India dialogue is a good tool for this, and I also expect, as I said, that it will be part of the summit here in May.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150531	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150532	But I would still like to dwell on my question. Because it is quite right and proper that this ongoing dialogue should take place, but given that we have, right now and in the short space of time, begun green strategic cooperation with India and this historic event, that is what Mr. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150608	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150609	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique. I would like to emphasise that, and this is clear from the Green Strategic Partnership, to which reference is also made, which we entered into with India in September last year, and I have also previously informed the Danish Parliament that, for example, I have been informed. has discussed the situation in Kashmir with the Indian Foreign Minister, just as a case of Amnesty International's activities in India has been raised at official level. So it's
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150638	Sir. Sikandar Siddique for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150639	In conclusion, I would like to ask, following on from the answers, whether it is the Minister's view that farmers, farmers, in India are being allowed right now to use their freedom of expression and their freedom of assembly. Is that the Minister's view?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150700	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150701	What is important to me is that, when there are issues of human rights, violations, lack of access to information, etc., we raise that dialogue with India. Through the EU-India Summit, which is here on 8 May, we have done so in the past, and Denmark also does so as part of our strategic partnership with India. And, as I mentioned earlier, I myself, with the Indian Foreign Minister, have addressed human rights issues directly with India when there has been occasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150732	That answers the question. The next question has also been asked by Mr. Mr Sikandar Siddique to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150738	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150740	Thank you, Mr President. The question is this: what is the Foreign Minister's attitude to India's attacks on its own people in connection with the peaceful demonstrations held against the Indian Government's agricultural reforms, and will the Foreign Minister, for example? take the initiative that the Danish Government, like the Canadian and British parliaments, denounces the Operation Blue Star and recognises it as a genocide?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150807	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150809	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique. Like previous Danish governments, I will be reluctant to issue judgments on historical events. I do not therefore wish to go into any further analysis of the events which took place at the Sikh sanctuary, the Golden Temple, in 1984. As regards the question of the Indian authorities handling demonstrations in relation to the government's agricultural reforms, I would like to refer to my oral answer to question 1435 before and, as I said before, we are following the situation regarding the peasant demonstrations in India. As far as the handling of the demonstrations by the Indian authorities is concerned, I would like to stress, as in the past, that access to information and statements of opinion and peaceful protests are, of course, and should be, an essential part of a democracy, and this is also a matter which the European Union is following closely. In the EU's human rights dialogue with India on 12 April, the EU expressed its concern about the scope for civil society activists, human rights defenders and journalists, and human rights issues, as I mentioned earlier, are also expected to be part of the EU-India Summit here on 8 May, and I am convinced that these issues are best addressed through dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150921	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505150921-2	But, sir. Secretary of State, we are talking about Operation Blue Star, an operation that is a disgrace to humanity. We're talking about an operation that triggered an attack that killed 600 people during the attack, 9,000 Indian Sikhs were killed afterwards, 1,000 women were raped. Is it not so bad an event that, of course, we on the Danish side must be completely open to condemning the attack on the Sikhs, on minorities and on humanity by the Operation Blue Star?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505151012	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505151013	As I have said, like previous Danish governments, I will be reluctant to pass judgments on historical events. I shall therefore not go into such a detailed assessment of the events which took place at the Sikh sanctuary, the Golden Temple, in 1984. Denmark has traditionally and in principle not made the type of assessments that are being asked here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505151037	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505151038	But I know that the Foreign Minister is an experienced politician and I know that the Foreign Minister has strong positions on foreign policy issues. Therefore, it is obvious and therefore it is quite obvious to hear what the minister thinks of the Operation Blue Star if we cannot go in and categorize it as a genocide. But can we go so far as to say that Operation Blue Star was, of course, an attack on minorities that should never have taken place?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505151114	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505151115	It is not for me and the Danish Government to issue a judgment on historical events in the way that is asked. However, I would like to stress that, in general terms, we reject all human rights violations and also stop countries from signing conventions themselves which require them to respect human rights. We will continue to do so, and the best means of doing so is dialogue, and that is why I emphasise the important dialogue between the European Union and India, but in our own green strategic partnership with India there is also a human rights dialogue trail.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505151153	Sir. Sikandar Siddique for one last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505151154	Following on from the answer given here by the Foreign Minister, I think it is a pity; I would like the Foreign Minister to say in clear and clear terms that it was, of course, a disgrace that the Operation Blue Star was a disgrace and an attack on the Sikhs. As our cooperation grows and economic cooperation with India becomes a major player for us in terms of cooperation, does the Foreign Minister believe that there is a need for us to draw up a national strategy for cooperation in relation to human rights? Is this something that the Minister considers necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505151236	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505151238	Let me first welcome the Green Strategic Partnership with India. India may be, if you make a census, the world's most populous country, they compete with China for it, and an important part of the green transition, if we are to deliver on the climate struggle, is also that we have a close cooperation with India, and here Denmark and India can be each other's good partners. With regard to human rights and the issue of it, I believe in dialogue, and I also think it is very important that it is the European Union and India that take that dialogue, for example. is a summit. It's something where you can make a real difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505151310	Thanks to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the question has now been answered and thanks to Mr. Sikandar Siddique. The next question must be put to the Minister for Health and it must be asked by Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. And I'm gonna give you a minute to get the desk ready. That's so good, thanks for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505151335	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505151337	Thank you for that, President. Does the Minister agree that waste water tests are a valuable tool in terms of both faster and local detection of covid-19 and a much cheaper test method?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505151351	The Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505151354	Thank you for the question. Yes, I fully agree that waste water monitoring is another important tool for monitoring the epidemic. It is my clear expectation that the monitoring of waste water in the future will be able to act as an effective tool to detect increases in the level of covid-19 in society; of course, this is particularly true when we move to a phase where we no longer need to personally test to the same extent as we do at this stage of the epidemic. In the long term, waste water monitoring will, in all probability, contribute significantly to a wise monitoring system where we can keep a close eye on the development of the epidemic, while at the same time returning to a society that we know it and which we long for; a society that is based on freedom, where you can be with as many people as you want, wherever that is not the case at the moment, but that must be the case again, but also a society that is based on equality. Whether you are part of a risk group for serious illness for one reason or another, you must know that we stand together and help and are ready to help with prevention and also treatment when it comes to it. So these are the values that we have in our society and to which we also have to return. Therefore, we are now implementing, developing and evaluating the method and logistics for waste water monitoring in Denmark. I really think it is a tool that can help us get back to these strong values in our society. It is vitally important that our people also, at a time when we have vaccinated everyone and when we reach a new phase of this situation we are in, can feel safe and have a hundred percent confidence that we will soon be able to discover in future if there is new or increasing infection in society without having to go in and test each other twice a week, as we are almost doing at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505151554	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505151555	Thank you for your answer. It's no secret that I've been wondering for a few months. I think the Minister for Health has also become aware of this. In any case, I have held several consultations and also asked questions in this Chamber in the past about what is, as it were, the reason why, frankly, we have not acted more quickly on this matter. It is still the case that there are some things in which I think there is some ambiguity. In fact, at the last conciliation meeting, I had the Minister confirm that it is now being pushed into action and that the legislation now needs to be put in place; apparently through the Minister for Climate and Energy, that is to say, by moving that part to another committee. What I would like to ask a little bit about here in my next question is going a little on the economy itself in relation to the whole way we're testing. For a quick calculation, it shows that waste water detection was carried out in e.g. 300 wastewater treatment plants every day would cost about 3 million. kr. a week. And for comparison, 400,000 daily personal tests cost approx. 630 million kr. a week. That means that every week here there is a difference in the price of about half a billion. Then I would like to acknowledge that this is called boats and that you will not be able to drop the person tests completely, but hopefully you will be able to limit the number. Does the Minister not think in some way that the Minister and the government alone, when we look at the economy, should have used this tool much earlier when it comes to sewage tracking?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505151754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505151754-2	Yes, a comment on the first comment about where there would be legal basis if it were to be introduced nationally. It is the case that there is no legal basis today in the epidemic law for it. It is there for health authorities to do so, but if we are to impose this on the sector, there is no legal basis in any of the laws we have today. So it has to be changed. Where we end up changing the law, we need to be absolutely clear. It may well be the epidemic law that we need to change, but we need to look at that. Then there is the question of whether it should have been done more quickly. Well, we have continually asked the Statens Serum Institute whether it was necessary and relevant to do, and there they have said: Wait a minute. Now we are doing it and have some experience from Bornholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505151835	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505151836	It is, of course, the case that there are now several municipalities which, on their own initiative, it can be said, have started doing this. And yesterday morning, when I got off the train and went to the apartment here in Copenhagen, I was delighted that I had to bypass a van from HOFOR, which I think was in the process of establishing waste water monitoring. At least I sent it a thought because I knew that the City of Copenhagen put it into effect yesterday. How do you ensure that the information collected by the City of Copenhagen also becomes part of the large bank of information on waste water tracking?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505151917	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505151918	It is quite true that the state has contributed to the attempt that has been made on Bornholm. When we opened up, we also had waste water monitoring and massive testing and have some experience from it. But it is quite evident that those places in Denmark where you have also introduced it here as an experiment and have some experience and can measure it up directly with all the many tests that have also been made by the population in those areas, it must also be included in this collection of experience when we design it, in terms of whether we can do it at national level.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505151954	The questioner for the final round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505151955	In conclusion, I would just like to ask the Minister why it is not being pushed much faster simply. Now I understand that right now we are also discussing where the legislation should be in place. I know that the Committee on Climate and Energy as recently as yesterday, I think, also had a review of this area, and I am keeping a little eye on it in all committees, in relation to what is happening in this area. Could the Minister perhaps answer when the Minister thinks that the legislation can then be in place?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505152031	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505152031-2	Well, it is up to the Folketing, and it will require the Folketing to be ready to introduce the legislation. We will present this legislation as soon as possible. After all, it is a cooperation between two ministries, and then it is the Folketing that decides the timetable and other things. But if the Danish Parliament is prepared to decide to implement that legislation quickly, of course, with consultation etc., but do so quickly then the Ministry will just be happy about it, because then it can get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505152107	Thank you for answering the question. The next question is also to the Minister for Health and also to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505152115	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505152116	Thank you. Can the Minister deny that we could have reopened society earlier and more sensibly with national monitoring of our waste water, because in that case we would have had daily figures for the spread of infection and could have shut down completely locally where necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505152137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505152139	I have to say that I can reject that. After all, in Denmark we have built and developed one of the largest and most advanced testing systems in the world, and I think we must be honest in saying that this has proved to be the right strategy. We can see that we have far better control of the epidemic than in many, many other countries with which we usually compare ourselves. There are not so many differences, but it is a significant difference that we have the high test capacity and the great willingness of the population to be tested and then shut downs and tracing and everything else, we also have • and it is the Statens Serum Institut's assessment that waste water monitoring of covid-19 in autumn 2020 would not have contributed to further information in relation to the increasing incidence of covid-19 cases, precisely because we have tested so much. At present, the test effort and vaccine deployment are the elements that ensure that we can reopen Denmark as soon as possible while maintaining control of the epidemic, even if it grows slightly in these days. The Danish society is a society in which citizens can be confident that they can live their lives in security, freedom and security, and it is then the task of the state and the authorities to ensure that there is a proper and proper infrastructure for this to be done. It is therefore vital that citizens can be confident that new methods of handling covid-19 are properly investigated and used. That is why, as we talked about in the previous question, we are implementing, developing and evaluating the methodology and logistics for waste water monitoring in Denmark. It is currently a method that has not been sufficiently developed and tested to fully replace the extensive test effort. But that is precisely the aim of our work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505152330	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505152331	Thank you. I am well aware that it is not certain that we will be able to fully replace the human tests. Where I am still frustrated and looking for answers, when the Minister says that the Minister believes that it can be introduced when the pressure of infection is lower and we have gone further than the number of people infected with covid-19, then it will be perfectly obvious to introduce waste water monitoring in general and at national level. We had the same situation last autumn, i.e. when we had a period over the late summer, when fortunately the number of infections was low, and that is why I am still sitting in the back of the head if, if we had had and started waste water monitoring at that time, we could have prevented the infection from rising again. For what is fantastic, and as the Minister is now aware, when it comes to the detection of infection in waste water, it is, after all, that you get information about whether someone in the population has been infected several days before they actually get symptoms. That is why we could do more quickly and say that this is an area, among other things. In Ishøj, who has also had this tool in use, where it would probably be very clever for everyone in a particular rise or urban area to be personally tested, and therefore we might also have avoided that more or less people would have to ask so many Danes, 400,000 or so, daily to be tested through these sticks in their noses or throats, but perhaps instead could have ensured that the places where it was needed were tested, and elsewhere one could open up the society. Does the Minister not agree with what I am saying here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505152533	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505152534	There are two things I want to say to you. One is that the situation we are entering in the summer is very different from the situation we were at the last time, because now we have our vaccines. On the other hand, we also have a virus that has mutated in more ways than it was a year ago. So there's a big, big difference, and it's important when you compare. The second is that a large number of countries have put this into effect, and they have not succeeded in keeping the virus under control. So so far it's just a supplement and not something that can replace. It is the aim that it should be able to replace; it would be incredibly beneficial.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505152613	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505152614	As the Minister says, it is quite true that we are fortunately further ahead with the vaccines. We have now seen that the vaccine plan is moving, perhaps even towards November, before we are in the process of achieving our goal, so I hope that the Minister for Health will see that the sooner we get widespread detection of the infection in waste water throughout the country, the better so that we can, hopefully, also ensure that we can limit the decommissioning part if it increases with the infection by the autumn. That's why I can understand when, among other things... The European Union has been out to say that they strongly urge all Member States to introduce contamination detection in waste water in their countries. Does the Minister not agree that we should do this quickly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505152711	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505152712	Well, it just needs to be done wisely and properly. I have to arrest it a little bit, because it sounds on the questions here a little, like it's something that can replace it with stick in the nose and stick in the throat. I have been informed that a large number of countries are using it to a greater or lesser extent, for example. Hungary, Sweden, Spain, Latvia. These are countries on which it has just to be said that whether they have used this to a greater or lesser extent, it has not been possible to discover the covid-19 early enough in this third wave, which many of these countries have been hit by. That is why I do not think it can replace it at this stage, but the aim is that it would be good if it could.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505152750	The questioner for one last round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505152752	I think that is precisely why both I and the company Eurofins use the concept of boats and boats. It is clear that it is very important that you also have the personal tests, but I just think that the fact that you have rolled the infection detection into waste water both economically, but for that matter also in relation to the reopening would help both. Finally, what I would like to ask the Minister is whether he can see that this could be a huge advantage both financially and in relation to the reopening itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505152833	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505152834	Yes, I can, and that's why we're working on it. If the Danish Parliament backs it up and agrees to adopt this law, preferably before summer, then we can put it into a much larger scale and gain that experience. It's so good with the tests that it's really, really good, but no one dreams about and wants all Danes to be tested twice a week in the future. We have to move on to the other side of that situation, and there will be waste water testing that will be much more flexible and without any interference in the lives of each citizen every day, and that, of course, is where we have to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505152913	Thank you to the Minister for Health for answering the question and thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen and also for preparing the platform for the next question, which I do not see in the Chamber right now. That is, of course, more problematic at the moment. It's sir. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten, who has a question for the Minister for Health, and I am absolutely sure that the Minister for Health has prepared himself. And now I've really pulled it as long as I could. The question has been removed, and I am sorry. Thank you to the Minister for Health for answering the questions that have been asked. I saw the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly just a moment ago, so I know she's in the house. Maybe she's right in the back.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505153015	Thank you to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly for being ready, and I also see that the next question is ready, so that we have already reached Question No. 7. Here is the questioner, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505153018	Thank you. What is the Minister's position on the TV 2 documentary •Who should be my mother and father?• and what is the reason why one wants to increase the use of forced abortions and thus remove the child's right to know its biological source, rather than to apply less intrusive measures so that the child will have the right to maintain contact and know his biological source?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505153042	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505153043	Thank you for the floor. And thank you for the question. First of all, I believe that most people who saw the broadcast, just as I could not avoid being greatly affected by seeing the grief and impotence the parents in the documentary understandably feel when their child is not to live with them. There is no doubt that these are parents who have great love for their children. But although love is incredibly important to a child, it is unfortunately not enough if parents lack the ability to provide the child with the basic security and care that a child needs to be able to thrive and develop. I hope that the questioner understands that I do not have the opportunity to comment further on the specific case covered by the documentary. However, I would like to make it clear that when the Ankestyrelsen decides on adoption without consent in a case such as this, it must be because parents will never be able to care for the child and because the alternative to adoption is that the child is placed the rest of his or her upbringing. We are dealing here with some of the most vulnerable families; most often families already known by the system. And often there has been a process ahead of which parents have had one or more children removed due to neglect of their care. The decision of the Ankestyrelsen is made on the basis of various and very thorough studies of the parents' and the child's circumstances, and the parents' ability to care for the child is fully illustrated. The government believes that all children have the right to a safe and loving childhood. Unfortunately, we know that far too many children housed are experiencing a tumultarian upbringing with many changing locations. It's incredibly hard for a child not to belong anywhere, not to be able to take root. Therefore, the government wants more children placed in care to be given the opportunity to have a family that is not only on loan, by creating a better opportunity for adoption. There is no doubt that it is very intrusive to both children and parents, which is why it should not be used interchangeably. It should only be used when it is best for the child, and so it should be in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505153241	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505153242	At the same time as increasing the use of forced abortions, children are deprived of their right to know their biological origin. Perhaps the Minister can explain why it should be made easier to have children for compulsory adoption when this is already happening today. There is already an opportunity in the legislation, and we have seen a fairly large increase in recent years. If it's not to open up to force-bort multiple kids, then why is it? Because the municipalities are already doing so today. In relation to the documentary, I noticed subsequently that the Minister said that biological parents can apply for association with their forcibly adopted child. But there I would like to hear the Minister's answer to how many parents have succeeded. Now it may also be that there are siblings in these situations, and there we see that children, i.e. siblings, will need to have contact with each other. What will it be like in relation to forced abortions? You have to give up a child in one family and a new child in another family. Will the children then have the right to see their brothers and sisters? There is no doubt that it was a harsh documentary. In general, we in the Danish People's Party believe that there is a system failure of families and children. Parents are left on the platform and there are no high-quality preventive measures and we simply do not know what practical preventive measures are being taken. So these are some of the questions I would like answers to. Is it the government's objective to have more, or whether you want the right support measures, the right preventive work in this whole process? In the Danish People's Party we agree that not all children can or must live at home, but there is also the President who has risen, so now the Minister must answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505153458	[Sound emission]... now the time was well exceeded. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505153501	The Minister can also immediately state that I am not going to be able to answer all the very many questions that were at once. Parents loaded on the platform was one of the things that the rapporteur mentioned and that I took down here. There is no doubt that this is a violent experience for quite a lot of the parents who are giving up for adoption. Therefore, the municipalities must ensure that parents have had the opportunity to give consent, the Ankestyrelsen advises parents in writing on the effects of adoption, and then it is possible to have grief leave for 14 weeks after adoption. So we take care of the parents, but there's no doubt that quite a lot of these parents will be unhappy about the situation anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505153539	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505153541	After this broadcast, the minister says that parents can apply for association with their obsessively adopted child. But can the Minister tell me how many parents have succeeded? The Minister may answer that question. That is a specific question, and I shall stick to one and then the Minister will have to answer it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505153606	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505153607	Thank you. There were quite a lot of very specific questions, which is why I could not answer them all. After all, in the rules today, association can be established, but only if it is the best thing for the child. Therefore, it will be a concrete and individual assessment in the individual case whether it is best for the child to have association with the biological parents after an adoption, which is a full family change. I would like to send the final replies over in writing. I believe that the questioner has also received them in the course of the negotiations we are currently holding. But I am aware that no decision has been taken on association in any case. But it is only quite recently that the number of adoptions that we have had over the last two years has been seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505153647	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl for a final round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505153648	That's right. The minister is on TV saying that you can apply for this association, but the fact is that in reality you cannot, because in the cases we have seen, no one has ever had association. Then that is what the Minister says, while at the same time the Minister sees that there is love for a child. For the Danish People's Party, it is very important that you can see that there is interaction with and love for a child. Therefore, I do not understand why it is that parents cannot somehow play a role in their child's life, but that one should deprive a child of his right to know his biological source.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505153728	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505153728-2	For me, this is an absolutely fundamental principle, and I hope the rapporteur agrees that it is about what is best for the child. It is the child's right that the child is in his or her own right, and that is why, when specific assessments have been made in the case of the individual child, whether association will be detrimental to the child, whether it is the child's best interest that there should be association, one must assess not the wishes of the parents alone, but, of course, most importantly whether it is beneficial to the child. After all, not many children have been released over recent years for adoption, and so these will be very small numbers too, but the precise figures I do not have in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505153812	Thank you for answering the question. The next question is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 8, which is also addressed to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly and also by Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505153819	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505153820	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that parents' iqs not only have an enormous impact on whether you can be allowed to be parents to your child, but can also mean that parents and children are not given the opportunity to maintain any relationship in the future, because a low iq can be used as an argument for adoption away?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505153839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505153841	Thank you to the questioner for having an interest in this important area. First of all, I would like to make it clear once again that a decision on adoption in cases where adoption is due to parents' lack of care is always taken on the basis of an overall assessment. Such an assessment includes many different elements, and individual elements such as: Parental intelligence cannot stand alone. I would also like to stress once again that I certainly believe that one can be a good and caring parent even if one has a low iq. Of course, parents' iqs are only an element in the overall assessment if it affects their ability to care for the child. An example may be a situation in which parents already find it very difficult to understand and act on the basic needs of the young child for contact and care. It can, for example, be done. be because parents themselves are very traumatized due to abuse and failure in childhood, or because they have a severe personality disorder. If parents then at the same time have a very low iq, it can be virtually impossible for them to learn that caring ability even with massive and long-term support. In such cases, and fortunately they are few, it may be necessary to recognise that parents cannot take care of the child and that they never will, but it will always be after a concrete assessment. The alternative for these children is to be placed for the rest of their childhood with the shifts and the instability that unfortunately all too often comes with us. I and the government are very concerned that, as a society, we are getting better at helping vulnerable and placed children, and although I fully understand that it is unbearable to lose your child through adoption, when you do not agree, we must put the child first. We must not fail to do what is best for the child because it is a pity for the parents. It is the Ankestyrelsen that decides on adoption without consent, and it is also the Ankestyrelsen who is responsible for ensuring that the matter is fully disclosed and therefore also that there are no individual elements in this assessment alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505154042	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505154043	As I hear the Minister, the Minister says that equal iq plays a major role. Then I would just like to say something else to the Minister in relation to the debate we have today. The minister talks a lot about children's rights, but at the same time the Minister and the government want to deprive children of their right to know and know about their biological origins. The minister says they have a new family, but then it is no longer the biological parents who have something to say about it, because then the child is forced to be adopted. Then I can remember from the media that we have heard in the past about a disabled young woman whose child was forcibly adopted, even though there was a relationship and there was association. It is of course worrying if it is the case that you cannot somehow have a relationship with your child because you have a cognitive impairment. I believe that, as a society, we must help those people to maintain some kind of contact with the child they have now put into the world. Especially since the Minister said earlier that she had seen in that broadcast that there was a lot of love. It is therefore somewhat incomprehensible to me that we cannot somehow support such association. You can have a bigger family. You don't have to wipe out your biological source. Why is it that it is so important for the government to focus on the fact that we simply have to intervene with some of the most intrusive things? And why do we even want to relax the rules further in relation to compulsory abortion when there are already rules and opportunities for it? The legislation was relaxed in 2015, and the Danish People's Party opposed it, and now you want to relax it further, but why?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505154258	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505154259	I am not quite sure what the questioner is referring to, because there are no initiatives in the government which alter the possibility in the parental responsibility law to establish contact with the original family after adoption, if it is best for the child. We also had just the discussion on the issue that preceded this. So there is no suggestion from the government that we should change it. In the anonymous adoptions, the child also has the right to obtain information about his or her biological family if he or she so wishes, and there is an opportunity to apply for association with the adopted child.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505154338	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505154340	But at the same time, they say that you want to increase the use of this method. In any case, that is what I understand the government wants rather than looking at the smaller measures. It is important to have a child's development, and that the child gets off to a good start. We agree with that, but when the minister now mentions that the biological parents can apply for association with their forced adoption child, then the minister can at the same time tell me and us that none of them have received it; so there are none of them who have had association. In the documentary we also saw that it was too good, that is to say, there was no decision on whether or not to have association. So why is it that you want to increase the use of this method?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505154424	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505154425	As I said in the previous reply, this is not something that the government believes should be used in a wide sense. There is a great deal to be done in order for a compulsory adoption to be possible. All the different requirements that apply to compulsory placements must be present and, in addition, there are a number of additional factors that must be present, including the government's proposals. If the child is to be given away to a family with which the child does not have a special connection in advance, then parents must be so ill-functioning that they would be without caring for the rest of the child's upbringing. It is therefore not a question of the child being at home with the biological parents if he was not given up for adoption; that is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505154508	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505154510	I recognise that there may be situations where there are parents who cannot meet the needs of children, and that can be done, for example. be also due to mental disabilities. But why can we not at least have opportunities for association, that is to say, to follow the child from the sidelines, to join in children's birthdays and other things? I do not understand why the whole biological source will be wiped out in this way, because in the very cases we see, there is no one at all who will be able to associate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505154546	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505154548	However, we cannot stand in this Chamber and deal with cases and make the specific assessments that need to be made in each case. So, as the legislation is today, there is an opportunity to apply for association. There is an opportunity under the Parental Responsibility Act to establish contact with the child's original family after adoption, if it is best for the child. That is what is at the heart of this: that it should be best for the child. It's the child's best interests that come first here. And that is, of course, the assessment made in the specific cases where association may have been sought. I don't have the number today, but it's a very small number of cases, since this adoption thing has been used very little in recent years.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505154623	Thank you. This concludes Question 8, so thank you to the Minister and thank you to Mrs Adsbøl. We're just gonna have to get the booze off. The next question is to the Minister for Transport of Heidi Bank from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505154644	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505154648	Thank you for that: what is the Minister's view that the government's agricultural proposals have implications for Danish exports, including for container transport from Aarhus Harbour?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505154702	Here you go, Minister. Technique's a bit of a mess, so we're gonna have to get this done. Is the Minister in his own place? The Minister of Transport Yes, I'm in my own place, but it's the Minister of Social Affairs and the elderly who's logged in here. You want me to move up front? ) Yes. Now I think it's working. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505154736	Thank you, President. Now the technique is playing. That's nice. Thank you for the question. After all, the question of the agricultural issue of the government is a matter for the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, and we have also been in dialogue with Mrs Heidi Bank prior to this issue to point out that we had the opportunity to re-address it to the appropriate minister of the resort. Mrs Heidi Bank did not want that, which is why I naturally had to discuss it with the Minister for Food, because I do not want to comment on an area which does not concern my own. The Ministry of Food estimates that the agricultural issue does not directly affect Danish exports and Aarhus Harbour. The Government's agricultural initiative lies within the framework of the seven principles presented by the government prior to the negotiations. And since the seven principles are principles which fall under the responsibility of the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, I would recommend that questions be put to the minister concerned. And as Minister of Transport, I will not go any further into these principles. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505154851	Heidi Bank, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505154852	Thank you. I fully understand that there may be things in another area that you do not want to answer because it is not your responsibility. However, the reason why I want this dialogue with the Minister for Transport is, among other things, that the government is a one-party government and that the government has recently also made an infrastructure proposal. I would just like to know what the calculations are, i.e. what data you have for the infrastructure project, when you see it in the context of the fact that you are now making a major agricultural proposal. Are there any concrete calculations of the importance of jobs, of the importance of container transport and, in general, of transport movement patterns?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505154939	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505154940	Now, of course, the question does not concern infrastructure, but if that is what Mrs Heidi Bank wanted to ask questions about, then I would recommend that the question be put specifically in my area, because I will, of course, answer it. It is no different than that there is a strengthening of the connection to Aarhus Harbour in the government's project • Denmark's forward • Infrastructure plan 2035 • Infrastructure plan 2035 • Infrastructure plan 2035 • Infrastructure plan 2035 • Infrastructure plan 2035 • Infrastructure plan 2035 • Infrastructure plan 2035 • Infrastructure plan 2035 • Infrastructure plan 2035 • Infrastructure plan 2035 • Infrastructure plan 2035 • Infrastructure plan 2035 • Infrastructure plan 2035 • Infrastructure plan 2035 • Infrastructure plan 2035 • Infrastructure plan 2035 • Infrastructure plan 2035 • Infrastructure plan 2035 • Infrastructure plan 2035 • Infrastructure plan 2035 • Infrastructure plan 2035 •
ParlaMint-DK_20210505155012	Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505155013	What I am really fishing for, if you can put it that way, is this with the coherent policy and how, when you do something somewhere, it matters elsewhere. There is one concern, and I think it is actually a very legitimate concern on our part if the government does not choose to see their policy or your policy coherently, because it has consequences if you do something somewhere and you have not done calculations elsewhere. So what I am again asking is: have concrete calculations been made on the impact of the agricultural proposal on the infrastructure project?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505155048	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505155049	I replied to that at first, namely that the Ministry of Food considers that there are no direct consequences for Danish exports and Aarhus Harbour. This means that there remains a need to discuss with the parties wishing to participate in an infrastructure debate about what the government has proposed regarding the strengthening, in relation to whether Aarhus Harbour should be included in a future agreement. Mrs Heidi Bank must then discuss this with the negotiators of her party in the infrastructure negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505155121	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505155122	There is, in fact, a great deal of concern about this, because Aarhus Harbour serves 10,000 jobs directly and indirectly, and that is why we care about it, because we take it quite seriously that there is a safety around those jobs and that there is a certainty about that activity at Aarhus Harbour. So that's why I'm asking. That is also why I am asking very specifically whether concrete calculations have been made. I understand that there is not in the Ministry of Transport, but that, as I hear it, a commitment has been made by the Ministry of Food. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505155158	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505155159	As I hear it, what Mrs Heidi Bank is coming up with today is some random assumptions that she has made herself and that I shall then deal with, but which lie on the territory of another minister, and Mrs Heidi Bank has had the opportunity to redirect the issue to the right Resort Minister. Honestly, it seems a little bit sought. If it is the case that there are specific questions about infrastructure, then ask the question of infrastructure to you. If you have questions in the area of the Minister for Food, ask the Minister for Food. He is sitting right next door, and it would have been possible to answer the question here today if only the question had been redirected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505155238	Thank you to the Minister for Transport and thank you to Mrs Heidi Bank. We're just gonna have to get the booze off. That was the end of Question No 1 by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 9 on the agenda and then we have come to Question No 9 on the agenda. 10 on the agenda and it is to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries of Morten Messersschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505155301	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505155303	Thank you, President. Can the Minister guarantee that the Government's climate/agriculture plan goes hand in hand with the 2019 climate agreement, which states that the deliverance of Denmark's climate targets must be as cost-effective as possible, taking into account both the long-term green transition, sustainable business development and Danish competitiveness, sound public finances and employment. The Danish business community must be developed and not dismantled. Denmark must show that we can make a green transition while maintaining a strong welfare society in which the cohesion and social balance are ensured. The measures we need to take to reduce greenhouse gas emissions must result in real domestic reductions, but at the same time we must ensure that Danish measures do not simply move the entire greenhouse gas emissions outside Denmark's borders?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505155352	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505155354	First of all, many thanks to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt to ask this, I think, key, important, crucial question. There is no doubt that it is relevant to discuss here at the beginning of the agricultural negotiations that have just started, and fortunately with the active and dedicated participation of the Danish People's Party we are pleased about that. The short answer to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's question is: Yes, the government's agricultural initiative goes hand in hand with the 2019 climate agreement. Indeed, the climate agreement is reflected in the seven principles which, in the view of the government, constitute what we call the gangs or the framework of the negotiations, and the seven principles are precisely about the need for an agreement on the green conversion of agriculture to be wise and balanced. It must focus both on emissions of climate gases and on the aquatic environment, and at the same time we must not compromise on jobs, on the competitiveness of agriculture and on sound public finances. The Agriculture Climate Agreement must also be drawn up taking into account the public cohesion and social balance, and then we must ensure that Denmark continues to export green food and solutions so that we do not just move emissions to other countries. We have been in contact with various researchers and others who just point out that Denmark must continue to be a leader in relation to green animal production, because there are no countries that make it more climate-efficient than us. So if we turn it down, for example, we will move the problem to other countries, and that is not wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505155525	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505155526	Then I would like to thank you both for the brief affirmative answer and for the long and more detailed answer. That is quite basically pleasing. And I think that if we have that approach to the negotiations, it is not unrealistic that the government and the Danish People's Party can find each other. The reason for my question is that, as I have understood the government's proposal, it is intended to reduce by 7.1 million. t, of which 2 million. t comes by extracting what is called low-level soils, while 5 million. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. And it is quite reasonable, indeed, to have positive faith in the future and in the emergence of new technologies. If we didn't do it, it would be quite a black-eyed view of the future. But that is also where the concern starts to hit, for if 5 million. t of the 7 million t must be reduced by technologies that we do not know, and the clock is ticking further and further towards 2030 and we have a left-wing who are those who make the minister minister and who, if you are to put it a little nicely, may not be as concerned about competitiveness, business conditions, etc., but rather more concerned about just reducing CO2 that is why I am asking today: will the Minister and can he guarantee that we will not compromise on these principles? For they were at least absolutely central to us in the Danish People's Party when we concluded the climate agreement. Can the Minister guarantee that one does not suddenly say that a large part of pig production will then be driven to Poland, because then it looks nice on the Danish climate accounting • although it is bad for the climate, bad for Danish jobs etc. It is clear that when the vast majority of the reduction is something you cannot say how happens, there is also a concern that you are not suddenly faded by the government when you say that you have to deliver something to make Enhedslisten or Uffe Elbæk, or what they are all called, happy. And that is where we need a completely unmistakeable guarantee that we will not shrink from these principles.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505155735	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505155736	But these principles are absolutely indispensable. This is the starting point for the negotiations we are about to start, and that is also why we hope that a party like the Danish People's Party will take part in this. We in the Social Democratic Party have a solid faith in progress. We believe that we can change the world for the better by looking at the opportunities in the problems rather than the problems in the opportunities. And we can do that with technologies such as pyrolysis, we can do it with grass protein, and we can do it with ecological conversion. We think we can make a lot of it that way around. Then there are low-level soils and other things where you can do something. Some of this is also a little uncertain, but we need to strive hard if we want to reach high ground.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505155814	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505155815	And the way it is to be financed on the basis of new technologies, I understand that the agricultural subsidies from the European Union are then being used in a different way. And here's another red lamp that certainly lights up in my office. Because if you take some agricultural aid that is going to guarantee this very, very climate-friendly agricultural production that we have in Denmark, and then it is going to be used for something else, how will the government prevent those who are receiving the aid today from having less competitive power compared to, for example, the United Kingdom? Polish or Bulgarian farmers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505155843	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505155844	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt can be completely calm and doesn't have to light up with red lamps in the office. I mean, it's a common EU policy, where what's the framework in Denmark with these 20.5%. in the green framework, as it now looks, will be the same as with Poland, Bulgaria, Romania, Germany; all European countries. Yes, our German neighbors are probably more interested in green. There we are at the EU's minimum to ensure that there is also a realistic chance of farming in Denmark, also as conventional agriculture, and we are concerned about that. But we brought fresh money on this. We have among other things. 700 million kr. for research efforts on pyrolysis and grass protein and other. So there's fresh money in there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505155924	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505155926	So I understand that the government will not remove funds from the current agricultural producers unless it does so in the 26 other EU countries, and that is to say that the conditions of competition are intact. That's good. Will this also apply in relation to nitrogen reductions, i.e. that the demands that are then made on Danish Agriculture are some that will also be guaranteed across the EU, so that there will be no change in the competitive situation there either? After all, 190,000 people are employed in the food industry in Denmark. So it's their job, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160001	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160002	We only want to ensure fair competition or level playing field, as they say in modern Danish gradually. That is our starting point. After all, there are objectives common to all European countries. Then you can implement it in different ways. For example: in relation to nitrogen, there is the difference that we have more coastline and there is also shorter to our coast. That is why we run the risk of being hit harder by the rules that exist in the European Union than large countries such as the United States. Germany does. And, of course, we have to look into this: how can we both be ambitious in terms of having a proper aquatic environment, and how can we also ensure that we do not go too hard on it in relation to agriculture, which risks bankruptcies and other things, if we tighten the screw too much?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160043	Thank you. That was the end in relation to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Then we will have to get the alcohol off before we go to item 11 on the agenda, and that is a question for the Minister for Business of Mrs Heidi Bank from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160055	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160056	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that the government's agricultural proposals have implications for Danish exports, including for container transport from Aarhus Harbour?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160109	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160110	Thank you and thank you for the question to which the Ministry of Food has provided answers. The Ministry of Food estimates that the agricultural issue does not directly affect Danish exports and Aarhus Harbour. I would point out that the government's agricultural initiative is within the framework of the seven principles presented by the government in advance of the negotiations. Among other things: the principles must ensure that Denmark can continue to produce food and green solutions and not just move production and jobs to other countries; that agriculture must be sustainable not only in the climate and environmental sense but also in the economic sense; that the reduction of agricultural greenhouse gas emissions takes place taking into account sustainable development in the industry, the competitiveness of Danish agriculture, healthy public finances, employment, cohesion and social balance; that Danish agriculture must be guaranteed sustainable framework conditions; that we maintain jobs in all parts of the country; and • not least that Danish agriculture must continue to create jobs and contribute to the production of good, healthy, climate and environmentally friendly and safe food so that we in Denmark can maintain the essential position of agriculture in Danish exports. So agriculture in Denmark must be greener and stronger at the same time, and that is what we are debating these days with the Danish Parliament's parties, among others. Party of the author.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160235	Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160236	Thank you for that answer, and it is also, it has to be said, in the proposal that has come from the government. And the reason I call the Minister of Business is the concern for all the jobs we have in the food sector... it's Danish Crown, it's Arla, it's all the underlying. And that is where it raises a concern when I read the proposal that has come, where you want to move a great deal to ecology, and where you want to move a great deal to plant-based. That is why I am interested in hearing the Minister for Business and Industry with the role of the Minister for Business and Industry in relation to the Danish companies and in ensuring that the jobs have been made concrete calculations that ensure that, with what has been proposed in the proposal, the number of Danish jobs that we have, including those that are important, is maintained. And that's why I'm asking about Aarhus Harbour. For we have a huge container transport from Aarhus Harbour, from which it is primarily refrigerated goods • which is exactly the food that is being sent out. So that is the concern I raise here in relation to the profession in East Germany, no, Østjylland!
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160347	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160349	East Germany I cannot answer for, but East Jutland and other parts of Denmark I would like to add a few words. By the way, I have visited one of the large Mærsk ships while it was in Aarhus Harbour, and I know what volume there is in Aarhus Harbour. That is why I am just happy to note that the Ministry of Food, who is the one who has the pen in relation to writing the farm play, is of course of the opinion that the farm play does not directly affect Danish exports and Aarhus Harbour. And that is because we have an ambition here to make our agriculture greener, but also stronger, and thus to create both export and employment and growth in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160426	Here you go, Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160427	Yes, and it is probably a little the word immediately that gives me cause for concern. Because it sounds as if it is not so concrete what you have on it and in relation to the calculations that have been made. So can the Minister confirm whether calculations have been made showing the consequences for Danish jobs in the production of Danish food or whether they have not been made?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160448	Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160449	So here we have the opportunity to address the question to the Minister for Food, and I think that has been offered along the way as an opportunity. But in reality, what we are debating right now in the agricultural debate is where the author's own party also participates, and I think we subscribe to the same approach • that we want to develop Danish agriculture, not to dismantle Danish agriculture. And if you develop Danish agriculture, it is of course with a common desire to make it greener, while at the same time creating new jobs and also creating new exports and also creating new solutions for future green agricultural production. So we don't want to wind up, and that's why I don't share the concerns, even for Aarhus Harbour.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160532	Here you go, Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160533	I'm really happy to hear that approach. And that's what I've heard being presented in the playout. But I still have the concern, because I do not think I get a precise answer as to what is at the root of the proposal and what is done by concrete calculations on this and on the consequences it has. Because it is true, as a previous questioner from another party also said, that the 5 tonnes are based on some technology that we do not know. But there is, of course, a target for 2030 in this proposal, and that is why there must be some concrete calculations as to how you expect to achieve this. And there I think it must also be something that is of interest to the country's Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160613	Minister of Business, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160615	I believe that 5 tonnes will remain at the bottom of the line if we are only to deliver it but joke aside. The government's overall approach is a very positive approach, also to me, as Minister of Business. Because we focus on developing an agricultural industry to continue to deliver some of the world's most safe, healthy, environmentally friendly and climate-friendly foods, while at the same time making things greener. And I sense that there is a contradiction from the Left that if you make agriculture greener, you also lose export and loss of exit from Aarhus Harbour. And I do not share that scepticism, because I believe that we can develop and thus create more exports and create more jobs in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160657	Thank you to the Minister for Business and Thank you to Heidi Bank. Mrs. Heidi Bank, we're just gonna have to get the booze off. And that was the end of paragraph 11.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160728	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160734	Does the Minister believe that the decisions of the Foreign Affairs Council and the Refugee Board in cases of repatriation to Syria can be trusted when these decisions refer largely to a background report which 11 out of 12 sources in the report now escape?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160752	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160753	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by emphasising that, of course, I trust the professional judgements of the authorities, and that has not changed. This applies both to the work of the Foreigners' Agency and to the work of the Independent Refugee Board, so I cannot, must or will not interfere in their work. It is a principle, i.e. the arm's length principle, which many previous governments have complied with and which this government is also complying with. The reports which have been criticized by the media in recent times have been prepared by the National Council of Foreigners' Special Land Documentation Office, which generally has the task of providing relevant information for the purposes of the administration's proceedings. The staff of the department concerned are not responsible for the handling of specific cases of aliens. The first report from February 2019 has been prepared with Danish Refugee Aid. The reports show that they are based on different types of oral and written sources; sources that include international humanitarian organisations, Syrian researchers and research institutes, Syrian human rights organisations, reports from the EU Asylum Support Office and reports from various UN organisations. It is also clear from the reports of the Foreign Affairs Agency that they do not give or should pretend to give a complete picture of all conditions in Syria and that they must be read in conjunction with other information. In this context, it is important to point out that both the Foreign Affairs Agency and the Refugee Board state that, in their assessment of the specific asylum cases, they include a wide range of reports and background information, among others. also reports from the Swedish and British authorities as well as from the EU Asylum Support Office. I trust that the immigration authorities assess matters on a proper and informed basis, and I have faith in their assessment, which, moreover, is fully in line with Danish law; a law adopted by a broad majority in 2015 and which, of course, is in line with Denmark's international obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160955	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505160955-2	This is not a question of trusting the authorities; it is a question of having confidence in the actual report drawn up in relation to the weight given to it in the specific decisions. As an example, if you go in and look at the Refugee Board's six trial cases from June 2019, you can see that background material is being referred to in a broad sense, but as the only concrete source of background, reference is made to the Foreigners' Board's country report. So there are no other sources here than exactly the country report that I am discussing here. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister whether, in relation to the 2020 press release, where the Minister decides politically to bring forward these cases of residence permits for Syrian refugees, and where the country report is also mentioned as the only source of background, does the Minister regret that the country report is the only one to be specifically referred to when one is so busy playing down what it means and when there is so wide a range of material that appears to be included?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505161111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505161111-2	I do not regret anything in this respect, but I would like to insist that this is a matter of trust in the authorities. That is, of course, what the question is: does the Minister believe that the decisions of the Foreign Affairs Council and the Refugee Board can be trusted? And there's my answer: yes. That's it. I think you can trust them. Then it is true that there is a discussion about the specific report. I read that there are some of the oral sources that have been interviewed in connection with the preparation of the report, which disagree with the decisions taken. But we are not asking them to agree with the decisions either, we are asking them to provide the facts and information, and we are grateful that they have done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505161151	Thank you, Minister. Here you go, sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505161153	On page 3 of this country report, a disclaimer says that it is based on specially selected sources: carefully selected sources. Then there are 12 of them; 11 of them have opposed the content of the reports, and then there is one who still believes in it, and that is Assad's own general. Does the Minister not consider it problematic that, in his own press release, it should be highlighted as the only source of background if there seems to be a wide range of reports to be emphasised?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505161227	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505161228	Now it is not going to be a discussion about numbers, but I do not even understand the fact that it is 11 out of 12 sources. I have also read the newspaper articles, but that is simply not right. There are many more than 12 sources, both oral and written sources. Moreover, there are two different reports, some of which disagree with Danish foreign policy and the decisions taken, which appear in one report, and some appear in the other. I'm not saying this to mess this up. It's just because I think there's a lot of loose claims in this discussion that's not exactly right.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505161303	Thank you. Now we should have had a member of the Radical Left, but he is not present in the Chamber immediately, so now there is one question and one answer left. Here you go, sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505161310	Thank you. I understand that the Minister is busy repeatedly underplaying the importance of this report, despite the fact that it is the only background source that appears in the refugee board's test cases from 2019 and despite the fact that it is the only background source to which the Minister specifically refers in his own June 2020 press release. Can the Minister not see that, when so many people avoid it, a doubt can be raised about whether one can then have a credibility in relation to this report, when that is the only one mentioned when there is supposed to be a wide range of other reports?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505161351	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505161351-2	I am sorry if it sounds like I am undermining the importance of a particular report, because I have no intention of doing so. My point is that these reports do not conclude anything about the security situation. These are mere facts which, in line with many other reports, are part of the assessment of whether a specific case should lead to an extension of your residence permit or not being extended. As far as I am informed from the Foreign Affairs Agency, all sources have received their entire quote for inspection, and they have been able to correct it completely freely, and it is all printed as an annex to the report. So I don't think anything has actually been swept under the carpet, if you may say so in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505161435	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and thank you to Mr. Kristian Hegaard. There are no more questions and answers in this round. I'm just gonna have to get a drink. Then we move on to item 13 on the agenda. This is a question for the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing by Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505161500	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505161516	Thank you. Does the Minister think that there is a need to draw up clearer guidelines for the use of municipal funds for advertising, bearing in mind the latest case from Odense?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505161527	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505161528	I cannot comment on the specific case, as it is the responsibility of the Ankestyrelsen as the municipal supervisory authority in the first instance to decide what the case might give rise to in the specific context. What I can say in general terms is that a municipality can legally use municipal funds to inform the municipality's tasks, visions and the like by advertising. This is clear from the rules of local authority. The mayor represents the municipality externally in a number of contexts and can give an opinion on initiatives that have been politically adopted. The mayor here is entitled to the administration's service. There is, however, a fundamental rule that local government must be party-politically neutral. The administration shall not provide assistance to the mayor's party-political activities, including election campaigns. In 2017, the then Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior sent a comprehensive shepherd letter to all the municipalities of the country on the possibility of providing assistance to the members of the municipal council. It is a general message in this guide that the municipal administration should act party-politically neutral, so the basic rule should not, I think, be in any doubt. The Ministry has no reason to believe that there is generally a problem with the municipalities being in doubt about the rules governing advertising, but I would like to emphasise that the principle of party political neutrality is absolutely central to the municipal administration and it is particularly important to pay attention to a municipal election. In fact, I believe that the vast majority of politicians and officials are well aware of this. So the short answer to the question is: No, I do not think there is any need to draw up guidelines other than what is already available.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505161707	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505161708	Thank you for your answer. Well, that's interesting, isn't it? I am glad that the Minister thinks that the guidance is good enough, otherwise the Minister would of course have set out to provide a new guide and a better guide. What I just think will be the problem is when you make these ads in Odense, where you then write yourself that the ad did not meet demands for a municipally paid ad. The City of Odense has assessed this for itself. In a report produced by Odense Municipality's legal department, the municipality concludes, among other things. According to TV 2, with the form and content of the part of the advertisement in which the mayor takes part, the framework for how the municipal administration can communicate is assessed to be actually exceeded, as it is not sufficiently clear that the ambitions of the city council are being communicated and not the mayor's. This regardless of the legitimate intention behind the ad. In other words, when you look at it, you can see that what has happened is actually illegal, and the administration then assumes responsibility and says that it was they who proposed it. It has also been shown that the mayor has been somewhat involved. But I think there are two options in this. One is that if the guidelines are clear enough, as the Minister himself says, there should be no one in the administration or any member of the municipal council out there who was in doubt about what the rules say, and then there has been deliberate abuse of municipal means of advertising in an election campaign, which is of course very criminal. Because if the guidelines were otherwise unclear, one could excuse oneself that one did not know. So if we agree that this is actually an expression of the fact that, despite very clear guidelines, we have actually gone in and made ads, political ads for the mayor of Odense, we have actually been clear on the wrong side, and should that not have any consequences, should the mayor not at least pay back the amount that has now been spent on advertising to him?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505161906	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505161907	I am sorry that this is going to be such a boring answer, but I cannot interfere in the matter that is going on in Odense, because then I am ill-advised in relation to the treatment provided by supervision. However, on the basis of what the questioner has just said, I can see that the rules for Odense Municipality are also interpreted in such a way as not to make this type of party political advert, generally speaking, and in this way the Municipality of Odense has also perceived the message that was issued in 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505161943	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505161944	We have had the discussion before in a consultation where the Minister also finds it difficult to comment on things that lie and run in the system, and I can certainly respect that, but if we then say that it is the mayor of the X municipality who makes the administration make a corresponding advertisement this year, in an election year, would it not be fair to say that it has to have a consequence? What consequence would the Minister think it should have in the case of making it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505162013	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505162013-2	I haven't really thought about it, but it may be that I needed some more energy to think about it. In general terms, however, I would say that it is my experience that, as a mayor or as a municipal councillor, if you break the rules and that is brought to the attention of the House, it also means, perhaps not a squeezing, but at least a criticism of the fact that the rules have been violated, and this would be particularly problematic for the politician concerned during an election year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505162050	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505162051	What I hear the Minister say is that it can be problematic if you are caught in it and if it comes out in the paper that you have now done something you should not do, but should it not have a further consequence? It is, of course, a misuse of public funds, and it can be said that at least the money should be paid back by those who have abused it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505162111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505162112	Yes, as I said, I have not thought further about whether there is such a further way to go. I think there are a large number of border cases. One imagines that one is a municipal councillor in a municipality and wants a motorway, and the municipal council has decided that the municipality can engage in this, and then the mayor's portrait comes up with that commitment, so it will be within the rules, although in other contexts it may seem as if it is outside the rules. So I think there are a whole series of cases where grey areas are involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505162149	Thank you to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing, and thank you to Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. We're just gonna have to get the booze off. That brings us to the last section of the 20 question today, and that is no. 14 on the agenda, and it is to the Minister for the Environment and put forward by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505162204	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505162206	Thank you, President. What specific action has the Minister taken to follow up the monitoring report on the nature-care cattle of the Danish Nature Agency in Mols Bjerge, and will the Minister take the initiative to investigate and ensure that something similar does not happen elsewhere where the state holds cattle and/or other animals?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505162230	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505162231	Thank you for the question. In the specific case in Mol's Mountains, there has been a wrong professional assessment of when the animals should be taken home and fed. The Management Committee of the Nature Agency has acknowledged this and regretted it. I will not accept compromises on animal welfare, which is why I have also said very clearly that what has happened is totally unacceptable. I have asked the Danish Nature Agency for a comprehensive statement and also a plan of action, precisely in order to avoid anything similar happening again, and both were sent to the Committee on the Environment and Food on 14 April. The Action Plan describes how the Danish Nature Agency will ensure animal welfare in nature management, both in relation to the actual cattle herd in Mol's mountains and also in relation to nature management with animals on state land in general. The Danish Nature Agency will now implement a number of measures. I will not read them all out now here; I will just mention a few of them. Among other things, they will: review all of the Board's projects with full-year grazing to ensure animal welfare, including a contingency plan to take into account specific risk periods. It could be severe winters or droughts or anything else. A monitoring system will be developed to assess the health of animals, i.e. their huldscore, from which we are familiar elsewhere. Proactive management plans will be drawn up in relation to the animal feed base to take account of the fact that there will be enough food for all animals on the land. The Danish Nature Agency has many nature care projects around the country, and they have reported that there are no similar cases for animals in the custody of the Danish Agency. They have not previously been reported to the police for breaches of the Animal Protection Act in cases of animal husbandry by the government. On the other hand, over the years there have been few individual cases on land leased to private persons, and here the board follows up and, depending on the specific case, may of course also terminate the contract.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505162437	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505162438	Thank you, President, and thank you to the Minister for your reply. Well, the background is those I think it is ten police reviews that have been related to the nature park at Mols Bjerge, and then of course the press coverage, where, on the one hand, in Jutlands-Posten, on the other hand, pictures of things you didn't think would happen in Denmark: animals that are starved to death, and animals that have tried to find nourishment by eating plants that are poisonous to them, and by debarking, that is, several meters up, and where you can see that it must have been a completely unnatural, and indeed, really desperate situation the animals have been in. When I take this up after consultation and we have also received answers from the Minister in other contexts, it is because yesterday we dealt with a bill that there should be more national parks, more natural parks, in Denmark. On the basis of that, of course, it sounds good. Well, who doesn't love to get into nature, and who doesn't love to experience the free and wild nature? However, it does ask some questions in the light of what has happened in the mountains of Mol, where it has almost become a discipline not to keep an eye on the animals and not to ensure that if, for example, we do not have the animals in the mountains. The grass has not been as one had expected, there was another nourishment. I have the privilege in summer to live out in Dyrehaven, or right next to Dyrehaven, at the Deer Sea Tray. I often go to Dyrehaven, and in the winter there hay or other things are put to the animals, so they have something to live on. I am concerned when I see the legislative proposal that has been put forward and where it is proposed that the rules for monitoring the animals in the natural parks should be relaxed, because how can we prevent the situations, the horrible images and the pain that the animals must have suffered up in the mountains of Mol from being prevented from moving forward with any certainty if we are still dispensing from supervision?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505162636	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505162637	However, I fully agree with the specific case, in other words that it has been totally unacceptable, and neither in current legislation nor in future legislation in relation to natural parks will it be okay, quite the contrary. We do not want to compromise on animal welfare, and that is also why I welcome the fact that the questioner can see the potential of natural parks, because we need to take better care of nature in Denmark. We would like to make room for some of the species that are under threat and are in decline to have better living conditions. This is happening, among other things. by putting these big grassers out to help in nature care, and that's why we need to have the system around just following up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505162716	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505162717	Thank you. But what may be my concern is: now the Minister says large natural parks, and then you think something like Yellowstone or something like that, and there I just have to say that Denmark's area has unfortunately been considerably narrowed down over the past 400 years. That is why the question is whether the land we can set aside is large enough to simply relax supervision. Because in the really large nature parks, if there is an area where for various reasons there is sweating from the sun, or what do I know about the grass that was expected and on which the animals have to live during the winter, then they can move to another place. But that, among other things. has been the problem in Mol's Mountains, is that there has been no other place and that therefore they have been fenced in and simply died of starvation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505162759	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505162800	But that is also why it is very important to say that, in relation to what has happened in the mountains of Mol, I do not hear any political parties agree that it should be possible with the legislation that is now or in the future. And we will certainly not be supporting that as a government. However, it is clear that the animals we have under fences, including in future national parks, are responsible for this, and that is also why we are now going to ensure the system of proactive management plans that take account of the area there is and ensure that there are not too many animals on the land, that there is enough food and that there are contingency plans if there are particular periods of risk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505162834	Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505162835	Just for the record: I am not accusing the Minister of wanting or in any way having anything but disgust at what has happened in the mountains of Mol. I think we all share it. What may divide us is the belief that we can still avoid it when we relax our supervision. That is why we are proposing to say at least to the new national parks that we would like to see the duty of supervision being the same, regardless of whether it is animals that have to live in the wild or whether they are animals that live under normal conditions, so to speak. Does the Minister not think that would be the right approach in view of what we have seen in the mountains of Mol?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505162913	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505162914	I hope that we can stand together broadly in the Folketing on the new legal framework for natural parks. It is already the case today that we can monitor regularly, for example, hard cattle breeds. It is really the same parallel that will be for the hardy horse breeds. So sometimes there may also be something in that it is something new and that you do not quite know what is in it. However, we believe that with the conditions that the Minister of Food is going to impose, one can have that supervision at stock level and there can be no dispensation from the need to take good care of the animals. So it is very important to get into this context, and I am very happy to take the dialogue, also with the Danish People's Party, so that we can hopefully reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505162952	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment, and thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. There are no more §20 questions today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505163003	The debate is open. Now the minister needs a glass of water, but it is the Minister for Development Cooperation who is going on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505163031	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Enhedslisten for tabling this motion for a resolution. Let me make it quite clear from the outset: a global health crisis requires international action and close cooperation, because no one can be sure until everyone is safe. We've all heard that many times in connection with this pandemic, and that's right, as has been said. Therefore, the government set in early with considerable support for developing countries' handling of the epidemic and the major social and economic consequences derived from it. Through close dialogue, the government has received broad political support for four covid-19 aid packages under development aid. Total 1.8 billion kr. have been sent or are on their way to, not least, the hard-hit countries of Africa. We have also assisted with medical equipment and health professionals to combat covid-19 in e.g. Ukraine, Albania and Slovakia. And I am pleased that we can also help India in the critical situation that it is currently facing, both with the donation of life supporters and with a humanitarian contribution to the Indian Red Cross. Early in the pandemic, it was clear that there was a need for an international initiative aimed at the vaccination of the inhabitants of low- and middle-income countries. This led to the establishment of the COVAX facility. It is absolutely essential to protect the most vulnerable groups, including in developing countries, and to combat infection globally so that we avoid new waves of infection and new mutations. That's why the government has been committed to this very agenda from the start. In addition to substantial support through the EU and World Bank, Denmark has contributed to promoting access to vaccines through COVAX. As part of the latest and fourth aid packages, Denmark has secured an additional 50 million. kr. to COVAX; it is a doubling of the 50 million. kr., which will contribute earlier this year. So we've collected 100 million. kr. to COVAX. And we do more than that. We see, for example. on how Danish expertise, material and other support can benefit other countries. We saw this most recently with our donation of equipment to India. The government therefore fully agrees with the proposers in the need for a Danish commitment to the international covid-19 fight. That is why we also support the intention in the motion for a resolution to donate any excess covid-19 vaccine doses to the COVAX facility. The donation of vaccine doses to COVAX will in that case be complementary to the support that Denmark already provides financially to COVAX and the other Danish support for combating the pandemic in developing countries. However, the government has some reservations about the resolution. The donation of vaccines will have to be made in respect of the national deployment of vaccines. A number of factors will affect the timeline of when the national roll-out will allow vaccine donation. This applies, among other things, to: the time of revaccination, which is still unknown. At the same time, a majority in the Folketing has decided to establish a so-called opt-in scheme for the AstraZeneca and Johnson vaccines. A sufficient number of vaccines for this scheme will also have to be carried out on an ongoing basis. There may also be situations where trade between Denmark and another country gives access to other vaccine manufacturers. This could mean a faster vaccine roll-out in Denmark, and we should not cut ourselves off from that. Finally, in addition to COVAX, there will also be other relevant ways of disposing of surplus vaccines. This is true, for example. The EU vaccine-sharing mechanism, which is being prepared, and it may be relevant to look at bilateral donations. These reservations represent major nuances in the government's view of the resolution. Since they contain a number of elements that are not yet in place, it is still too early to take a final position on the donation to COVAX. As a clarification, I would like to point out that in the short run it is not possible to donate AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson vaccines currently stored in Denmark to COVAX. This is because COVAX only receives donations of vaccines that have not been in the care of a country but come directly from approved vaccine manufacturers. This principle ensures that COVAX can ensure proper storage and transport. In any case, donation to COVAX will not be relevant to the vaccines already in stock here in Denmark. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the fight against the pandemic in developing countries requires far more than access to vaccines. This is indeed a huge task, not only economically but also logistically, especially in countries with limited capacity. The government is also focusing on this. COVAX constitutes the vaccine track during the global collaboration called ACT-Accelerator, which aims to combat covid-19. The other tracks of cooperation are diagnostics, treatment and health sector capacity. Here, the main financing needs in low and middle income countries are now estimated to be within the supply chains for testing, treatment and protective equipment. At the same time, the rapid and effective use of new and existing technologies and diagnostics must be ensured. Therefore, the fourth covid-19 aid package, which was recently agreed between a number of parliamentary parties, focuses on supporting the needs with a new contribution to vaccine procurement and distribution, testing, treatment and preparation. With a focus on the maintenance of healthcare for girls and women and on investment in several health professionals, the help package also contributes to building resilience to cope with future health crises. In addition, the package contains contributions to humanitarian interventions in support of the most vulnerable groups, particularly in the neighbourhood of crises and conflicts and fragile states. With the package, we support both vaccines and the important wider need to combat the pandemic in developing countries, which must not be lost sight of. Let me give you a summary. The Government can support the intention of the motion for a resolution within the aforementioned reservations. The government will present its final position prior to committee reading. I look forward to discussing this matter and, as I said, this is something that has been very high on the agenda for many months now and is doing so in my everyday life as Minister for Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505163812	Thank you for your ministerial speech. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505163815	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for your speech. It is true that it has been high on the agenda for a long time, among other things. Because Enhedslisten has raised it repeatedly to the government for clarification on this issue. I have to say, I'm still a little amazed at the government's position. However, I am pleased to hear that the government has not yet taken a final position. However, I am a little surprised that it is not possible to say that we support a decision in principle to donate surplus vaccines to the COVAX facility, because the reservations mentioned by the Minister can easily be taken into account in relation to that. After all, nobody wants us to donate vaccines that we need or to be used for other purposes. The Minister himself mentioned the problems of donating vaccines already in the country. However, with the options we have put on the future purchase of vaccines, there is no problem, in that one could choose to say that if we do not need them ourselves, let us donate them rather than risk them being unused. Does the government have such a basic reluctance to donate to COVAX in relation to excess vaccines because there might be other options, or does the government agree that the best place to donate the vaccines to will be the COVAX alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505163928	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505163929	I actually think, sir. Peder Hvelplund, that I make it quite clear that COVAX is a fantastic initiative. It is in itself, and it is, because it is with, for example, one of them. UNICEF is a fantastic network of competences and understanding and also experience in the countries we are talking about here, i.e. the low and middle-income countries. COVAX is a really good facility, which we award to such an extent. The reservations I am putting in here are the unknown ones that have come. It turns out almost week by week or day by day that new unknowns are coming. Most recently it was the Johnson & Johnson vaccine that was decided a few days ago not to be included in the Danish vaccine strategy. That is what is expressed in the reservations here. It is that we will take a final decision on the committee's reading. We think COVAX is a fantastic facility. Some reservations have been made where we can see that here we need to know what reservations should be made, and there will also be the possibility of making trade, which I mentioned, and the other reservations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164036	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164037	Thank you. Well, it was because the Minister mentioned in his speech that it was not necessarily COVAX, but that there could also be other initiatives within the EU, and that is what I am somewhat surprised about. Because when we are in the situation we are in, where there is an urgent need for vaccines in low- and middle-income countries, that is to say we are missing 20 million vaccines only here to be able to re-vaccine in the second quarter, then I am a little surprised that we will not be able to say that we are in the situation that we have surplus vaccines, it will of course be COVAX that we are donating for precisely the reasons mentioned by the Minister himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164111	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164112	The reason I mention what is called the EU vaccine-sharing mechanism is, of course, that we know that the European Union is a very good and large muscle, in the same way as COVAX is. But it is also clear that there are of course also some interests, for example. in relation to neighbouring countries, e.g. as when we made a trade with the vaccines that had already come to Denmark, with Nordslesvig; these are the thoughts we put into this. That is why the list of reservations about supporting the resolution here today is not really very long, but there are some unknown ones, and these are the ones we are looking forward to working, I hope, more comprehensively towards committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164148	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164151	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. I am a little curious because we had a consultation some time ago, when we were talking about donations here, and I do not remember whether it was the Minister for Development or whether it was the Minister for Health who said that there were also working groups in the Council, in other words in the European Union, about donations of vaccines to get on with this project. I would like to hear how advanced the project in the European Union is to look together at how we are donating many more vaccines to the corona crisis, which comes a little later in many of these low-income countries, which we are talking about, where it is only now seriously starting to roll with more and more sick people and where there is no access to the vaccines. So it is a good thing that Denmark is getting on the ground, but what is the overall EU step in relation to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164242	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164243	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. That is absolutely correct. Many of the low and middle-income countries have not seen the large waves of infection. On the other hand, unfortunately, we have really seen economic and socio-economic consequences. That is also the reason why we are now seeing an explosion of extreme poverty again and we are seeing very many particularly vulnerable groups of years • girls and women, as I mentioned in my speech • who are going to suffer from the fact that the capacity that is in the primary health service in these countries is really under pressure at the moment. I'd like to say to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, that it is not me who has had this consultation about it I think it is over under the auspices of the Minister for Health, but there are really more ministers working into this. But I can tell Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, that under the auspices of the European Union there is a Nordic regime, which is also my extreme attention to the fact that we must ensure that the poorest part of the world is supported. That's why I'm really glad we got COVAX up. It is the largest vaccine programme ever put in place so quickly in world history.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164351	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164353	No, the development minister was there. It is a good thing that we are aware of this, but what we have been pushing for for many months now is also that action is being taken seriously, in other words even more than there is. COVAX has started up and that is fine, but when we look at how many people have been vaccinated worldwide, what has happened in the poorest countries is not impressive. So can the Minister say anything about whether there is a joint effort in the European Union to donate more vaccines to these projects?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164425	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164426	Yes, I can confirm that. That is also why we are pushing very strongly from the Danish side for the EU's vaccine-sharing mechanism to come up and stand up. So it can be said that the fact that we have it and we also have the bilateral donations and I also mentioned the opt-in system that we have decided politically here in Denmark that there should be a number of reservations in relation to the resolution now, because there are still some unknown ones. We very much hope that there will also be a quick and detailed picture here, as I have announced, that we will be able to clarify the matter in the run-up to committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164505	Thank you. The next one to which I would like to give the floor is Mr Spencer. Stinus Lindgreen from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164509	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the speech. I have to be sure that I understand that correctly, because I hear a number of reservations. You can switch through the EU, which is this free choice system, which is donations to other countries, etc., so is this really more a question of how to define excess vaccines? If you say that once we've done all the other things, and then there's something left, it's the ones we donate to COVAX. Is that what is reserved, or did I not quite understand what it is? So it is not the case that we say that all vaccines, beyond what we give to the Danish population, must be given, but that we also have to be able to do some more things, and if there is something left over, we can give it to COVAX.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164545	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164546	I would say that what I said, which was the reservations here, is that there are also elements other than COVAX in the picture, and that is what clarification is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164602	Here you go, sir. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164604	Thank you. I'm really in it. There are several places we can use vaccines, but if we look at the global one, as the Minister himself mentions it is a global pandemic, it requires international action. It is also clear that vaccines must be given, so if we have someone left behind, after all these other options have been exhausted, is it the logical place to go, or does the Minister see other ways, it would be better to distribute vaccines from Denmark to other countries in the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164628	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164629	No. COVAX is a fantastic institution and a facility that we on the part of the government pay tribute to in every way, and it has been great to see that there has been so much support for it. It was nice to see that the United States got on the field too, so it's got a muscle. But there is also a need for an extremely large muscle, also for other than vaccines, namely the capacity challenge in the same way as we have experienced here and now it is being experienced in India and elsewhere. Vaccinate part, capacity is something else. As some have said, it is not a question of the vaccine, it is a question of when the vaccine is given.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164704	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Martin Geertsen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164708	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for the speech. I would just like to ask a completely open question, and the Minister will have to answer what the Minister thinks he will answer, but perhaps it is a little in the wake of some of that, Mr President. Stinus Lindgreen and others have mentioned it. So, the reason why we have these reservations is that there are also a few rather more general ones, what should we say, geopolitical considerations in relation to the government's assessment before taking a position on such a motion for a resolution as this? In other words, there may be all sorts of interests associated with distributing vaccines or donating vaccines into the world. Is that the kind of thing the Minister could imagine? Full respect for what the Minister is replying and also, if he does not answer, is that what the Minister has in mind could be a reservation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164800	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164801	Thank you very much for the question. Geopolitics really does play a part here, so we have seen it so far. That is why the government is also pushing for the EU to get its function up and running. It is clearly the Government's wish that the European Union should also play a major role. We are the largest donor, for example. Africa, but it is clear that there are players in the field of vaccines, especially the Russians and the Chinese, who use it a lot in geopolitical contexts. We believe that COVAX is a fantastic initiative, and that is why both the EU and Denmark and the rest of the Western world also support the COVAX initiative. But it's clear that geopolitically speaking, it's an implication of this. This is not something we should play out with as a single country, but we are a member of the European Union, and the European Union must, of course, play a role here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164856	Martin Geertsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164856-2	Now I am going to go two inches harder to it and ask: will any of what the Minister will like to explain in the hope that we can agree on some kind of report, be such a thing with geopolitics, and how Danish vaccines or Danish options are to be used on the international stage? Is this the kind of thing we are talking about, the Minister will use his energy towards a possible report?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164927	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164928	Thank you for the question. I would say that it is not my duty to have these discussions under the auspices of the European Union, so I cannot actually answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164936	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Per Larsen of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505164940	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for his speech, in which I heard some good tactics far along the way. There is a great deal of uncertainty at the moment, because we are in a place where there is certainly a shortage of vaccines, and we have then paused a few of them in Denmark. Is the Minister aware that supplies have also been stopped so that the vaccines we have had in order can be used elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505165009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505165010	It's not within my range either. I know what it's like when you make reservations, and that's what I explained in my speech. In order for the vaccinations and the doses to be used, they do not need to enter Denmark. They are much better off with the manufacturer, so they can get into play where you have not taken political or professional reservations to use, for example, AstraZeneca or Johnson & Johnson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505165035	Is there a brief comment from Mr. Per Larsen? There isn't. Then I would like to thank the Minister for Development. There are no more brief comments. Then we must welcome the rapporteur of the Social Democrat Party, because we are now beginning the series of rapporteurs. Here you go to Mrs. Julie Skovsby from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505165110	Thank you. The motion for a resolution proposes that the government be required to take a decision in principle to donate any excess covid-19 vaccinations to the COVAX initiative, which is working to distribute the vaccines globally to particularly low-income countries in the world. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that Denmark must of course help where we can, in the global battle against corona, because a global health crisis requires joint action, first and foremost from a human point of view, and let me say that these are quite awful stories we hear from, among other things. India in these weeks. But we must also help because, despite border closures, we are living in a globalised age. It is in everyone's interest that we minimise the risk of new viral mutations and infectious waves, and as long as there are people in the world who have not been vaccinated, the risk of new mutations that can hit us again exists. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party are immediately in favour of the intention behind the motion for a resolution, but we have a number of reservations. Firstly, it is absolutely crucial that the Danish need for vaccines is met, as is also stated in the motion for a resolution. Here are a number of unknown factors such as the need for revaccination. Nor do we want to run the risk of excluding from the outset the possibility of exchanging ourselves with other vaccines from manufacturers from other countries. Secondly, the motion for a resolution calls for the vaccines to be donated to COVAX. COVAX is a crucial international initiative which Denmark has supported several times, most recently by 50 million. kr. However, we expect that in the future there will also be other relevant means of disposing of surplus vaccines, such as: through the vaccine-sharing mechanism currently being worked on in the EU. Therefore, the recipient of a possible Danish vaccine donation should not be limited to COVAX alone. It should also be noted that it is not possible to donate the vaccines from AstraZeneca and Johnson, which the Danish Health Authority has taken out of the Danish vaccine programme, mainly because COVAX only receives vaccines that come directly from approved vaccine manufacturers and thus not from other countries' stocks. In the Social Democratic Party we basically believe that Denmark must, of course, contribute solidarity in the global fight against corona, but because of the reservations mentioned above we cannot at this stage take a position on the proposal. We look forward to the discussion in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505165453	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505165458	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Skovsby for her speech. I simply do not understand the social democratic position in relation to this. Because it is clear that there are a number of reservations about when we can start donating vaccines. I think that everyone agrees on that, but when we get there, that we can say that we are going to have some surplus vaccines, why is there the reluctance to say that we are of course donating them to COVAX? For COVAX, the mechanism that can ensure that low- and middle-income countries can access vaccines is precisely that and we know that there is a screaming need. Why, then, should we wait to see some incessant work on a vaccine distribution mechanism in the European Union? I mean, I think it's pretty straightforward, and that's what you do in, for example. Norway and Sweden. Sweden donates 1 million doses to COVAX, and Norway has donated about 700,000 doses. So once these reservations have been made, why is there the reluctance to donate to COVAX? I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505165558	Julie Skovsby, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505165559	Thank you. It is important for me to stress that this is not an objection, and I hope that the rapporteur does not hear that. However, it is a number of unknown factors which are at this moment in time for me not to be able to say today what our position is, other than that we support the intentions behind the resolution and that we look forward to the work of the committee and the discussion that is coming here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505165636	Peder Hvelplund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505165637	Thank you, but I'm just getting a little impatient too. For now we have been discussing this for a very long time, and I believe that it should not be so difficult to say when we have come over there, where we say that we have now got rid of the unknowns, and that we now have some doses that we are not currently going to have to spend the next few months in Denmark, that we have to donate them to somewhere. Then we can choose to say that we will donate them to some EU vaccine distribution mechanism or that we will donate them to COVAX or that we will try to sell them. And we are simply asking to make a decision in principle that we should also assume our global responsibilities and donate them to COVAX. Why is there the reluctance to take that decision of principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505165718	Here you go, Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505165719	I believe that the situation is that there are still some unknown ones and that, as the Minister for Development also said, we cannot take a position here and now, but that we are doing so ahead of committee work. And during the committee work we are also looking forward to discovering how we are going to proceed with those reservations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505165746	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505165750	Thank you. But I also have to ask a few questions about this reservation, which is so clearly heard by the Social Democrats. We have had consultations on what has been a question debate on this, it has been discussed over and over again, and now you are standing there with some artificial reservations which are not, of course, about anything that is in this resolution. This is about surplus vaccines, it's not about forcing COVAX to take vaccines that they won't accept. It is not about giving them vaccines that we should have used in Denmark, but it is about excess vaccines, and there should be a principle about whether they should go to the world's poorest or whether we want to trade all sorts of other places. I think it is a little bit of a decision of principle that we are discussing today and that it is a pity to hear so many reservations about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505165839	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505165840	As I mentioned in the rapporteur's speech: the unknown factors present, I think, are quite real. In other words, it is about the need for revaccination, as was the possibility that we could exchange for vaccines from other vaccine manufacturers from other countries. So it is not some unknown factors that are not present. I think they are so present.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505165921	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505165922	Well, the resolution is about surplus vaccines, and if we need some vaccines to trade with others, if we need some vaccines, because we are making a plan to re-vaccine, and that is why we need an extra stock, they are not excess. So what's the reservation? That is what I do not understand if we look specifically at the wording of the proposal we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505165945	Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505165946	On the subject of revaccination, I do not think it is quite clear what needs we have. But let me say that in the work of the committee we are being asked about this and have the decision that Enhedslisten has now taken the initiative for us to have taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505170013	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Stinus Lindgreen from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505170016	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I just need to make sure I get it. I fully agree that we must of course be able to vaccinate the Danish population, and we must also be able to re-vaccine the Danish population if necessary this autumn or the year that comes. We also need to be able to trade and we need to be able to donate vaccines. We have, for example. donated vaccines for Schleswig-Holstein. But right now we have doses in the country of approximately 300,000 Danes, if they want to accept the AstraZeneca or Johnson vaccine and Johnson vaccine, but we have options of 7-8 million on Johnson and Johnson alone, so even if we assume that the entire Danish population is being vaccinated with it, we still have millions of doses in excess, which lie as options out in Europe. As I read the motion for a resolution, these are the issues at stake. When we have taken out all the other factors and if we have millions of doses left over in our case, what are we going to do with them? I do not suppose that we should be re-vaccined every week throughout the autumn, so there must be a lot of doses left over that we can use for something, and Johnson and Johnson are precisely a vaccine that is perfectly obvious in the countries we are talking about here, namely India and countries in Africa. They're easy to transport, and that's one shot. Isn't this a perfect place to look?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505170123	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505170125	I think that the question is an indication that there is also a need for us to get a little more into this in committee. Because, as I understand it, the vaccines mentioned by the questioner, which we have quite rightly in stock right now, cannot be included in the COVAX initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505170149	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Is there another one? Then you have to remember to sign in. Here you go, sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505170156	I'm sorry, I forgot. I'm sorry. It's not just the equivalent of 300,000 doses. As far as I remember, we have 460,000 doses of AstraZeneca and 70,000 to 80,000 doses of Johnson and Johnson in the country. It is true that they cannot enter the COVAX initiative, but then we still have 7-8 million doses in options on Johnson and Johnson, which are not yet in the country. Even if we receive enough to vaccinate the entire Danish population, we still have 3 million doses lying in options out there, and I assume that these are the ones it is about. So it is not the people we have in the country; it is the others.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505170225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505170226	Yes, that is correct, and that is also how I have read the motion for a resolution. Let me stress again that we support the intentions behind this and that we are ready to take a position. It will not be right here and now that I can announce our position on behalf of the Social Democratic Party. So let's check it out, including with regard to the vaccines coming from AstraZeneca and Johnson and Johnson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505170258	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We have just to get the alcohol off, and then we must welcome the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Martin Geertsen. Here you go to the rapporteur of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505170320	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the motion for a resolution. I am almost tired of hearing that agreement is expressed in the intention of the Enhedslisten proposal, but I myself will do so here. I think that this is an extremely sympathetic proposal, but it is also a proposal, and this also applies to the subsequent debate which comes from a sad background. More than 154 million infected and 3.2 million corona-related deaths worldwide are, after all, the sad reality in which we are living, and yet the inhabitants of the risk groups and health professionals in most third world countries can continue to look in vain for vaccine deliveries. With this resolution, the government will be required to donate any surplus vaccines to the COVAX initiative. In general terms, I think it is right to point out the COVAX initiative, and I have also noted that COVAX is one of the organisations which Denmark has already supported financially, and that, if I may say so, financial support must be exchanged for vaccines in order to give real value. I am also aware that the Danish Government has concluded agreements on the purchase of considerably more vaccine doses than there are residents in Denmark, and that is, of course, wise enough. These are agreements which, as you know, have been concluded with various producers, taking into account both the failure of delivery and the possible need for revaccination. In principle, it can be said that, for a large part, these vaccines are still to be compared with birds on the roof. We do not have the physical vaccines yet, but it certainly shows due care that, despite this, we are considering the use of the vaccine doses which may be excess. Then we are in the lucky situation in this country that we believe that we can actually afford to put someone on the shelf like that in a figuratively sense • some we actually choose not to use. And, of course, that must also be taken into account. As the authors of the motion for a resolution state, a donation can be made by handing over the right of purchase of pre-ordered vaccines to other countries so that the vaccines can be delivered directly from the production facilities. I do not think we should reject that donation model, and now Mr. Peder Hvelplund let questions of what it is then for some reservations that the Left has, hail down on me. But when the government cannot, like it can, give an answer to what reservations it has, then I stand in line behind the government and say: we have to have the government's assessment of what kind of model you ship into here and compare it with other sales and swap models. When the Minister mentions a number of reservations, which may not yet be quite clear, in relation to what they are about, I do not think there is any option other than waiting for the government to give the assessments it has said we need to have. In any case, I think that what Enhedslisten is proposing is common sense, just as we must use common sense when discussing the use of the vaccines taken out of the Danish vaccination programme, and especially those already on our shelves. Here, too, we are awaiting the development of the electoral model that the government has promised to present here during May. That's another talk. Thank you to the Enhedslisten for taking the initiative on this motion for a resolution. I expect that, in the good debate in the Committee on Health and Consumer Protection, we will also sort out a few reservations. At least I'm interested in hearing a little more about that myself. I do not know what Enhedslisten had imagined, but this would obviously be something that, if one can agree on it, could be embraced in some kind of report and call on the government to do one thing or the other, a little depending on what reservations the government makes. I look forward to it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505170749	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur was quite right in saying that the Enhedslisten would ask questions. Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505170757	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Martin Geertsen for the speech. It is, I would like to point out, a strange parliamentary situation that we are in here. A supporting party raises a proposal that the government is reluctant to accept, and then the opposition stands behind the government and supports those reservations. But I can see that is the position of the Left in this matter here. I welcome the principle of support for this and I agree that we must try to see if we can reach a joint report on this, but I would just like to hear Mr. President. Martin Geertsen's assessment of whether the Left agrees with the principle in relation to the fact that excess vaccines are donated through the COVAX initiative. It is, after all, like where we have the opportunity to remedy some of the global inequality in the distribution of vaccines. Right now, I have no other initiatives that I will be able to point out immediately, so I would just like to hear the basic consideration as to whether this is the direction in which we should donate our surplus vaccines.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505170857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505170858	Well, let's start with the first one first. I fully agree that this is a rather strange parliamentary situation, but the government says that it has some reservations, but I do not really know the content of them, and so I would really wait to be very, very sharp until I came down to the matter of what those reservations really are, because I do not know them. And then Mr. Peder Hvelplund in fact two things. He asks whether the Left will help to ensure that all surplus vaccines are used in the COVAX initiative, and Mr. Peder Hvelplund concludes in his speech whether it should go in that direction. In other words, I would like to wait to give a perfectly clear indication of whether I think that all excess Danish vaccines should go through the COVAX initiative, until I know the government's reservations. I could guess what it could be, and I kind of asked a question about it before. There may, of course, be geopolitical considerations that go into this issue, and I must just say that I would like to hear more about this, if that is what is kind of the reason for the government's hesitation in just blowing its way into the COVAX initiative with all Danish surplus vaccines.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505171011	Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505171011-2	That is, of course, fair enough. I just find it a little difficult to see any more serious geopolitical considerations than the fact that we are in a situation where 1 in 500 in low-income countries has been vaccinated. We are faced with an epidemic, or a pandemic, where we know that this is necessary, both for the sake of global justice and also for the sake of protecting ourselves from new mutations, and that is where I find it difficult to see more serious arguments than that, including geopolitical ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505171050	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505171051	I certainly think that we should use excess Danish vaccines on the international stage, also in low- and middle-income countries. I think that's a really, really good idea. What I want to hear a little bit more from the government is who the government thinks should distribute them. I would like to hear more about this, because it may be interesting in a geopolitical context, who distributes the vaccines. That's just the reservation I have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505171124	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We shall then welcome the rapporteur of the DF and that is Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505171140	Thank you to Enhedslisten for making the proposal. I think that this is something that we have discussed a few times in the past and something that we all express ourselves in favour of somewhere, because we all know that if we are to save each other from the corona virus and new mutations, we must also have the people of the world vaccinated. But the question is how to do it, because it is quite clear that these vaccines, with which we can vaccinate 23 million people, cannot be used by all of us unless we are going to re-vaccine, and the question is: how long can they last? So I was very pleasantly surprised when I read the content of the proposal. Because normally I would just think that Enhedslisten would say that the poor in Africa must have them before the rich in Gentofte. But it's not like that. It says that the Danish population must be vaccinated first, and in fact there are many of the things I said, that is to say this: is there anyone who needs to be re-vaccined? All those things have been taken into account, so I congratulate the rapporteur on that. So I think it is quite correct that we have to make an agreement, of course, in relation to what we know, but I think that it is probably neither one minister nor the other minister who knows very much about this. Because we need to know: how many vaccines should we use of them that we are not now using in our vaccination calendar? How many will take it voluntarily? So how many don't we need? How many have we got here? And how many can we stop for? Well, that's some of the things that matter. At the same time, we also need to plan whether there is anyone in the EU countries, in other words whether this should be done through the EU pool, and whether we can say no to buying and paying them. I think there are many unanswered questions to which I hope we can get answers. I do not think there are any ministers who, without asking the authorities about it, can respond to it. I do not even know whether they are aware of what we can and what we cannot do, even when we have not received the last vaccines yet. After all, we are waiting excitedly, and every time we have been happy that vaccines are now coming into the country and booming, some factory is going up in smoke or another factory is putting it off. So we're also starting to learn at home that it's better with one bird in hand than ten on the roof. Because it is important that we get the Danes vaccinated and also find out if anyone should be re-vaccined and so on.? But I am very much in favour of the proposal, and I also came down here to say: well, it is leaning more towards a yes than to a no, but we need to ask some questions. It's supposed to be the words from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505171448	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505171450	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt for your speech, and thank you for your agreement to the proposal. I would also just like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that both Norway and Sweden have actually decided to donate vaccines. So I think that, in cooperation with the authorities, we will of course be able to ensure that Denmark will also be able to contribute, as will our Nordic brother countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505171516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505171517	I think that would be really nice. It would be nice if we could see in the committee's work how it has been done in Sweden and Norway. How do they ensure their own citizens first? And are these any of the vaccines they have ordered that they then pass on? I cannot see that here, and I do not know enough about how they do that, but I think we could look at that in committee and see if we could not vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505171543	There were no more questions. Liselott Blixt There was only one question from the Enhedslisten rapporteur). Well, he didn't want to use his second question, and then he shouldn't be forced. We are grateful to Mrs Liselott Blixt and welcome to Mr Blixt. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505171607	I know we can all think it's really hard and get a little tired of all the talk about corona, but I actually think it's worth just stopping up and looking at how amazing it is that we already have vaccines that are effective. It's actually amazing. I also think it is nice, although we may be annoyed that the vaccination calendar in Denmark is moving a few weeks, how quickly we actually roll it out. I think it's nice. I think we're handling it well. Where I do not think we handle it so well is in terms of understanding that a pandemic is a global issue and that we have a global responsibility. We've done a lot, but we could do more. Together with the proposers, I have both written speeches and called for consultation on the straightforward solution, which was actually to say: how can we produce far more vaccines? How can we get more vaccines out into the world so they can be used? Yeah, you could, among other things. by supporting India and South Africa, which already asked to make the so-called waiter in the WTO in the autumn and to be allowed to produce vaccines that can come out so that we can have more people vaccinated. We haven't moved on that. Today we are discussing this resolution from the Enhedslisten, and I can only say that, of course, we support it. For it is very clear in its language, this motion for a resolution: we are donating the vaccines that are left over. In other words, these are not the vaccines we need; they are the ones we do not need. That is why I do not actually understand the reservations I hear from the government and from the Social Democrats in this matter, because it is absolutely crucial that the whole world is vaccinated. When we look at the numbers that are from COVAX right now, it's going really, really bad. Just as amazing we can say it's actually going at home, as bad as it goes with COVAX. That's very, very few of the 2 billion doses that are going out to be used that have come in so far, and that's why we need to speed up in relation to these donations. We can see that the Swedes have chosen to donate very many doses, and we must also be able to plan this on the Danish side. We have such a skillful piece of work, and we have been good at pre-ordering what I think is really nice we have done. Then we must also be able to plan how to move forward. The problem is that if we want to save them here for re-vaccination every six months... the 23 million doses in Denmark... maybe we have doses for the next few years at home. But we have to keep in mind, and it may sound like a pussy gradually, that no one is safe until everyone is safe. So that's true. So it is no use going and saving for revaccination for several years if we do not get vaccinated all over the world. That is why, of course, I can again warmly support this motion for a resolution, and I think that all the reservations that some people have made have been included in the text. It is very clear and clear, and it is also about sending a signal and saying: we are, of course, involved in the solidarity approach that exists to matters; we are donating what is left over. So thank you for the suggestion. SF supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505171935	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505171938	Thank you. I'd just like to sign for sir. Rasmus Nordqvist's speech. Of course, I fully agree with the remarks made by the rapporteur. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is aware that precisely the demand to support a Waiver, in other words the right to be able to produce for India and South Africa, are also demands which Bernie Sanders is currently making in the United States to the newly elected President Biden, so Rasmus Nordqvist is completely entering into an alliance with Bernie Sanders in this context. I would just like to ask the rapporteur if he is aware of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505172017	I don't think this is the first time I've done it. I see progressive forces around the world kind of backing this up. And the party of which the SF is part at European level, that is to say the Green Group, is also supporting and working hard for this. And I still hope that the government will see the wisdom of getting up in the production of vaccines. And that is what we want with this waiter in the WTO, and I very much hope that the Danish Government will support and push for the EU to support India and South Africa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505172045	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. There are no more brief comments. I would like to welcome Mr. Stinus Lindgreen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505172058	Thank you. As you know, we are in the middle of a pandemic, and although we in Denmark are in a really good place, there are many countries, both close and far away, that have been hit significantly harder than us, and where there are struggles daily with violent infection rates, admissions and deaths as a result of corona. In Denmark, we have wisely bought options for significantly more vaccine doses than there are citizens in the country. It has to be acknowledged that this was wise, especially with the recent changes in the vaccination programme, but also with the prospect of a possible revaccination at a later stage. I guess we've all learned it with one shot in the arm rather than ten on the calendar. But that does not change the fact that, if everything goes well, we should expect to have access to a large number of doses in the future that we are not going to use. The Johnson & Johnson vaccines alone represent a 7-8 million dose. And in my opinion, the most important thing is that all these vaccines should be used. As I said, we are in the midst of a violent pandemic and it will not be possible to bear if they go to waste. Several possible uses have already been mentioned here. It is a revaccination; there is the much-mentioned option system if it is implemented, but it will most likely not make a large reduction in doses. Today we have enough for the program alone for about 300,000 Danish citizens; we have agreed a loan to Schleswig-Holstein; there is talk of trade with other countries where we give some AstraZeneca vccins or Johnson & Johnson vaccines and maybe get some Pfizer vaccines back. All these are good opportunities, and I don't want to write off any of them. But we have a global responsibility. A pandemic is by its very nature a cross-border one, and that is why we must also ensure vaccination in those countries that are not as privileged as we are. Because we are only safe when all the countries of the world are protected, and such an international task should, of course, be handled and coordinated centrally, with a view to where the need is greatest around the world. And here is COVAX just the obvious solution. As I hear the rapporteurs on the issue and as I read the resolution and as I hear the various rapporteurs on the platform here, there is agreement on the purpose. But the discussion is almost on the definition of what excess is. And that's why I'm going to say that I'm counting on the excess being, of course, when we've taken all these things into account. We must, of course, vaccinate our citizens in this country. It is clear; it is our responsibility. Of course, we need enough for revaccination; of course, we need to have the opportunity to search other possible uses or whatever it may be. But if there's something left over after that and when you look at the number of doses we've bought options for, it's unrealistic that there are no vaccines left over, because we've all seen what it is, 20 million doses that we've bought options for, then I don't see any other logical choices than that they obviously have to be donated to COVAX to benefit the poorest in the world. So in the Radical Left, with the definition of what excess is, we fully support the resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505172401	You're welcome. There are no brief comments, so I would like to welcome Mr. Per Larsen of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505172422	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Enhedslisten for presenting this motion for a resolution: Parliament is instructing the government to donate any excess unopened covid-19 vaccine doses to the COVAX initiative in order to contribute to the global distribution of vaccines, especially to low-income countries. It is quite difficult to disagree that this is a good idea. So there is clearly support for the intentions of the proposal, but then, of course, the discussion arises, because when is it then that we have surplus vaccines available? There we are at the moment in a very uncertain place, as I see it. Now some of our vaccines are paused, and we can read in the media that there is in fact a great deal of doubt as to when the Danes have been vaccinated. We can see that the banks are out to say in relation to the observations they make in relation to the production of the vaccines, that Denmark may well end up being the European country where the population has been vaccinated lately, simply because it is not provided to a sufficient extent in relation to what has been promised, and in that we have then paused some of the vaccines on which we have options and which we have bought, we can then risk going as far as November. Then there are also some unknowns, and the question is how long those who were vaccinated first are protected. Indeed, nobody knows anything about this, so we can also find ourselves in a situation where we are actually going to re-vaccine before the whole population has been vaccinated. So there's a lot of unknowns in this. So what is it that needs to happen to ensure that we get the Danish population vaccinated as soon as possible? If you could make some trade with AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson and then maybe get some Pfizer-BioNTech instead, that could be an obvious possibility. There are several things that I think should be taken into account, because it is basically about the fact that we have as many people vaccinated throughout the world as possible. We clearly have a responsibility there. Not only does it benefit those people, but it benefits the whole world. The more people who have been vaccinated quickly, the better we get to be world wide. I think we should take our international responsibilities on board. I am also pleased that we have helped in India, and that is quite in the spirit that we want from the conservative side. We also have to donate these excess vaccines when it can be done up and you can say: Now the Danish population has been vaccinated and we have a real surplus that we should not use ourselves. Then, of course, they must be made available so that as many citizens around the world are vaccinated as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505172746	You're welcome, sir. Per Larsen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505172809	Thank you. We're in this situation, it's a funny story, and now I'm from Aarhus myself, so it might as well be an Aarhus story... that the government says that the population needs to be vaccinated before we can open up society. The infection is low, but you still don't want to open up society. But the infection is so low that you don't want to vaccinate the population. And because you don't vaccinate the population, you can't open up society. Well, it sounds mostly like an Aarhus story. Then there is a resolution here to use the excess vaccines, but we are in a situation here where we have no idea what will become of excess vaccines. So, with the approach that the government has to it and how to assess it on an ongoing basis, we do not know what becomes of excess vaccines. I'm beginning to doubt that you'll even open up society before we get to the next season again, when you say, "Well, here it comes again." And then we're gonna do another round. Of course, we can give an indication that it is very appropriate that if we have vaccines in excess, they should of course be used. Forgive the expression, but it would be headless to destroy some vaccines you have in excess. So I can quite easily follow that. Whether you do it within the EU or whether you do it under the COVAX or something else, you have to discuss it. It may also be that there are European countries that need it, and there I actually agree with the government that if some neighbouring countries need it, we must also help them. But we're not even there yet. We have plenty of problems with the fact that there is no reasoning in this regard that people will not be vaccinated because there is too low an infection and therefore will not open up society. So let's just deal with those problems first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505173010	You're welcome, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Then the trip has come to the Liberal Alliance; they are not here. Jens Rohde has also formally seen the right to speak, but he must be present in the Chamber. We shall move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten (The Red Greens).
ParlaMint-DK_20210505173035	Thank you for that, President. After all, it is a good thing that we have to be present in the Chamber in order to be able to speak. That fg. President. - I call the Commission. That's the way it is. I would also like to thank you for the debate and the comments that have come to the proposal here. The Covid-19 crisis has served as a form of magnifying glass on global inequality. The enormous inequality in health and in access to vaccines has become very clear during this crisis. You can just look right now at India, which in these weeks has been hit by a serious health disaster, without being able to vaccinate its own population, people who are already living close and exposed and who have extremely limited access to necessary health facilities. Unfortunately, we have also seen wealthy countries downgrade international solidarity, and we have witnessed and participated ourselves in a vaccine hoarding or vaccine nationalism. The WHO has recently estimated that 70 per cent. of the world's population need immunity to stop the pandemic. According to WHO, it's only 0.3 percent. of the vaccines that have been distributed that have been used in the low-income countries of the world. 87 per cent. of the vaccines have gone to rich countries. In our part of the world, up to one in four have been vaccinated. In low-income countries, it is about 1 in 500. It is therefore a striking difference which requires us to take greater global responsibility for securing vaccines for everyone. The COVAX initiative is an excellent initiative and a crucial mechanism to ensure that the world's vulnerable people and low-income countries can receive vaccines. COVAX has set a target for obtaining vaccines at 20%. of the population of the 92 countries that are part of the vaccination programme. Unfortunately, however, COVAX is already behind the rollout. Here we have a concrete opportunity to help by donating the vaccines that we do not need ourselves. It is important to stress that what we are proposing is a decision in principle. Donation must be done with respect to our national vaccine programme, possible options, revaccination needs and everything that cannot be foreseen here where we stand today. With a decision in principle, we want to ensure that all the vaccines that can be made available are used in the best possible way and do not end up dusting in a freezer on Amager or the worst must be thrown into the bin when they exceed their expiry date. What we are proposing today is exclusively about vaccines that we do not need or that we cannot use before they become obsolete. We understand very well that this should be practically possible, but we hope that this decision of principle can create the best starting point for action. It is positive that the government has set aside 100 million. kr. to COVAX, but money alone cannot do so, all the time that COVAX lacks vaccines. Norway has already donated vaccines to COVAX, as have both France and New Zealand. A few days ago, Sweden announced that one million doses of vaccines will be donated to COVAX. So we know that this can be done and other countries have chosen to take that responsibility. All opportunities for donation should be explored with a constructive approach. We know that the time we waste plays a huge role. If possible, we must work to ensure that our donation is made by directly transferring the pre-ordered vaccines, that is to say those on which we have purchase options, to other countries so that the vaccines can be transferred directly from the production facility. That is what we also know the government itself recommends, because that is what COVAX wants. For the doses of vaccines that have already come to Denmark and that we will not need, we need to clarify whether COVAX is interested in receiving them, or in managing a distribution and global priority, or whether we should just donate them bilaterally to countries in great need, such as the United Kingdom. currently in India. It is important for us to stress that the donation of surplus vaccines is not a long-term solution to the structural challenges associated with the global patent system and the role and dominance of pharmaceutical companies. Unfortunately, through the pandemic, we have seen the more privileged countries block the suspension of the licences that WTO rules allow in the event of a public health crisis. We shall continue to pursue this. Here and now it is important that we pursue all the leads to ensure that as many vaccines as possible reach those most at risk. For us, it is both about showing global solidarity and about the health and safety of all of us. For as several have already mentioned, no one is safe until everyone is safe. We propose that we try to draw up a joint report and see whether we cannot collect a majority for a decision in principle not to throw vaccines out in the future, where our needs are met, but how much of the rest of the world will continue to scream about getting enough vaccines for their populations. It is both global responsibility and solidarity, but it is also about protecting ourselves and the rest of the world from a pandemic where new, possibly resistant, variants arise, the longer the pandemic rages. With the comments that have been made here during the debate, I am actually looking reasonably confidently at the fact that we can achieve some kind of joint report. I am still quite unaware of the reservations expressed both by the government and by the Social Democrats, which I can also hear in part, in any case, shared by the Left, in relation to where the excess vaccines that we have had must be donated. It seems to me that there are no other obvious options than to donate them to COVAX, precisely because we can take our global responsibility there, but even if we had to consider the geopolitical challenges that may be, I find it hard to see anything other than that the fact that we can just donate to COVAX, because also in geopolitical terms, we would be much better off than if it were primarily, let us just say Russia or China, which will be primarily donating vaccines. So, for many reasons, I think it is quite obvious that we are taking on our global responsibility in relation to this epidemic and therefore, of course, donating the vaccines that we will not have to use ourselves to the COVAX initiative, because they are the ones who have both the knowledge and the ability to ensure that the vaccines are rolled out and can also help to ensure logistics in relation to it, i.e. that the vaccines actually come out. After all, we are still facing a huge challenge in relation to global inequality, because this is just an example of the fact that the benefits in the world are extremely unequally distributed, and in relation to ensuring completely basic healthcare in those parts of the world where it is most needed, there is still a crying need, and there is a screaming need for help, because this is not just about vaccines; it is also about a completely basic infrastructure to ensure that these people can also receive vaccination. I look forward to the fact that we will, hopefully, be able to jointly produce a report in which agreement can be reached on a decision in principle that surplus vaccines should be donated to COVAX and that we will then also help to lift our share of global responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505173817	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Stinus Lindgreen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505173821	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech and for making this proposal. This is an important debate. One thing is the number of vaccines we have bought options for, another is the durability of these vaccines, where we have to be careful that we do not discuss it for so long that they actually expire and have to be thrown into the bin anyway. Having listened to the debate here today, it sounds as if some of the disagreement that may exist is about the definition of what excess really means. I would like to ask the rapporteur how the rapporteur defines the excess in this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505173853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505173854	I really think that I also mentioned this in my rapporteur's speech, that is to say that it is precisely a question of securing the vaccines that we need to use ourselves, and this is both a question of revaccination, but in principle it can also be a question of swapping with other countries in relation to securing vaccine doses. But at some point we have to say, with the vaccine doses we have available, that there will be a surplus. And these are the vaccines we're talking about... what are we gonna do with them? And it is quite obvious to me that we should donate them to COVAX and ensure that they are then used where they do the most good, namely in the low and middle-income countries where there is a screaming need for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505173936	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Health Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505173956	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505174018	Thank you, President, and thank the authors of the new citizens' motion for a resolution on the abolition of aid for Palestinian self-government. In their comments on the proposal, the proposers state that they do not believe that Danish tax dollars should go to Palestine. I will come back to that. The proposers also refer in their comments to an article from Weekendavisen of 2016 on the criticism of the Palestinian self-government's financial support for Palestinian prisoners in Israeli prisons and their families. Let me first state quite clearly that Denmark is not helping to finance this aid. Denmark does not provide budget support for Palestinian self-government. Danish aid funds for Palestine mainly go through multilateral organisations such as the World Bank and the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation or joint donor collaborations where control functions are built in. At the same time, we carry out our own controls through monitoring and financial inspection visits. Thus we can ensure that Danish funds go to the intended purpose. At the same time, let me also stress that the government shares the criticism in the motion for a resolution of the way in which the self-government pays benefits to prisoners and their families. At the heart of the problem is not whether social benefits are paid at all. You do that in many countries. We do the same here in Denmark. These are services designed to ensure that families in particular can continue a reasonably normal life. No, the root of the problem is the principle, that is, the principle, on which benefits are paid. The self-rule operates in such a way that it pays the higher benefits the higher the penalty paid to the sentenced person. It can be seen as a reward for extreme actions, which the government is clearly opposed to. Therefore, Denmark has also on several occasions both itself and together with like-minded countries called for self-government to change the system so that the benefits are based instead on an assessment of needs. The same line is followed by the EU. We will continue to put pressure on self-government to change this system. However, the Government does not agree that Danish support for Palestine should be discontinued as a consequence of this practice. It is in Denmark's interest to help improve living conditions and create development in Palestine. This is important in order to reduce inequality, in order to provide alternatives to irregular migration and in order to support a solution to the long-term Israeli-Palestine conflict, and in the meantime it is important for the stability of the Palestinian territories. As we have just seen in the adoption on 13 April of the V 100 on development in the West Bank, there is broad support in the Folketing for Denmark to continue to work actively for a two-state solution between Israel and Palestine. Support for the two-state solution and the desire to continue to provide aid to Palestine are views we share with a broad circle of international donors, not least within the EU circle. In addition, the new American Biden administration is now resuming American support for Palestine, which is so much needed. The Israeli occupation of the West Bank and Gaza has consequences for the living conditions of the Palestinians. This is true, for example. in relation to export opportunities, freedom of movement and access to land, employment, natural resources, electricity and basic healthcare. The Palestinian economy cannot be linked in the present circumstances and without the support of donors. At the same time, it is also important to stress that many of the restrictions under which the Palestinians live in the occupied territories can only be finally remedied when there is a political solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The future strategic framework for Denmark's commitment to Palestine is therefore also based on a vision and an objective of a political solution to the conflict. Denmark's commitment has a twofold objective: to support the possibility of achieving a peaceful and negotiated solution while at the same time contributing to promoting stability in the region and improving the living conditions of the Palestinians trapped in the conflict. Political, development and humanitarian are therefore going hand in hand. This approach lies behind the new strategic framework for Denmark's overall commitment to Palestine for the period 2021 to 2025, which I presented to the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 9 February this year. Here, Denmark's foreign policy interests and development policy initiatives are combined in Palestine. The strategic framework has three general objectives. Firstly, we must promote human rights and democratic accountability. This is because it is important to strengthen democratic participation and the involvement of citizens in decision-making processes and because it will support the provision of public services. One important area of action in this regard is the protection of girls and women's rights, which is streamlined across our efforts. Secondly, we must create green, sustainable and inclusive economic growth and decent jobs. This must be done with a special focus on women and young people. Young people make up just under a third of the population of Palestine. Thirdly, we must promote resistance, peace and stability. Strengthened resilience of some of the most vulnerable groups in Palestine must help to reduce inequality and create hopes and alternatives to unregulated migration or militant activities. In this way, we will also help to ensure stability in the region. At the same time, improving the living conditions and resilience of the Palestinians are essential elements in supporting them in building a well-functioning state, which is part of a peaceful solution to the conflict. An important element of our overall commitment is that it should contribute to faith in a future in peace and with fair living conditions. In partnership with others, we must promote potential and development in Palestine. Finally, I would also like to point out that Israel too has a clear interest in international support for the Palestinians. An economic collapse in Palestine could lead to the collapse of self-government and could trigger a very serious security situation, both for the Palestinians and for the Israelis. The gaming room for extremists will be increased and Israel and its extensive security cooperation on the West Bank could be difficult to maintain with the serious consequences that it will have for both sides and their peoples. There is no doubt that there is still a real and significant need for international support for Palestine, and the support, as I have just described, is in Denmark's clear interest. That is why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands here. I look forward to the debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505174818	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505174824	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. If a country can afford to reward terrorists, does the Minister believe that they have earned support paid by the Danish taxpayers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505174841	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505174842	I have said very clearly in my speech here that the support given from self-government to the prisoners in Israeli prisons does not come from Danish taxpayers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505174852	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505174854	No, it is true that they do not do so directly, but the money comes into the system and relieves some other expenses, which then frees money to pay the terrorists. Can the Minister guarantee that this will not happen in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505174908	I have made it clear that the money we are giving here we are giving through multilateral organisations and other organisations where we have control over the management and review of those funds. I also have to say that it is the government's position that we should maintain support for Palestine in this way. It is in the interest of both Palestine and Israel, and it is exactly the same position that the European Union is also advocating, which is therefore the European Union's position in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505174936	Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505174937	I'd like to follow up on that, sir. Peter Seier Christensen says. It is true that budget support is not provided, as the Minister said in his speech, but financial guarantees are provided for the UN system and the EU system. This money, which actually starts with somewhere to be nice and decent money, ends up being sloppy money and wretched money through several channels, where PA, Palestinian self-government, donates money to the PLO, which sends them through some other channels. That's the problem. So we provide budget support for Palestine, and they are very good at putting them in all sorts of different places.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505175021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505175022	That is not how we view it, and I have made it clear why we are not doing it. It is because we make sharp distinctions in relation to what we support. We criticize so much and I made this very clear in my speech self-governed in order to manage and support the prisoners and their families in this way. It does not belong anywhere, in that it may exactly be an incentive, as I said in my speech, to make more serious crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505175050	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505175051	One cannot deny oneself the responsibility of allowing Danish money to pay for imprisoned terrorists and the relatives of the imprisoned terrorists. It happens, and that's what the money's going to do. It is, of course, very easy for the government to be able to say that it has nothing to do with us and that we are giving it to some organisations that know how to distribute this around. They don't. The UN system employs some 25-30,000 people in the Palestinian autonomous areas. That money, as I say, is channelled through all kinds of channels. So it is not fair for the Minister to say that we can wash our hands and that we have clean hands because it is given to someone who knows how to distribute it. It often goes through four or five terms until it is completely incalculable where the money originally came from.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505175139	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505175140	What we are ensuring is that we do not give budget support to Palestinian self-government. We give it through multilateral organisations, such as the World Bank and UN organisations. That is where we primarily give our funds. They have their administrative practices, and we are keeping an eye on them. We are a shareholder of the World Bank, and we also believe that the administrative aspects can be the things that we ourselves propose if we provide support through civil society organisations in Denmark, which cooperate with other countries' civil society organisations. This is absolutely necessary for Palestine and the situation they are in if there is to be a hopeful future and we really hope for that. It is a very long-term conflict and we hope that we can continue this pressure on both sides for a peaceful political solution, and I think it is very important to clarify again that it is in the interests of both Palestine and Israel and Europe and Denmark as well as Denmark that we ensure the stability that, after all, remains until a political solution is found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505175246	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505175249	Thank you for that, President of the Enhedslisten. In fact, we fully agree that we must, of course, continue to give support to Palestine's autonomy, because it is simply important. But it is also true that during our reign we actually went in and looked with critical glasses at the support. Among other things: there was the whole case of WATCH, which had been through a women's center to glorify a terrorist and named the women's center after him and everything else. And this meant that during our reign we actually stopped supporting, as I remember, about 25 different NGOs, i.e. because it was very, very doubtful whether we did not go in and directly promote various martyrs, as they call them, but as we would call terrorists etc. So a genuine question, and that is sincere, because I do not know the answer, is: are there any of the organisations that have been agreed and supported by the current government, and can we guarantee by the government that we do not go in and support any Palestinian NGOs that are going in and promoting and supporting and speaking nicely about terrorists?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505175401	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505175403	Thank you very much for the question. It is absolutely true that, at the request of the then Foreign Minister, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs conducted back in 2017 a review of support for the work of Israeli and Palestinian civil society organisations in Palestine. At the same time, a number of criteria were introduced, including: deals with respect for human rights and states that organisations undertake to implement, maintain and promote human rights only by non-violent means. And I am glad that today we have such a clear basis for support and that there is also agreement between the organisations and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this. It was a very important basis for creating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505175448	The next brief remark is to Mr. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505175456	Thank you, Minister. Although I hurried down here, I did not have time to hear the beginning of the speech, but I understood from the conclusion that it was agreed that we support civil organisations and not terrorist organisations or whoever it is, but Weekendavisen writes that there is evidence that there is support. In this context, I would like to ask a question following on from what the previous rapporteurs have asked. We know, among other things. from a report from 2017, that many of the human rights organisations, civil organisations that provide help, are being met by legislation that makes it difficult for them to work with emergency aid. Among other things: They are... sorry, now I just lost the thread, but the question really is: what will the Social Democracy and the Minister do to counter this pressure that these civil society organisations are encountering in the form of legislation that makes it difficult for them to work, that is to say, Israeli legislation, on the part of the Israeli state? What will the Minister and the government do to counter that pressure?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505175615	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505175616	Thank you for the question. So, wherever development aid is at stake in the world, human rights and democracy are what we value, and we do so in these contexts too. And that is the case, and I can say to the rapporteur that whatever civil society organisations we have in Denmark, which we support and which support civil society organisations in other countries, it is the values and criteria that are being set up for cooperation, and hence also for the support given by Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505175648	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505175650	I'm so glad to hear that. In practical terms, however, the United Nations Special Envoy in the Palestinian Territories, among other things. in a report from 2017 • that was when I lost the thread before the conclusion that human rights organisations have been met with legislation that complicates the work of organisations and that the Israeli Government has accused NGOs of being foreign agents or traitors. In this context, I would like to know more specifically whether the Minister intends to take the initiative to create counter-pressure, to draw attention to the international community and to address the Israeli Government and say: here we have a problem and that we simply must not prevent civil society organisations from doing their job. Are there any concrete plans? Are there any initiatives that the Minister will take to prevent this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505175738	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505175740	After all, we always speak the critical voice if there are rights, human rights or anything else that is being violated, and of course we speak this both with regard to Palestine and with regard to Israel. That's why it was a good question, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen put it before, because that is exactly what helps to clarify what criteria we are building our cooperation on. And I would just like to say that the conflict between Palestine and Israel has a great many conflicting elements that are being clarified, whether it be destruction, the demolition of Danish-funded things in the area, or it is about human rights or other elements, so it is part of what we normally call a critical dialogue. We want peace and happiness, and there has been no such thing in that region for decades, and that is a great wish on the Danish side, it is on the part of the international community and on the European side. For many years we have had a strong Nordic voice in this conflict, and we still have that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505175846	Thank you to the Minister for Development Cooperation. There are no more questions, and then we call on the Minister to clear the table in favour of Mr. Daniel Toft Jakobsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505175914	Thank you. At the risk that I might repeat some of the Minister's good points, I would like to start by saying that in the Social Democratic Party we support Danish aid to Palestine. With the aid we support the possibility of achieving a peaceful solution to this long-standing and also complex Israel-Palestine conflict in the long term. At the same time, we are helping to stabilise the Palestinian territories and the region here and now. The Israeli occupation has consequences for the living conditions of the Palestinians, both in the West Bank and in Gaza. The Palestinian economy cannot be linked in the present circumstances without aid, and it is in nobody's interest for Palestine to collapse. It will benefit neither Denmark nor Israel nor the rest of the world and, of course, neither will the Palestinians. Despite the limitations and the long-standing conflict, many good, tangible results have been achieved through our aid to Palestine. This applies in particular to building public institutions, improving the business environment and strengthening civil society actors that play a constructive role. As the Minister has explained, there is, of course, a thorough and comprehensive control of the Danish funds going to Palestine. It is ensured that Danish funds go to the intended purpose and we do not provide direct budget support for self-government. We are certainly critical, as the Minister also said, of the Palestinian self-government's financial support for Palestinian prisoners and their families, which is one of the things mentioned in the motion for a resolution. We are, because higher benefits are granted, the higher the penalty the convicted person has received; so it is not just as needed. We have repeatedly pointed this out, both bilaterally and via the European Union, and we must, of course, continue to press for this change. The Danish aid supports our political, developmental and humanitarian objectives for Palestine. We want to promote human rights, equality, democracy, peace, state building, a sustainable economy and better living conditions, and perhaps, most importantly, we want to give the Palestinians hope and faith in the future. This is especially true of young people. We think that they are entitled to do so, and it is absolutely essential that they continue to have faith in the future and that they continue to support a peaceful solution to this long-standing conflict. Social democracy cannot therefore support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505180158	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505180202	Thanks for the speech. I would like to ask the same question that I put to the Minister: does the rapporteur not see a problem in the fact that we are paying money to a country or a regime which, at the same time, is paying very large sums to terrorists? Of course, we are not paying the money directly to the terrorists, but because we are giving them support, we are releasing funds that they can use for something else. Does the rapporteur not see this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505180231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505180232	I can see that it would be a huge problem if we stopped giving aid to Palestine. That would be really, really bad for our own interests, but it would also be very bad for the many Palestinians who have a really difficult life. It would also be bad for Israel if Palestine collapsed completely. So I can see that it would be a major problem if we stopped giving aid and if the rest of the world also stopped supporting Palestine financially. Then I fully acknowledge that, in general terms, there are sometimes some dilemmas in the area of development. Sometimes you support some countries or areas where there are some things you can criticise. It is just important that the aid given for all the good purposes of human rights and everything else goes hand in hand with the fact that there can also be a critical dialogue on what we are critical of.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505180331	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505180334	Well, this is a very complex situation, and I understand that the rapporteur also sees the problem, but since it is such a complex situation, would it not be more reasonable to leave it to the Danes to decide for themselves whether they will donate to relief organizations which could then work in Palestine instead of forcing all Danish taxpayers to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505180357	I think that Denmark has a huge interest in how this whole situation develops and I think that Denmark, as I said, should help to ensure that there is hope for a future for young Palestinians as well. If they do not have that hope, I think that at some point the possibility of finding a solution to that conflict will be much less. So, no, I think we should use Danish aid funds, of course, based on some values of solidarity with some people who are having a really hard time, but of course also to promote our values and interests out there in the big world.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505180439	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to Mr. Daniel Toft Jakobsen. So I'd like to ask, sir. Daniel Toft Jakobsen to wipe off the table, then Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Denmark's Liberal Party, can come up risklessly on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505180504	Thank you, President. There is no doubt that we in the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, also clearly believe that on the one hand it is worrying that, unfortunately, Palestinian self-government still finds it entirely legitimate to spend money, among other things. to the families of deceased terrorists in the way they do and call them martyrs. We also find it extremely problematic that there is still no complete security around the funds in relation to corruption and other matters. That cannot be called into question at all. That is not only worrying, it is also unacceptable. That is why, of course, everything can always be done both from the donor community in general, via the UN system and generally from the Danish Government, and put all the pressure we can on the Palestinian Government, that is. The Fatah government. That also means that when we say it on the one hand, it is important to say it on the other hand, namely that if we stopped giving support, if the world community said: there are so many disadvantages in giving support to Palestinian self-government that we stop doing so now, we will have an even bigger, incalculable problem ahead of us. After all, we are experiencing an area in which many millions of people live in relatively little space. There is too much unemployment in the region, and it also means that if we did not go in and give support to Palestinian self-government, I would like to make it very clear that I think it is the assessment of all experts as in all of them and that is not acceptable or, at least, something that I want to have. Therefore, yes, things are not always just black or white. Therefore, it is also the case that we have to stick to the dialogue, we have to stick to the cooperation, and we also have to stick to the funding, because right now we need to back the current government up everything we can. I am very concerned about what the elections will mean for Palestinian self-government. I am. I know that there are some who think that what is happening right now with Fatah is really terrible. But what if Fatah loses? What happens next? I mean, it's not gonna be any better than that. It's gonna be worse. That is why we must also bear in mind that the decisions we are taking will also have a concrete impact on what is going to happen in the forthcoming elections, in relation to whether we will then give air to some forces that I certainly do not want to give air to. That is why, although we can easily understand the frustration, although we can easily understand the concern, we cannot support the resolution as it stands. We would rather follow up on what we ourselves started in our time, namely the critical approach and also the need to stop funding specific projects from time to time if there is any doubt as to what that funding is for. But the overall support for the Palestinians is one hundred per cent, because we think it is important. Anything else will be counterproductive to the stability of the region.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505180844	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mr. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505180848	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. The rapporteur mentions that we must put pressure on self-government down there. We have done so for a long time, and the world community has done so. How'd it go? Is it getting better?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505180904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505180905	Well, actually, I think it is. Although that is, what should we say, mouse steps and it's mouse steps, I actually think it's getting better. We really have a Fatah and a PLO system and the like, which has stopped the desire to put Israel into the sea and everything else. After all, they still have the problems of the whole of Gaza and Hamas and all sorts of other things. But I do believe that, in relation to Fatah, we have actually got a partner with whom we can negotiate and with whom we can talk, also diplomatically, and I think that is actually a step forward in terms of what it was like just 20 years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505180948	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Peter Seier Christensen has an extra question, and I want him to have it. He looked like he didn't want it. I tried to read the body language, but he wanted permission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505181007	The rapporteur speaks of the fact that the regime that is down there is more moderate than what would otherwise come. How can it be referred to as moderate when they pay millions to support terrorists who kill innocent people? How can you call it moderate?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505181031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505181032	This can be done because, unfortunately, we are up against an alternative called Hamas, which is primarily geopolitically controlled by Iran. This will actually open up the possibility that Iran will then control the Palestinian self-government area with the direct consequence that the West, i.e. the United States and Europe etc., will have zero power which in zero Hamas has still gone as a stated goal that Israel must be removed from the surface of the Earth, i.e. real war, and not having anything called Israel. That is not how Fatah and the PLO feel; they want peaceful coexistence. So although I agree that there are many things about Fatah and the PLO that I am not satisfied with, the alternative is unfortunately marked ■ with the emphasis on significantly worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505181129	I apologize to Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. And then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505181137	Thank you. Forgive me for calling the rapporteur the President of the Left. It could be exciting right now, couldn't it? The rapporteur is beginning to wonder what happens after the elections, if there is an election I don't know if there is a win in Hamas. That is actually what we are talking about. So what do we do? What does the Left think should happen? Should we then cut off the link with Palestine, should we not give them more support, or what? Because there is no doubt that we officially see Hamas as a terrorist organisation in Denmark, the United States and the West.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505181222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505181223	That's an amazingly good question. On the one hand, we are clear in the spit, compared to Hamas being a terrorist organization. Hamas has too many lives on his conscience and is far too much governed by Iran. On the other hand, we also have to see what really comes out of a possible electoral victory. Will there be a coalition government that this time will hold? What does that really mean? So I cannot give a clear yes/no answer to Mr. Søren Espersen, but just say that I will certainly do everything I can if I can do a lot to ensure that Hamas does not win, because it would be deeply, deeply damaging to both Israel and the Palestinians, but also to the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505181305	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505181307	I must admit that I am not satisfied with that answer. It's not an answer to anything that's incredibly important. Is the Left ready to give financial support to a Palestine ruled by Hamas? I may take a slightly different view from the rapporteur, but in my optics there is no doubt as to what will happen next. However, I am somewhat surprised and disappointed that the Left is hesitating in this way, as the rapporteur says.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505181337	But that all depends on what kind of model it is. Will it be a model for Lebanon, where you yourself have a political branch of Hezbollah, which sits in unity governments with which you can talk, and which is still a partner with the West? Or it will be Hamas classic, where they want to do everything they can to remove Israel from the surface of the earth, etc. We cannot have any cooperation with that. And that is why it is difficult to give a clear answer, and I think that Mr. Søren Espersen, with his long experience of foreign policy, nevertheless agrees with me that, compared to this area, nothing is black and white, and that is why we need to look at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505181417	Thank you, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen. There is no one else who wishes to speak too briefly in this round, and that is why we welcome Mr Beazley's report. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505181439	Thank you very much, and above all a great deal of thanks to New Citizens for putting forward the proposal here to remove aid to Palestinian self-government called PA. The proposal runs very well with the position of the Danish People's Party, which I have also expressed over the years. We want to stop payments to PA immediately. Because if you dive into the huge sums of money throughout this gigantic aid scandal, you cannot help but be deeply shaken by what is going on when the PA receives their annual payments from the European Union, from the United States, from the United Nations, from Arab countries, etc. We are talking corruption, we are talking nepotism, we are talking payouts to convicted terrorists and their families, and we are talking about how the PA is trying very cleverly to hide how the money really lands in all kinds of and impossible pockets. PMW, namely the Palestinian Media Watch, and the Norwegian MIFF, with Israel for peace, have been following for years the neat and neat transfers of funds from gullible Western governments for purposes that smell of fraud and deception. It is estimated that at least 1 billion of fraud is being committed. kr. per years. For example, in 2018 and 2019, PA reported in their monthly budget reports expenditure on something called the Ministry of Prison Affairs, which means payments to imprisoned terrorists and their families. The amount was in Danish kroner 950 million. kr. and 983 million kr. PA paid millions of shekels, the Israeli currency, in terror pay. This was done in a closed system so that payments could never be seen in their budget. In 2020, PA again paid terrorist wages through the PLO, which could then pass on the money. Last year, however, there were problems with these transfers of funds. Indeed, in December 2020, Israel carried out a long-awaited anti-terrorist leave which prohibits all banking transactions aimed at paying the salary of terrorist acts, which means that PA can no longer use the banks responsible for paying the terrorist salary. There was supposed to be panic in the PA when the Israeli law was passed, and other solutions are now being worked out frantically. Our neighbouring country, Norway, has long since found out that something is amber-breathing wrong and has reacted to it. The first cut was 30 million. kr. in budget support for PA and there will be further. The Norwegian Government will partly protest about the terrorist wages and partly about the jihad education in schools, where students are directly encouraged to sacrifice their lives in jihad against Israelis. The Prime Minister of the PA, Mohammad Shtayyeh, gave a speech in which he scolded Norway, stating that Norway had now become the victim of Israel's propaganda apparatus. The school books in the Palestinian autonomous areas are horrendous. I have seen them, and they contain calls for violence, martyrdom and jihad, which are included in all classes. The possibility of peace with Israel is rejected. Any historical Jewish presence in Israel's present territories and autonomous territories is completely cleansed away from the textbooks. It is quite awful that Danish taxpayers' money ends up in the pockets of terrorists and in the production of the most disgusting calls for children and young people to go the jihad way Once again, I would like to thank the authors of the New Citizens' Party for raising this absolutely necessary debate in the Folketing, which year after year grants the money of nice Danes, who so clever channels are slugged into the terrorists and their relatives. A curiosity is that we in Denmark actually have a law prohibiting financial support for terrorists, and I can see that changing Danish governments are repeatedly violating their own law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505181902	Thank you. Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505181905	Thank you, and thank you very much for your speech and... that's what I expected, so thank you for that. Thank you very much).
ParlaMint-DK_20210505181921	There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505181932	Of all the bad resolutions that we have dealt with, I still think that this is at the top of the list. We can rightly criticise Palestinian self-government for many things, among others. corruption, nepotism and a thin, to say the least, democracy, but to deprive self-government of help is to push a hard-pressed people even further out. The consequences, and especially if others follow our path, can become completely incalculable in a region so plagued by conflicts. Does New Citizens really want the present regime replaced by an extreme government? For it is also in Israel's interest that the Palestinian people should see hope and have the opportunity to live a life, a people who daily undergo incredible humiliations and gross discrimination. Both Israeli military and settlers have destroyed aid projects financed from Denmark on several occasions. As recently as 22 April, settlers destroyed Danish development projects in agriculture in the West Bank, and the military has destroyed wells and water projects supported by Denmark and the EU. So would the answer to the need and the response to the aggression of both the settlers and the military really be to remove support from the area from the people who experience oppression every day by living in an apartheid-like country? Is the answer really to make life harder for ordinary people? Or is the answer not, on the contrary, solidarity with Palestine? I think that's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505182138	It was fine. Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505182142	This is a strange logic which the SF rapporteur has put forward here. I mean, it's a oppressed people, they're feeling really bad, but we have to give them support, even if they give support to terrorists. Why don't you encourage them not to do this? How about encouraging them to stop supporting terrorists and their families? In other words, when one should not exclude the other, it is perfectly legal to support terrorists because it is a people who are not feeling very well. That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505182215	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505182216	No, but in relation to the sentence that Mr. Søren Espersen says, that one does not rule out the other, that one does not rule out the other, that we must then continue with the support of a people who, every day, have to bite humiliations, who experience both physical distress, material deprivation and experience families being divided. And we can do that, while at the same time, when it is appropriate to do so, and it is actually quite often appropriate to criticise Palestinian self-government, both in terms of corruption, nepotism and, I think, in terms of a very thin-minded democracy. So you can do that at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505182253	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505182254	So the Palestinian people are humiliated, and then they can use terror. Well, that is what I hear the SF's rapporteur says, that it is quite logical when you are pressed in the way they are when they are humiliated day by day, as the rapporteur himself said, and then terrorism is okay, and you want to give them support for it so that they can continue terrorism. That is what is being said. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505182317	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505182319	No, it was simply a short summary, I have to say, because I say that precisely because they are a oppressed people, they have the right to receive help. They certainly do not have the right to engage in terrorism, but I say that precisely because they live in such desperate circumstances of life, I think they have a right to our solidarity and our help. That was the context I made, and it was certainly not the right to carry out terrorism. No one has.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505182346	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505182347	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. Does the rapporteur not think that it is totally unacceptable that self-government should pay the money they pay to terrorists?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505182359	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505182400	To the extent that I know the story, I think it is a grotesque way of spending the money, to the extent that I just know how to distribute the money, just like there are other parts of the administration that Palestinian self-government has, where I think: these were some choices that I have nothing left over. That could be one of them, even though I don't know in detail how they let the money go to terrorists. However, as has been said, I think it is deeply reprehensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505182429	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505182433	Does the rapporteur know of examples of other countries to which we are donating money, which are openly giving money to terrorists?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505182440	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505182442	No, I guess I don't, but I'm pretty sure we're giving a lot of development aid to countries where we're not very excited about the regime that's in power. We actually have many examples of that, but where we say that it's important for us to support the people's ability to live a decent life; it's in Denmark's interest, but it's in that country's interest that we support the people, although we can, to put it mildly, have some differences with the regime that is in that country. Because if we were only to give foreign aid to countries where we like the regime, that would be a proper saving in our development aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505182516	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. And the next rapporteur must be Mr. Christian Juhl, because there is no one from the Radical Left. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505182529	Thank you for that and thank you to the President for your help for a moment while I give my rapporteur's speech. Denmark was one of the first countries to recognise Israel as a country. Denmark should be one of the first countries to help ensure that Palestine has its own country where it can develop democracy and decent conditions to live in peace with its neighbours. When we talk about aid to Palestine, it is because it is an occupied country and because they have not got the country that they have been promised by the international community, including Denmark, for very, very many years. Israel is an occupying power. They exercise state terrorism against civilians. They make illegal settlements, etc. etc. In this context, the Palestinians are an obsessed people with limited right to rule in their own territory. In Israeli prisons there are political prisoners and there are sick people, there are elderly people, there are children. You're being mistreated. There may be terrorists whose terrorists are some who have attacked civilian Israelis. There are resistance fighters who have actively resisted the occupation force • something we in Denmark today and yesterday have honored when it comes to some of the Danes who actively opposed when we were possessed. I don't call them terrorists, I call them people who fight for the freedom of their own country. Then there are political opponents who are imprisoned without even being for a judge. Everyone gets welfare, and so do their families, because they must have something to live on, like prisoners in Denmark get welfare assistance, no matter what punishment they have been given. Israel has just been declared an apartheid state, a state which uses unregulated methods to divide the Palestinians, so it is virtually impossible to build an independent state. What's the alternative? The alternative is that we are doing much more to force the occupying person to accept that the Palestinians should have their own country and that they should have the right to live in peace in their own area. If we do not do so, the quite unsustainable situation in the region will continue at the moment. There is no point in glorifying either Israelis or Palestinians, because there is nothing to glorify in this conflict. There's only one thing, and that's that someone is helping them solve this conflict so that both people get their own country and can live without threats in everyday life. We cannot support the proposal because it is necessary to support the Palestinians as long as they are an occupied country and as long as we have not given them the right to have their own country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505182832	Thank you. Sir. Søren Espersen Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505182834	I have to admit, I'm furious that sir... Christian Juhl on 5 May stands and compares Danish freedom fighters with Hamas and terrorists. I don't understand that comparison at all. The very fact that the Danish resistance and freedom fighters never went for civilian goals, but always for military goals, makes there a world of difference. So, I'd like to have Mr. Senator... Christian Juhl withdraws that remark because it was inappropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505182902	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505182903	I'd like to invite Mr. Søren Espersen to listen to me. I say that there may be terrorists in Israeli prisons who may have bombed civilians. There are also resistance fighters who have actively opposed the Israeli authorities. It's a right they have under international rules. If you are an occupied country, you have the right to actively resist the overpower that is there, it means police and military. There's nothing new about that. I hope not, sir. Søren Espersen thinks. This is what happened from 1940-1945 in Denmark, a piece in 1940, perhaps almost 1941, I would say when parts of the Danish population actively opposed the German occupying power.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505182952	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505182954	But the Danish freedom fighters did not commit terrorism because they never went for civilian targets. It is true that they attacked an occupying power, and I do not even think this is the case in relation to the Israel-Palestine conflict, because that is another story, a legal story, which we two have also discussed many times. But that there should be a connection, that it should be mentioned at all in this context on 5 May, seems to me to be outrageous. Is it okay that we continue to give support to a system that in this way hatches terrorists and calls for and drives terrorism?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505183037	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505183038	Firstly, I have not heard the PA call for terrorism. Secondly, I distinguish between terrorism and opposition, as I said in my speech, and as I repeated in my reply to Mr. Søren Espersen. If Søren Espersen generalises and says that all those in Israeli prisons are terrorists, then we cannot talk, because that is not true. It's a lot of different people sitting there. Many of them have not even been for a judge, which means that we do not even know what they could actually have been convicted of if they had ever been convicted. They are simply interned, and this also shows the Israelis' attitude and how they treat Palestinians: into the kachot, and stay there for a very, very many years. And then call them terrorists, because then someone like Søren Espersen can go around and use that expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505183125	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505183128	Christian Juhl, I'd like to ask Mr. Peter Seier Christensen about speaking a little loudly because I am very badly listening to others. Many years in the iron and steel industry). Okay, I'll do that. The rapporteur says that there may be civilians killed. Is the rapporteur in doubt as to whether civilians have died in terrorist attacks in Israel?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505183148	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505183149	No, I'm not. I'm just wondering if they're in Israeli prisons. I say that there may be people in Israeli prisons who can be described as terrorists. I don't know, because they've never been to a judge, so we don't know what the verdict would have been if they'd come to a judge. Some of them may have been close to coming before a military court, but I do not know at present whether terrorists are in Israeli prisons. I know that there are opponents and that there are political opponents who have never been allowed to appear before a judge. That is why I shall confine myself to commenting on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505183223	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. And then it is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505183232	After all, this is not a new discussion in this Chamber; the discussion has also been taken before my time, I could read it here, because the former Foreign Minister, Anders Samuelsen, said among other things. in 2018, and I quote: "... I would like to emphasise a key point, namely that financial support for Palestinian prisoners and their families is not financed by Danish aid crowns or by EU funds. Denmark does not provide budget support for self-government; Danish aid funds to Palestine mainly go through multilateral organisations or joint donor arrangements where control functions are built in. The aid funds are therefore earmarked for specific actions such as state-building, economic development and human rights. Against this background, the then Foreign Minister could not support what was then the Danish People's Party's proposal on the same subject that I could read myself to. We now have a proposal from the New Citizens' Party. There I would also go back to history and say that we have been providing aid to Palestine since the Oslo agreements in the 1990s, and the aim is to build a Palestinian state as part of a two-state solution, thereby also supporting a peace settlement between the Israelis and the Palestinians. In fact, much of the work we are doing in Palestine is also going on two legs, and so we also support an Israeli centre for human rights in the occupied territories. There are also various dialogues across, which are also supported, there are also youth programmes. After all, we also support primarily through UNRRA, which several of us had the pleasure of meeting here earlier this year and which, of course, runs schools, health, etc. in Palestine; if they were not there, there were no teachers, then there was no education. That is why we want to maintain support for Palestine as it is happening today, but of course we also need to ensure that there is no fraud with aid funds. It is, of course, in general that we must always ensure that our funds go to where they are going to benefit and where they have an effect, and to the right groups. So the Conservative People's Party does not support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505183453	Thank you. Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505183455	Thank you. Well, this is a sophisticated discussion about budget support. I would really like to hear whether the rapporteur will accept that we are giving money, as in the sounding coin, to the UN system, to the EU system, to the World Bank system, which then distributes the money. Well, that's how it goes. Then we can always wash our hands and say: we do not give budget support. Yes, we do. We just let some other channels lock it on, and through all sorts of quirks the money ends up with terrorists and their families. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505183526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505183527	It is then an analysis or consideration that Søren Espersen has in relation to what is then defined as budget support. When you channel funds into a multilateral system which is responsible for paying salaries to teachers, you can call it budget support or not, but it is precisely instead of going to a state that does it with a blank cheque. It doesn't. It goes directly through UNRWA, which has the mandate it has, and it acts, among other things. to provide for schooling and books, and what else they buy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505183558	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505183559	But this isn't about the salary of teachers or schoolbooks, even though they're so horrible. I've seen them, including the English editions of them. It's quite awful what's written there. But that's one thing. Something else is that I just think it is important for the rapporteur to recognise something. If I give money to the rapporteur, who then passes it on to someone else, then I have not given the other person any money, that is what the rapporteur is actually saying, and that was also the logic of the former Foreign Minister Anders Samuelsen's approach. We are giving direct budgetary support to Palestinian self-government and thus also support for terrorists.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505183635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505183636	Thank you. We do not do that if we support through the multilateral, because then all multilateral aid would be budget support. Is this how I should understand Søren Espersen's reasoning? I guess that's it. If it were purely bilateral from the Danish side, we would not have the comparative strength ourselves, which is why we get more for our money by giving it to a specialized organisation that just knows how to work there and make it neutral. Then it's more effective in our optics. We've also had a representative office down there, but I actually think that's closed. There you were on the Danish side. But there are built-in control functions, and we must of course ensure that there is no waste, and therefore the head of UNRWA was among others. in Denmark, of course also to have a discussion about what the status is and what is going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505183732	Thank you. And because there are no more rapporteurs, Mr. Sikandar Siddique, Outside the Groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505183752	Only last week, the international and widely recognised human rights organisation, Human Rights Watch, found that the Palestinians are living under apartheid-like conditions and that their occupationers, that is, the Israeli state, are guilty of crimes against humanity. It is only a week ago, and yet here today we are debating New Citizens' proposals to abandon the Palestinians; to deprive them of the help we send from Denmark. It feels quite, quite wrong that it is proof that New Citizens have an unsurpassed certainty when it comes to putting themselves on the wrong side of history. They are always on the wrong side in this matter; on the side of apartheid; on the side of those who commit crimes against humanity. That is why, of course, the Greens cannot support the proposal under any circumstances. Denmark should instead support the Palestinians much more. We should say no to Israel. Our Prime Minister should not take part in Netanyahu's public relations show and extend cooperation with what is most of all reminiscent of a high-tech apartheid state, a little as it came out last week's report. The government should take a clear and unequivocal stand against the crimes committed by the Israeli state and the illegal settlements. We should insist that the Palestinians should, of course, have exactly the same rights as the Israelis, whether the solution becomes a one-state or a two-state solution. At the same time, when we are discussing a resolution today which more specifically concerns Danish aid to Palestine, it is important to make it clear that we in the Free Greens believe that we need to do more to increase the scope for action of the organisations to which civil society support goes. The UN has warned on several occasions that civil society support is under severe pressure, as Israel is trying to share with civil society organisations that are critical of, among others, civil society organisations. Israeli settlements. The Palestinian struggle for freedom, equal rights and the right to self-determination is of great concern to the Free Greens, not especially because they are Palestinians, but because they are citizens on this planet who, like all of us, must have the opportunity to practise the human rights that should apply to us all. For human rights will only be of real value when they apply to all, including the Palestinians. What I am trying to say is that we have been passive for far too long while Israel has been practicing state terrorism. For far too long, we have watched passively while children, older and old are being imprisoned. For too long we have been watching while the human rights of the Palestinians are being violated. And for far too long we have been watching while an entire Palestinian population is locked up in an open prison. The time is for a free Palestine. The time has come to stand up for the Palestinian people. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505184114	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505184118	If the rapporteur knows a little about what I have been saying in the past about the Israel-Palestine conflict, the rapporteur will also know that I do not in any way support everything that the Netanyahu government in particular does and has done. But I must admit that I think there is a huge imbalance in what we are now hearing, Mr President. Sikandar Siddique say, because there was not a word that the Palestinians also bear a primary responsibility or responsibility for that matter. They obviously bear no responsibility; it is only the Israelis who are responsible for the death of civilians. Then it is just that my question to the rapporteur is very simple: does Mr. Sikandar Siddique not that for example. the fact that Hamas is killing civilians, and that Hamas has a declared objective of removing Israel from the world map, is helping to destabilise the situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505184216	The answer can be very simple: yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505184224	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505184225	That means that I have to ask why not a single word was said about it in the speech? One thing, of course, is that I am happy with that answer, but that is just not what Mr. Sikandar Siddiques talks about what the Free Greens want and won't. My whole point is that if we are to ensure stability so that we have two countries living together in the long run, we will also have to make demands on both sides. That is why I just want the Free Greens to say to the Palestinians: you also have a responsibility to ensure stability; it is not just Israel.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505184305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505184306	This is because the balance does not exist at all in this conflict. We have a high-tech modern state against Palestinians who do not have the same rights. We've got combat soldiers facing kids with rocks. It's not exactly. Of course that's why I answered very clearly and clearly before there are also wrong things going on on the other side. But it is wrong to say that we are dealing here with two parties that are equal. That is not true, and until we, as a society, both as a country, but also internationally, recognise it, we cannot help to resolve the conflict. That is why I am focusing on the report that came last week, namely that there are apartheid-like conditions in Israel.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505184405	Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505184407	We had a review of the rapporteur's position on this, but it did not really have anything to do with the motion for a resolution, namely whether Denmark should continue to pay for a system where money ends up with terrorists and the relatives of terrorists, and which in every way supports terrorism, or whether we should stop doing so. That is the starting point for this motion for a resolution. These are not a whole lot of stories about the Israeli-Arab conflict. I think we're all aware of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505184437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505184437-2	But the only question is, what is the alternative? In other words, should we not support it, should we not contribute to a solution, should we not support a people, a self-government that is already at its knees? What is the solution? I believe that we need to step in and strengthen civil society organisations. We need to build social infrastructure, including education. We need to build up all other infrastructure. That is exactly what needs to be done, and then we must provide as much help as we possibly can to the Palestinian people, because they need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505184520	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505184521	The rapporteur asks what the alternative is. Well, the alternative to supporting terror is not to support terror. It's really very simple. That is a very simple way of saying it. There are plenty of things that could be supported by the Palestinians, but many people hesitate to do so. I mentioned Norway in my speech as one of those who won't be there anymore. When you constantly see how these payments are made to all these different terrorist families, you lose the desire to support. So I would just like to concentrate on one thing: is it okay for our nice Danish tax dollars to go to something as miserable as terrorism?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505184601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505184602	I would like to say that I would like to call on my colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Søren Espersen to be careful about slinging out so that not supporting the proposal means supporting terrorism. I know that was not what was said directly, but it could sound like that. So I would just like to call for that. In addition, I would like to say that we in Denmark support civil society organisations. We do not support terrorism. We just don't. It is simply factually wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505184636	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique. There are no more brief comments. And then we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505184655	Thank you for the floor. Thank you to the Minister for his speech, and thank you to the rapporteurs for their speeches. The vast majority of studies on the impact of development aid show that development aid has no long-term effect. The governments of the developing countries often use the aid received to increase expenditure on, among other things: arms purchases. The absurd consequence of Denmark's development aid is that development aid gives air to the public budget of the recipient countries to invest in less socially inefficient projects, including weapons. The Social Democratic Government and the Support Parties have in their so-called understanding paper a strategy for relations between Denmark and the developing countries. The government and the support parties believe that the Danes should not only in emergency situations, but always, shoulder a responsibility for the world. The government puts it up in the way that Denmark pr. the automatic disposal rate is 0.7 per cent. of aid to developing countries. In 2021, Danish tax-financed development assistance is expected to exceed 17 billion. kr., but Denmark is not going to give 17 billion. kr. Away; it's not for any good in the world. Muslim terrorist organizations in Palestine repeatedly attack Jews in Israel. Terrorists kill random people with bombs in marketplaces, with rockets from Gaza, with firearms and knives against civilians, or heavy cars are driven through the cows at bus stops. The Palestinians call these killers martyrs, but I call them terrorists. The Left in this Parliament believes that we should send more money in development aid to Palestine. The money is to be allocated indirectly to the leaders of the Palestinian Self-Government Council... leaders who every day call other Muslims to fight against the Jewish state because it is Jewish. In Denmark, a Palestinian terrorist, Omar el-Hussein, killed the young Jew Dan Uzan a few years ago. Dan Uzan was killed because he was Jewish. This kind of terror is also being committed in Western democracies such as Denmark, and the leaders of the Palestinian Self-Government Council should be rewarded, and for this they use, among other things. The aid from Denmark is worth more than DKK 100 million a year. The Palestinian Autonomy Council received a total of USD 693 million in support from abroad in 2017. 345 million US dollars have later been paid in subsidies and pensions to convicted terrorists and their families. This practice has led to considerable criticism from Members of the European Parliament. The Netherlands, Great Britain and Germany, which have for many years supported the Palestinian authorities financially, have demanded insight into what the donations are used for. The Netherlands also stopped allocating 1.5 million in 2019. Dollars a year for the Palestinian regime. Australia, Norway and the United States have also stopped or lowered their aid to the Palestinian regime. So let us follow their example here in Denmark. Denmark should stop completely with aid to the Palestinian Council of Self-Government. The Council of Self-Government salutes terrorists attacking Jews. The Council of Self-Government continues to pay off rewards and pensions to convicted terrorists and their families. The Danes do not have to pay taxes so that politicians can pass the money on to terrorists and their families. Denmark must not support terror and glorification of Palestinian terrorists with a single crown. So stop foreign aid to Palestine now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505185049	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505185054	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen used the expression that development aid should not be given for any purpose in the world. I'd like to ask you a little more about that. In other words, is it to be understood in the context that we could read in Haaretz on 22 April this year that the settlers had destroyed equipment intended to develop agriculture in the West Bank of the Palestinians? And what does Mr. Furthermore, Peter Seier Christensen says that Danish development aid in this sense can be said to be of no use to the world, if it is true that settlers in the West Bank are destroying Danish-supported development projects? Is that how it was supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505185133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505185138	It should be understood in this way that most of the studies carried out by development aid show that it has no long-term effect. And, of course, there should be no destruction of the things that Denmark sends out. But what I am referring to is that the studies mainly point to the fact that there is no long-term impact of foreign aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505185156	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505185157	No, it is true that our development aid will not have any long-term effect if the settlers in the West Bank destroy, among other things. a Danish-supported development project in relation to agriculture. So, an acceptance that it's not going anywhere, but it's because the settlers are smashing it. Or what does Mr. Peter Seier Christensen saw about the report by DanChurchAid, which says that Israel's military also destroys wells and water irrigation systems in the West Bank?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505185224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505185225	Yes, but what I am referring to with regard to foreign aid is that there is no long-term effect of it. It also applies to the various things that are being built, that you can see, if you look at the countries, that there is no long-term effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505185246	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505185249	I would like to know whether the rapporteur acknowledges the report by the Human Rights Watch, which concludes that the Palestinians are living in apartheid-like conditions and that their occupiers, the Israeli state, are committing crimes against humanity.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505185309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505185313	Now I haven't read the report, but I don't want to acknowledge it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505185317	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505185318	I simply did not hear the answer. Peter Seier Christensen I say that I have not read the report, but I do not want to acknowledge the allegations made by the rapporteur). Okay. Because there we have the whole, what can be said, the focal point of this very, very, I think, misplaced and wrong proposal. Because if you do not even bother or recognise that the occupying power of Israel is exercising state terrorism, as Human Rights Watch concluded just a week ago, it is hard to talk at all about how we are going to resolve this conflict and how we are going to help the Palestinians. After all, we have to recognise that there is a problem, we have to recognise that there is a challenge, because only then can it be solved. That would explain why this proposal has been put forward. I have no further questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505185409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505185410	Now the proposal is about Denmark paying money, which indirectly goes to support terrorists, and we think it is totally unacceptable that Danish tax dollars should go to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505185425	Thank you, sir. Peter Seier Christensen. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is over. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505185507	Someone's a little worried in the back. Can you go outside, or can you keep it down? Can the bourgeois club quietly so that we can hear what the rapporteur for the Socialist Group has to say in a moment, Mr President? Troels Ravn? It is a bill, so the Minister will be given the floor at the end. Is Mr. Troels Ravn on his way? I think we are going to take the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Kenneth Mikkelsen, first, and then I'll have Mr. Kenneth Mikkelsen. Troels Ravn the opportunity when he gets here. Welcome to sir. Kenneth Mikkelsen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505185603	Thank you for that, President, thank you for opening the debate here on Bill No. L 217. It should not be a secret that the Left is behind the ambitious goal of getting Denmark's first smoke-free generation, and it must be by 2030. We actually went to the polls on that ambition, and we already presented a proposal for a smoke-free future for Danish children and young people before the 2019 parliamentary elections. In the Left, we want to ensure that far fewer children and young people start smoking. We find it very worrying that more young people are starting to smoke. Four out of five smokers actually start before they reach the age of 18. That is why it is particularly important for us to make a massive effort to ensure that children and young people start smoking at all, because the sooner young people start, the greater the risk that they will end up as big smokers on a daily basis, and at the same time the research shows that an early smoking onset leads to major difficulties with a cessation of smoking. So from a health perspective, therefore, we support initiatives aimed at preventing children and young people from starting to smoke. It is so that in these years we see a great many tobacco and nicotine products seeing the light of day, yes, the degree of innovation has probably never been higher in that industry. And then the natural question arises: should they be taxed, and if so, what, and what principles should be applied? And what's more important? Is this the concern for citizens' health, or is it the concern for the Treasury? I understand that if people drop cigarettes in favour of something less harmful such as e-cigarettes, the Treasury may be a little concerned about their income. On the other hand, the Minister for Health should be happy. At any rate, this will not be the last time we in this House will be dealing with a proposal on taxes on new tobacco and nicotine products. Next thing you know, it's probably gonna be a charge on nicotine bags, I guess. That is why today's debate on duties on nicotine fluids will also be to some extent standardising in relation to the next time we impose taxes, the next time again and the next time again. In the Left, we always get worried when we see that this tax screw is just going to turn an extra round. The Ministry's estimate of revenue in this bill is about 50 million. kr. Every year, money that I expect the government in their own Finance Act. I would just like to say that it is important for the Left that any revenue from a tax on nicotine fluids should be used to lighten taxes or taxes elsewhere. Nicotine is addictive and it is harmful to health in all its forms and therefore it is important to find the right level of taxation. We are also concerned that children and young people who have started to steam with e-cigarettes become addicted to nicotine, and then the risk that they will start smoking later is considerably greater, and the risk of starting smoking cigarettes is greater if you have tried e-cigarettes than if you have not tried e-cigarettes. I believe that we should organise possible taxes on new products so that we always follow a principle of damage reduction and proportionality. The most unhealthy products should be taxed more heavily than the less unhealthy products, and it should always make economic sense for the individual to leave a very unhealthy and harmful product in favour of a less unhealthy and less harmful product. Any tax on e-cigarettes will always give rise to discussion. The counter argument against taxes on e-cigarettes is that e-cigarettes can be effective in tobacco detoxification or smoking reduction, and by taxing nicotine-containing liquids for e-cigarettes, fewer smokers may choose to switch to e-cigarettes and thus do not stop smoking. That discussion is there, and it will always be there, we acknowledge that, but I would also like to say that we in the Left have made a choice, because we will endeavour to limit children and young people's way into a smoking life to the limit. On the current basis, the Left has not yet finalized its position on the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505190045	Thank you, sir. Kenneth Mikkelsen. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505190057	Thank you. It's a little exciting what the Left votes. For it is the tax freeze that is important, or is it a smoke-free generation that is important. What I think is a bit strange in the line of argument from Kenneth Mikkelsen is that you say you want a smoke-free generation and then speak for this tax. But you write yourself in the bill, and I can try to read just one sentence. It says: "In addition, it is expected that the tax on nicotine-containing liquids will cause some of the consumption to change to other tobacco products. ▪ So, when you put taxes on e-liquids, people start smoking instead. I guess that's the other way that the Left would like to go. So if you want to do that and read the bill, I guess you have to vote no to this. I mean, with this tax, you get more smokers, and I guess that's not the end of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505190141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505190142	That is certainly not what we are aiming for, and that is, of course, one of the arguments for us to be unsolved at this stage in relation to how we end up voting on the draft law here. We believe that there are a number of unresolved issues which we will at least have to deal with in the further reading of the committee. Among other things: What the rapporteur says here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505190206	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505190207	Thank you for that answer. In the Danish People's Party we see it as such, a smoking rehab product, that is, that you can move from smoking cigarettes that are unhealthy to an e-cigarette that is less unhealthy, and there are actually English studies that show that these e-cigarettes are 95%. less harmful than cigarettes. So would the rapporteur not just agree or agree that it is actually better for young people to be moved from harmful cigarettes to e-cigarettes, and that it is perhaps a little crazy to think that now is the time for a tax on e-cigarettes, when it is actually a step out of smoking?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505190241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505190242	That was among other things. what I tried to point out in my rapporteur's speech, including this about proportionality, and that it should be the case that it should be worthwhile to move from a very unhealthy product to a less unhealthy product.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505190255	Thank you. I do not see any more brief remarks, so thank you, Mr President. Kenneth Mikkelsen. Then we are very happy to welcome Mr. Troels Ravn of the Social Democratic Party, who had to suffer the torment of becoming second on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505190313	Thank you for the floor, and apologize for this disorder, this delay. This bill translates part of the 2020 Finance Act by introducing a tax on e-cigarettes. Last year we raised tobacco taxes in order to improve public health and to ensure that fewer children and young people in particular start smoking. The increase in taxes may cause more people to turn towards tobacco-like products, including e-cigarettes. Therefore, a charge is proposed on nicotine-containing liquids introduced so that we avoid that special children and young people start using e-cigarettes. For liquids with low nicotine concentration, a rate of DKK 1.50 is proposed. per millilitres of liquid, while the charge for liquids with high nicotine concentration will be DKr 2.50. per milliliters. It provides incentives to produce smaller doses and for consumers to choose liquids with low nicotine concentration. We are also responding to the comments made in the hearings. In addition, a number of control measures are proposed, including: to prevent a situation similar to that which occurred in the wake of an increase in tobacco taxes, where tobacco sellers bought cigarettes at their stocks at the old price before the price increases entered into force. This situation will be prevented by stamp marks and a so-called clean market rule which bans the sale of nicotine fluids without stamp marks for 3 months after the tax has been introduced. At the same time, invoice and accounting requirements as well as fines will be tightened to ensure both that the price change is effective and that the tax is paid. It is important for the government that fewer children and young people start smoking. The draft law must be seen in conjunction with other initiatives in the tobacco sector aimed at curbing the smoking of children and young people in particular. This applies to the increase in the tobacco tax, the national action plan against children and young people's smoking, which several parties in the Folketing support, and the government's action plan on stricter requirements and strengthened control of tobacco trade. In addition, I note that the tax minister has also announced that the government is ready to set a ceiling on how many cigarettes there must be in a package. The Social Democrats naturally support the proposal, and I should like to welcome it from the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten and say that so do these parties. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505190545	There are a few brief comments. The first one's for sir. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505190550	The economy in this proposal shows a little why it is a bad idea, i.e. you get 10 million. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done in this area. kr. It is because there will be a great deal of illegal trade and a lot of border trade, but also because we are actually getting young people to switch to other tobacco products. Can the rapporteur himself not hear that it seems a bit crazy to argue that it should make people stop smoking, while at the same time just getting people to buy the same products illegally, or at border trade or buy real tobacco, in other words, contrary to what they want to achieve. Then you shouldn't look at it as a rehab product instead of bringing it here, which is something that actually makes people smoke?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505190636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505190637	There is no doubt that for the government this is an important initiative in terms of limiting the smoking of children and young people and starting with smoking. We also believe that, in the way we have put up the legislative proposal here, we are also trying to limit possible border trade. First of all, however, it is a matter of restricting, in the interests of public health, the smoking of children and young people; this, as I say, is also the result of our financial agreement and as part of the action plan that the government has put in place to reduce smoking among children and young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505190722	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505190724	I understand that the Socialists think it is important that people do not start smoking. But it is written in the bill itself that a large part of the proceeds simply disappears because there will be illegal trade and there will be border trade, but it is even more crazy that people move from an e-vaporizer into a cigarette product. Knowing now that an e-cigarette is 95%. less harmful than cigarettes, isn't it a little strange to introduce a legislative proposal that would actually move some people into ordinary smoking instead of allowing them to stay e-vaporizers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505190755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505190756	Yes, but when we look at it about cross-border trade, it is the case that for goods with EU-harmonised taxes, such as VAT, for example. tobacco and alcohol in the European Union are so-called indicative quantities for private imports of them, so this is not something that we can, as such, contain more than what we are actually doing. In other words, that tax is a national tax and it is therefore not possible to impose similar restrictions on imports of nicotine fluids by private individuals. So, in relation to EU legislation and to border trade, we are bound up. But this is about public health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505190834	Thank you. The chairman just got a little nervous, because all of a sudden there was Mrs. Inger Løvberg on the board here, and I couldn't see her at all. But at least now there are names of two who are present in the Chamber, so we take them, and the first is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505190850	We are. I have to say that the bill directly states that there are more people who want to be moved on to other tobacco products, in other words that more smokers and more people who use tobacco products are coming from this bill. It has nothing to do with EU harmonisation and everything else, but it is this bill that does it. Could the rapporteur not recognise that this draft law moves more people on to tobacco products? That's what they write directly in here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505190921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505190922	For the government, this bill is important in relation to a plan of action in which, overall, we are making a tax increase on cigarettes, and with this bill we are ensuring that the tax increase we are making on cigarettes does not bring more young people onto other nicotine-like products, i.e. e-cigarettes, etc. So with the bill here we must limit the fact that children and young people start smoking or, for that matter, also use other tobacco-like products.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505191003	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505191004	But the bill creates more people who start using tobacco products. That does not do what the rapporteur says. I quote: 'In addition, it is expected that the tax on nicotine-containing liquids will cause some of the consumption to change to other tobacco products'. So that is not what the rapporteur is saying. Will the rapporteur not recognise that the bill that the government and the Social Democrats are going to carry through now is creating more people who use tobacco products? That's what the Ministry itself says.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505191034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505191035	This bill is part of the Finance Act, and it is also part of a plan of action which aims to limit the use of smoking by children and young people. And in relation to the whole debate on border trade and the whole debate about smoking nicotine-like products, i.e. e-cigarettes, the health debate is also about not being able to say with certainty today whether e-cigarettes are healthier or less unhealthy than cigarette products are than smoking products are. But overall, the bill here is that we should limit the fact that children and young people start smoking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505191122	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505191125	I have some of those kids in my family, and I also know their buddies and so on, and it's not like they're going around e-vaporizing. At any rate, when there is a party, it is something about cigarettes, and it is something about snuff that they think they should enjoy, and I have not yet seen anyone walking around with such an e-cigarette, I have to say. That is why I think it is a little invented for the occasion to do this in order to prevent young people from starting to steam. The real effect of that is that people who smoke cigarettes today will not feel the same incentive to switch to a much milder product in the form of e-cigarettes because of this tax increase. And that's not very lucky.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505191218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505191219	So, as I also say in my rapporteur's speech, I think we have to conclude that the increase in the tax can cause more people to turn towards tobacco-like products, including e-cigarettes, and that is why we are proposing here a tax on nicotine-containing liquids to prevent children and young people from using e-cigarettes. After all, the overall plan for the whole area of smoking and for public health, as the government also proposes, is a different approach, a plan of action, that is to say, that, overall, we prevent children and young people from smoking or starting to use e-cigarettes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505191256	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505191257	Well, I've heard that sir. Troels Ravn says it there, but I just still have the benefit of meeting that young person who says: Now I'm going to start smoking, so I'm going to buy myself an e-cigarette set. Well, after all, it's a bigger expense than getting started buying some snuff or a cigarette. So I don't believe in that effect when it comes to young people. The effect I believe is that people who smoke cigarettes today are less likely to switch to e-cigarettes. And if it stands to believe that an e-cigarette is only harmful to the extent of one twentieth of smoking ordinary cigarettes, then that is not a good effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505191336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505191337	At least on the question of whether it is not better for tobacco smokers to switch to e-cigarettes, it can be said that, in relation to the Danish Health Authority, there are still no studies on health effects of long-term use of e-cigarettes. However, a study of e-liquids shows a content of chemical substances with harmful and potentially harmful health effects, and therefore there is considerable uncertainty as to the long-term impact of using e-cigarettes on health. Well, at least that's what's being said by the Health Service. But back to the proposal and the whole: what is the effort for the government, also with this proposal, is that, overall, in the long term, we avoid children and young people starting to smoke, and this has an impact on public health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505191422	Thank you, sir. Troels Ravn. There are no more brief comments. That is why I should like to welcome Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505191442	Thank you for the floor. I cannot help noticing that it is a little too bad when we have to have such a debate that a representative from the SF, from the Radical Left, from the Enhedslisten, from the Conservatives, from the Free Greens and from the Alternative is missing. I mean, it's hard to have a democratic debate in the Folketing if neither party shows up. And it shouldn't be a criticism of those who have shown up... it's not like that to yell at you guys who are here. But it is fun to see that it is actually parties that have quite a lot of seats, and then there are two parties sitting on three and four seats, respectively, who can show up. You may have time to sit and discuss in the Folketing, where other parties with a lot of seats cannot get together to come down and have a good democratic debate on this subject, which can be quite small in terms of revenue, i.e. in terms of money, but which is quite fundamental. We can also hear the debate now, that is to say that it does not make much sense with this tax that is being introduced. But that is often the case. Now it's a new tax. Now one thing has been found that has not been taxed in this country, and then, of course, there has to be a tax on it. And this has been agreed in the context of the Finance Act, of which we are fortunately not a part. Here it is liquids for e-cigarettes: so-called e-liquids, which then have to be taxed. Well, that's a little too bad, isn't it? In addition to that, there is also such a marking system on it, as there are on cigarettes, in order to counter illegal trade. And I understand that you are trying to avoid this, because you yourself are writing that there is a huge problem with this bill, that there will be cross-border trade and that there will be illegal trade, and that people will also be forced into ordinary tobacco products. And it's kind of weird that you want to. In fact, we see e-cigarettes as a rehab product, so that people who depend on smoking, who are obviously harmful, can switch to an e-vaporizer, which according to an English survey is not a Danish study, but an English study is 95%. less harmful than smoking a cigarette. So it must be far better for people to have an e-vaporizer on their way out of dependence on, among others. nicotine. There you choose to go the opposite way here. So I actually find it strange that a tax should be imposed on it. It makes sense to tax tobacco, but not on e-cigarettes, nor on cigarette paper. There is also a tax on that today. That is not what this is about; I know that. But it is not the cigarette paper that is harmful. I guess it's tobacco that's harmful. So it seems a little weird at all. Because the bill says it's $110 million. kr. immediate action. But in lasting effect, that is, when there have been some changes in behaviour and people start trading and acting illegally, there are only 50 million. kr. It is also expected that the tax on nicotine-containing liquids will give rise to a change in some of the consumption to other tobacco products. Well, it makes people walk away from being e-vaporizers and switch to smoking real cigarettes, even if it's 95 percent. In other words, the harmful effect of what you are trying to do here is precisely the opposite. So I fully agree with that, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen also said in connection with his question that it is probably more about just having some money in the box. It is probably more of a financing proposal than it is really about getting people to stop smoking, because it has the opposite effect. That's what you say honestly in this bill. So in the Danish People's Party we cannot support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505191755	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. There are no brief comments. Next on the list, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505191810	Thank you. Yeah, here we are again. The Danish treasure hell 2021. Just like you don't think you can come up with more things to tax, vupti, vupti, vupti, then there comes another thing. Now it's steam in e-cigarettes. It is said that smoking is harmful, so now we have to tax these e-cigarettes harder, but hoof, there is just a small problem, a tiny problem, because the bill says that it creates more smokers. I understand that there are no representatives of the SF and of the Radicals and the Conservatives who have been banners to get these taxes on cigarettes and have advocated that we should have fewer people who start smoking. Of course, there are fewer people who start smoking; the new figures show that there is too. But I understand that the SF, the Radicals and the Conservatives are not in the Chamber today, because then they would have to defend a proposal that creates more smokers, because this proposal does. Contrary to what the guidelines are, contrary to what is desired with regard to health in connection with the smoking law, this creates more, because there are more who want to use illegals, there are more who want to trade across the border and there are more who want to move from e-cigarettes to tobacco products. It shows, after all, that these punks about health are just another tool to get more money in the treasury and more power for politicians. We will never be able to support this in the new citizens, and that is why we will, of course, vote 'no'.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505191942	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no brief comments. And then we can welcome the tax minister to the platform. We have another rapporteur, but he was just hiding behind the ministerial chairs. I'm sorry. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance must also have an opportunity. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505192005	Thank you. We're not voting for the bill. We think it lacks any objective justification. We want people who smoke cigarettes to want to switch to e-cigarettes instead, because we are absolutely convinced that e-cigarettes are less harmful than ordinary cigarettes. In this debate we have mentioned the English figures which suggest that smoking ordinary cigarettes is 20 times as dangerous as smoking e-cigarettes, and I believe that this is a matter for believers. There are no particles in an e-cigarette that are only nicotine, so you don't get black lungs from smoking an e-cigarette. But what I really think is most important here is to talk a little about the government's justification, namely that you do not want young people to start smoking. Where do you find yourself if you think it's smart for young people to smoke e-cigarettes? E-cigarettes are a product used by people who would like to stop smoking but who have not yet succeeded. It's not a youth phenomenon with these e-cigarettes. Young people smoke ordinary cigarettes and they take snuff, and they do so to an extent that we may think is too much, but some of them experiment with it, and some others continue with it all their lives. It's not e-cigarettes that bring young people into these nicotine habits. The great advantage of e-cigarettes is that they give people who smoke cigarettes an opportunity to switch to a product that is less harmful, and for some who have an addiction to nicotine and to wear something to smoke, it is easier to switch to it than to stop smoking completely. And that is what we should want for those they have the opportunity to do. This tax helps prevent it, and so the tax here is going to harm health in Denmark, and that is why we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505192231	Thank you. There are no brief comments. And I apologise for overlooking the rapporteur. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505192249	Thank you for receiving the bill, which I am pleased that there is a majority in favour of • I am glad that there is a majority in the Danish Parliament that has participated in the many debates and stands by the many promises made to ensure that we in Denmark can get the consumption of smoke, whether it is tobacco or other, down so that we can have fewer children and young people who start smoking and who end up with the terrible side-effects caused by smoking. It is true, of course, that there are not so many rapporteurs present in this Chamber today, but, on the other hand, it can be said that those who have represented large parts of the bourgeois voice today, just as they have drawn a clear front. These are the ones who, in all respects, have opposed the initiatives that have been taken to combat the terrible consequences of smoke and tobacco. We are very happy to take this debate, and we can also take it here today with or without a full team, a full crew of people who have been involved in supporting initiatives in this area in the past. As I said, the bill introduces a tax on e-cigarette liquids. This has been agreed between the Government, the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, and this has happened in connection with the Finance Act, where we agreed that we are doing this because we, among other things, are doing this. will strengthen public health. Against this background, tobacco taxes have been increased in order to reduce the number of smokers, especially in relation to fewer children and young people having to start smoking. Higher tobacco taxes can lead to people moving towards tobacco-like products instead. As I said, this bill introduces a tax on nicotine fluids precisely to prevent higher tobacco taxes from leading to increased consumption of e-cigarettes. In addition, the tax also contributes to ensuring that fewer children and young people start smoking e-cigarettes. The draft law must therefore be seen in the context of the increase in tobacco taxes and the many other initiatives taken in the tobacco sector, in addition, across government shifts, including the adoption of a national action plan against smoking by children and young people, which, after all, has chosen to support a number of parliamentary parties. In addition to this plan of action, on which there is a broad consensus, the government has also presented a plan of action on stricter requirements and strengthened controls, which includes further measures on, among other things. the control of tobacco and the search for ways of introducing a tax on other nicotine products, e.g. nicotine bags. In addition, as has also been pointed out today, the government is planning to put forward a legislative proposal to regulate the pack sizes for cigarettes, so that in future there will be no packages of 40, 50 or 60 cigarettes, for example. The proposal we are making is about twenty-six packages, no more and no less. This proposal for a directive then proposes the introduction of a tax on nicotine fluids, and it is specifically proposed that the tax should consist of two rates which depend on the nicotine concentration, one rate of DKr 1.50. per millilitre liquid with a low nicotine concentration and a rate of DKK 2.50. per millilitres of liquid with a high nicotine concentration. The differentiated tax rates then reduce the incentive to dilute liquids with a high nicotine concentration and thus reduce part of the incentive to circumvent the tax. In addition, consumers are also encouraged to use nicotine fluids with a low concentration rather than those with a high concentration. There is no doubt that it is unfair to all the citizens and companies who pay the correct tax when someone tries to cheat, and therefore, as has been suggested before, it is a core priority for the government that Denmark has a strong and up-to-date tax administration. It must ensure that citizens and businesses pay the tax they have to pay, and that is why we are making a genuine reform of tax control, which involves the recruitment of as many as 1,000 additional new control officers. In order to ensure the best possible conditions for tax control of nicotine fluids by the tax administration, it is proposed to introduce stamp marks and tightened accounting and invoice requirements and tightened fines in conjunction with the other proposals in the legislative proposal. In addition, as the Social Democrat rapporteur rightly said, a so-called clean market rule is proposed which prohibits the sale of nicotine fluids without stamp marks three months after the introduction of the tax. And this clean market rule must help to ensure that the tax goes through in prices and that we avoid a situation in which, long after the tax has been introduced, nicotine fluids can be found without stamp marks and therefore without tax. Thank you for receiving the bill. This is just another step towards ensuring that we get something done about it in relation to the action plans and the intentions of the action plans that we agree on so that we need more people who opt out of smoking and fewer people who become addicted to smoking and thus avoid becoming the victims of the terrible consequences of smoking. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505192818	You're welcome. The first brief remark is from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505192824	Thank you. The Minister of Taxation says several times that you want to minimize the terrible consequences of smoking. Then I would just like to ask the Minister, in a very low-practical way, whether he can tell us what the consequences of an e-cigarette are and whether the Minister recognises that it is far better to smoke e-cigarettes rather than ordinary cigarettes with tobacco, because they can actually be a smoking rehab product. But what are the terrible consequences of an e-cigarette that makes it necessary to impose a tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505192855	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505192857	I believe that no matter how you turn it, it is not healthy for your body to consume nicotine, and there are many consequences of it. And that is, of course, the reason why the government chooses to do what it does. It is clear that there is a difference between different smoking products. It is obvious to everyone that there is a more direct danger to some than others. However, I think you can see that steaming nicotine is probably not the best thing for your health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505192932	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505192933	After all, there is a study that shows that it is 95 per cent. less harmful to use an e-cigarette than it is to use a tobacco cigar. Would it not be better if we could move the smokers from smoking tobacco to being e-vaporizers as a way to completely stop as the next step? It is written directly in the bill here that when you put a tax on e-cigarettes, that is to say on nicotine-containing liquids, it moves people into regulating tobacco consumption, that is to say the exact opposite of what the tax minister is saying is the goal; you get more people to keep smoking instead of quitting smoking. So, can you not see for yourself or just read in your own bill that it has exactly the opposite effect of what you stand and say on the platform?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193013	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193014	No, it certainly hasn't. After all, there are many different tobacco products, and it is not certain that they take the strongest of them. But it is true that taxes have a behavior-regulating effect, and that is also why the government has said that we are going to look at several of these products. So I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Left that we must do what we can to ensure that we achieve the goal of having the first generation of young people who are smoke-free. It also requires that we are ready to take action, and that is what we are doing. I think I have to say that what I have at least experienced in my relatively modest period as Minister of Taxation is that the creativity of the tobacco giants in this area is enormous. That is why we must take action where there is an opportunity to take action, and that is what we are doing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193058	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193100	Yes, taxes create behavior changes. But this tax is going to create a change in behaviour that we do not want, because we actually want people who find it difficult to stop smoking to go to e-cigarettes instead of continue on ordinary cigarettes. Then, with this bill, the government puts a tax on the e-cigarettes, which means that fewer people will go from their regular cigarettes to e-cigarettes. It's not a behavior we want. There is no doubt whatsoever that all the carcinogenic tar substances in ordinary cigarettes are not in e-cigarettes, so we prefer people to smoke e-cigarettes. Why, then, is the government trying to stop people changing from regular cigarettes to e-cigarettes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193150	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193151	Because behavior goes the other way too. It may well be that there was a great deal that thought that it could be very nice just to try it and thus get caught up in addiction. And the next step could be even stronger tobacco. That is why it is connected, and that is why we are doing what we are doing, namely imposing this tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193210	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193212	Well, I'm told that such a starter kit for an e-cigarette may cost 500 or 1,000 kroner. This is not something that young people are embarking on as their first smoking experience. What nonsense is it to stand and say? Then they'd rather buy a pack of cigarettes or something, what's it called, snuff. Surely it is not an entry product for young people to smoke buying an e-cigarette starter kit. That's a lot, much more expensive. It's just an argument that the government has made up that no team really has. The reality is that this is gonna prevent seasoned smokers from switching to e-cigarettes and that's a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193253	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193254	I have to say that those who are concerned about the extent of smoking in Danish society and those who are also medically concerned about it are nervous about the behaviour that comes if you start with e-cigarettes. That is why, of course, there is also a health aspect of this. The major interest groups which fight against smoking and fight against the effects of smoking are, after all, very aware that this can help prevent fewer people from becoming addicted to smoking. That is why this is a global effort, and that is why we are going to look at several initiatives, and we are doing so for the simple reason that if we want to achieve the objective that a broad majority in the Folketing has set itself, we will be looking at more products. And this, as I said before, is just one step in that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193347	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There are no brief comments or questions left. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I would suggest that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193406	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Troels Ravn of Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193417	Thank you for the floor. This bill is the second of two aimed at reducing smoking and, in particular, reducing the number of children and young people who start smoking. We must contain the harsh and distasteful behaviour that we saw in the wake of the increase in tobacco taxes, which was agreed by a broad majority in the Folketing. After a broad majority in the Folketing had decided to raise tobacco taxes by DKK 19. per Twenty, cigarette manufacturers started a price war and dumped tobacco prices. At the same time, tobacco dealers bought large quantities of cigarettes with the low tax before the tax increase entered into force on 1 April 2020. Unfortunately, it was not illegal but, on the other hand, gross and in direct contradiction with the intention of the agreement reached by a broad majority in the Folketing. Clearly, the intention has been to sell more cigarettes and make more dependent on carcinogenic smoke, in direct contrast to the objective of a democratically elected majority. It wasn't pretty to watch. I think it was quite shameful, and the result was that the increase in taxation adopted by the Folketing did not materialise on prices. This bill has to change that. The bill translates two of the proposals in the government's action plan on stricter requirements to strengthen control over the trade and storage of tobacco. This must be done by banning the sale of cigarettes and smoking tobacco with stamp marks with old taxes three months after a tax increase has entered into force. So after three months it will only be legal to sell cigarettes and smoking tobacco with the new stamp and the new tax. At the same time, control efforts are being strengthened to ensure that tobacco producers and traders comply with the rules. The draft law provides that the sale and storage of cigarettes and smoking tobacco with old stamp marks will be subject to fines 3 months and 4 months respectively after the tax increase has entered into force. Overall, the bill will help to ensure that tobacco prices reflect the tax increases adopted by the Folketing and not the cigarette manufacturers' attempts to circumvent them. I note that the tax minister has announced several measures in the tobacco sector in the autumn, so that we will get even more of a drop in the number of children and young people smoking. Social democracy supports the proposal and I should like to welcome from the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten and say that so do those parties. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193702	Thank you. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193704	It was simply because I noticed that the rapporteur said that it was very reprehensible that a lot of tobacco products were being hoarded before the tax increase came into force. And there is what is called the rule of hoarding where, on the occasion of the tax being raised, it was reduced from 20%. 5 per cent, and in the original draft of this bill, the government proposed that the hoarding rule should now be reduced from 5 per cent. In the case of tobacco products, there are two per cent, i.e. fewer tobacco products that could be hoarded than they normally were. But now the government has set out to abolish it altogether. Why do the Socialists suddenly not think there is a need for a rule of hoarding?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193745	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193746	What is the matter with this bill is quite simple: we must prevent children and young people from starting to smoke, and when we in Parliament make legislation by a large, broad political majority, it should not be possible, in this case, to circumvent what we have adopted in the Folketing. And that is why we are putting in place with this bill and strengthened controls and a legislative proposal that tobacco dealers and producers should, of course, comply with the rules and the intention that we have in our legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193822	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193823	But that is not an answer to my question. Because I'm asking why the hoarding rule has been removed. After all, it was one of the tools that was meant to ensure that there was no price war in it, and now the hoarding rule has been completely removed. Where it was 5 per cent in the past and where it was originally proposed for 2% before the hearing, there is no rule of hoarding anymore. Why is it that the hoarding rule has been completely removed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193845	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193846	Our intention with this bill is to ensure that tobacco prices reflect the tax increases that we adopt and not the cigarette manufacturers' attempts to circumvent it. And that's what we get with the bill here, so that's the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193906	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193908	Thank you. The rapporteur says that we must do everything we can to ensure that young people do not start smoking. Then the question is: why does the Social Democrats not want to ban smoking for children under the age of 18?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193920	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193921	We believe that with this bill we find a good balance and that with the action plan that the government has with the other measures to prevent children and young people from starting to smoke, we also reach shore in relation to those intentions. We do not have any thoughts on proposals outlined by the rapporteur here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193950	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505193951	No, what you have done with this is that you have made smoking more expensive for adults and especially those in the low-income group. Smoking has now become more expensive. But the rich people, who have plenty of money, do not notice the tax increases and they keep smoking, and the young people then buy the cigarettes, the Polish cigarettes, from the Toyota Corolla, which holds onto the corner next to the school. Because they can't afford to buy them, and then they buy them illegal instead. That's what's gonna be the result of these things, and you've just made it more expensive for everyone to smoke. So it gets a little hollow when you say they shouldn't smoke, but you don't want to do what you could do. You could just ban it. But why not?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505194028	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505194029	I note that the rapporteur from New Citizens often has some very easy, easy solutions to large, complex issues. We're gonna make a tax increase of $19. So with the bill here we are taking a big, important step in meeting the fact that children and young people should not start smoking and that we are restricting smoking tobacco in Denmark for the sake of public health, and at the same time it is also socially balanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505194135	Thank you. There are no more comments, so we go to the rapporteur, and that is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505194150	Thank you for the floor. In the Left, we went to the elections on higher tobacco taxes because we have an ambition to have a smoke-free generation by 2030, and we also carried out this increase in the tobacco tax on which we had voted, with effect from 2020. But it just didn't work out quite as planned, because it turned out that there were some who had hoarded so many cigarettes at an old price that you didn't compete on who produced the most efficiently and who was best at marketing, no, you competed on who could pay the lowest tax, and that's not the way we prefer competition. We must compete on equal terms and not at tax level. So we have been very concerned about that. Unfortunately, however, the government did not stop it and this meant that part 2 of the tobacco market war started, when, in order to maintain its market share, a tobacco producer felt obliged to cover the costs of the increase and ask for stamp marks below the tax price. They were also issued by the Danish Tax Office, after which it was found that it was not actually legal, and it is of course extremely regrettable and a mess to end up in, and it is clear that a significant price increase will have an effect on the market, but therefore it is also important that there are proper safeguards and that there is proper control. The government struck here after the latest part of this price war and came up with a plan of action with seven elements, and today it is some of the elements that are being implemented, and one of them is this clear deadline, which we in the Left agree with, because we found it very problematic to compete at different rates of taxation. But what surprises us is that we are completely removing the safeguard rule, which is about hoarding, that is to say what I also asked the rapporteur from the Socialist Group, that is to say this rule, which is about you buying goods up to the rise in taxes, so you have to a certain level more than usual. It used to be 20% before the tax increase, up to the tax increase it was 5%, and in the bill that came into consultation it was 2%, and now it is removed. I simply do not understand why this rule is being removed because it will put extra pressure on and give rise to an extra price war to bring this into force, and we find that very problematic. So in the Left, we are positive about creating better safeguards, and we hope that this will mean that we will not have a tax competition, but real competition on the market, and we can support that. But we are rather concerned that this safeguard rule on hoarding has been removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505194436	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505194453	As with the previous legislative proposal, I would like to start by saying that I again find it a pity that there are virtually no parties in the Parliamentary Assembly to debate these matters. A representative from Radical, from SF, from Enhedslisten, from the Conservative People's Party is still missing, plus some of the very small parties. It is a pity that, in a democratic assembly such as this one, we cannot pull ourselves together to send down just one representative who can defend the party's position and to whom we have the opportunity to ask questions, so that we can find out what we think about it. But, of course, it should not be a scold to those who are. After all, we must take the debate with each other. The background to this proposal has already been mentioned by the previous rapporteurs, but it is, of course, that a number of parties have chosen to increase the tax on cigarettes quite considerably. It was an agreement that the Danish People's Party did not participate in, so we have not been involved in creating the problems, but we can already reveal that we can see that we can, after all, help solve some of them and what it has brought about. There has been the obvious problem that there has been a huge difference between how many of these stamps companies have been able to hoard. This has meant that some have run out quite quickly and some had them for a very long time, and suddenly it was the tax difference that made there a huge difference in the conditions of competition and started to move on to the market. It is quite natural that it is suddenly such a thing that you move large market shares and large sums of money between the different companies. So this is a real issue that we would like to help solve. But that is actually logical when you make such large increases in a tax that it will then give some slump in a market and it will naturally have some violent consequences. After all, it takes time before it gets a normal rent, and that rent then just means forward-looking that you get a lot of illegal trade. There's gonna be a billion. kr. In the border trade because of these cigarette price increases, it is a little too bad, because after all it is money that is not being spent in Danish shops. In addition, it is extremely inequitable. Less Now you get more Well, but I'll say opposite Left, we can actually see the sense of removing this safeguard rule because you introduce what you call a clean cut. You actually use an English expression in the bill called clean cut. I really think it is a little strange why we should have English terms in Danish legislation. Why not just call it a clean cut? I think the Danes can figure that out. Why does there have to be a clean cut? Maybe the tax minister can bring that back if he's not busy talking to his colleague...
ParlaMint-DK_20210505194724	I must also ask that, when there is a rapporteur, the ministers concentrate on the transferer. It's pretty bad and uneducated that you don't listen to what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505194732	There are not many rapporteurs either, so there are not so many people to listen to, so we should be able to do the job today. But the hoarding rule really makes sense to me because you make this clean cut, because if you still had the hoarding rule, it might be that you were in the same problem: that some might run out of stamp marks after one month and others after two months, and some might have piston marks for the whole 3-month period. After all, we are now giving clean, equal conditions because everyone can stick to the old price for 3 months. So there's no more of this rule. In any case, I think that is a cleaner cut, as is the intention of the proposal. But let us go into this in the committee work. It may be that there are some things I have overlooked in it, but as I said, we have not been involved in creating the problem, but want to help solve it, so we in the Danish People's Party can therefore support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505194812	Thank you. Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505194816	In the bill that came into consultation, there was both this clean cut-date and a hoarding rule to prevent it being too violent up to that date. So that's why it wasn't a either-or. It is also just because I understand that the rapporteur has a view that it was an either-or. That is not my view; my view was that it was both, and I do not know whether it affects the rapporteur's view of the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505194848	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505194849	I cannot answer why it has been chosen to be removed. The Minister may be able to clarify this when he comes to the floor later, but I can at least understand from the logic I see in the draft law why it has been chosen to remove it, because I do not see the need for it either when you make this clean cut after three months. Then you have time to get rid of your excess stamp tags with the old tax. There you have one more month, so I find it difficult to see the need to have both systems, but it is true that that does not exclude the other, but if there is no need for it, then there is no need to have it. But let us get the tax minister to explain why the bill has been put forward, where both were really included at the beginning, but chose to remove one of them. I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505194925	Thank you, President. Let's move on. There are not many rapporteurs. SF? No. Radical Left? No. Enhedslisten? No. Conservatives? No. Well, we'll actually get to Mr. Knox. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505194948	Thank you, President. We have the world's highest tax burden in Denmark, and now we want to raise taxes on cigarettes. We voted against this, because those taxes are absolutely high enough and, now that these taxes are introduced, they affect those in society who have the least. And in this way, I understand that parties like SF and Enhedslisten are not here today. After all, we must stand by and defend the introduction of taxes which create more inequality in society and which harm those who have the least already. It may sound good when they say it in the media, but in here it counts when you press the button and that's what they do with this. So this proposal is about what taxes were on when you did this cut. And it has to be said that such companies are like the citizens; they have become world champions in acting inside this tax hell that we have in Denmark, and then they try to organize it so that they get the most out of it. There, of course, we have a job to do to ensure that it does not get completely out of hand, and perhaps there is something that might suggest that it might have done so this time. We have some questions about the specific proposal, about what it means when you make the three-month cut versus the stocks that these cigarette companies normally have; there must also be reasonableness in the fact that there is the right balance in it. These are the issues that we want for the committee procedure on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505195131	Thank you. There are no comments. I think I saw sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Yes, I did. Here you go, Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505195145	The red majority and also some other parties helped to raise the taxes on cigarettes. We have been opposed to this right from the start. We believe that there should be taxes on cigarettes to the extent that they cover the additional costs of health care to treat tobacco-related diseases, but, in addition to that, we believe that this is a pedigree in which we want to determine how other people should live their lives. We all have our vices. Some sit too much on the couch and see Netflix, others drink too much red wine, and others again eat too many chips. It can all be unhealthy if it is done to an extent that is too much, but if you stick to a normal level where it is not too much, then it can just be a recreation in life and a little reward you give yourself sometimes. It is the same with cigarettes, and therefore there must be a tax that covers the costs to society of smoking, but there must not be the patronage where people should not have that cargo, that people should have only the vices that the fine people have, but not the vices that the less fine people have. That is why we will not help the government to collect the increased taxes as soon as possible. What this bill is about is the fact that those companies which make use of the legal option to pay some taxes early and then put them on cigarettes when you want to sell them should not have that option. It is a legislative proposal that helps the majority to collect the higher taxes earlier than they could otherwise, and since we are against the higher taxes, we will not provide that help. We shall vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505195349	Thank you. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505195400	Thank you for that, and thank you for the support for the bill, which, after all, translates two of seven initiatives from the government's action plan on stricter requirements to strengthen controls on the trade and storage of tobacco, specifically the initiative to restrict tobacco sales with old stamp marks and the initiative to impose fines on the sale of tobacco products with old stamp marks. The bill must be seen in the context of the tobacco tax increases agreed by the government, together with a broad majority of the Danish Parliament's parties, in the context of the 2020 Finance Act. In this context, it was agreed that the tax increases would be carried out in two stages and that the price of a package of 20 cigarettes would rise significantly by a total of DKK 19. The reason, then, is that both the government and the majority behind it want particularly fewer children and young people to start smoking and suffer the terrible consequences of smoking. The legislative proposal also stems from the fact that, in the context of the first tax increase in 2020, cigarette manufacturers began what can safely be called a price war and dumped tobacco prices so much that they simply lost money on their sales of cigarettes. Very large stocks of cigarettes with old stamp marks are also being built up by wholesalers and retailers with the low tax from before 1 April 2020. Neither has been illegal, but it is no secret that I find that it was both gross, but also directly unsavory, when the intention of the law was exactly the opposite and so was not respected. It is distasteful because the aim is certainly to sell more cigarettes and thus create a greater dependence on smoking, with the unfortunate effect that more people will become dependent on it and even more will die from cancer as a result of smoking. The result is that the tax increases adopted by a broad majority in the Folketing have not been achieved in prices, as was intended and should be expected. This proposal must then ensure that the purpose of the legislation adopted in the Folketing is also achieved as it should. The draft law proposes that the requirements for tobacco trade should be tightened up so that the agreed tax increases on tobacco, on which we agree, can be implemented more quickly. In concrete terms, it is proposed to introduce a ban on the sale of cigarettes and smoking tobacco with old stamp marks, which means that an old tax has been paid three months after a tax increase has entered into force. This will therefore be what has previously been mentioned in the debate here, i.e. a so-called clean market rule, which will enter into force after three months. At the same time, the existing rules on hoarding are being repealed. That is also what the rapporteur asked of the Left as they will be made redundant by the ban on sales after 3 months, as they may, if they wish, distort competition between producers following recent changes in producers' market shares. It is also proposed that the control of tobacco trade should be strengthened to ensure that tobacco producers and traders comply with the rules. Specifically, we propose to impose a fine on wholesalers and retailers for the sale and storage of cigarettes and smoking tobacco with old stamp marks, after 3 and 4 months respectively from the entry into force of a tax increase. In conclusion, I think it is worth emphasising that the behaviour we have seen and the behaviour we have seen from tobacco giants and tobacco producers are in many ways totally unacceptable. It has one purpose and that is to create more dependence on tobacco. This is contrary to the action plans adopted by the broad majority of the Folketing and on which this bill also stands. With this, I hope that we can find constant broad support for this, but also for the general effort, to ensure that we can achieve our goal that even fewer people should start smoking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505195829	Thank you. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505195832	Thank you. I think it is very good to have this purely cut date, which I think it should be called in Danish on 1 April, but I am surprised that the rule of hoarding has been removed, i.e. the rule that used to be 5 per cent, the last time the tax went up and which in the first draft of this bill was 2 per cent. Why has the government gone completely away from a hoarding rule?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505195856	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505195858	Actually, that's what I was just reading. I can read it again: at the same time, the existing rules on hoarding are being repealed, as they will be rendered superfluous by the ban on sales after three months. It is actually very simple, and therefore it is not so much longer. It is a new situation that we have faced with price dumping, lots of cigarettes on the market, but they are no longer there, and therefore there is no need to have the protection that we are introducing now, the clean market rule, which I hope the Left supports, and it then solves the problem that could have been there if we had not had the price war that we have seen, where really thousands of cigarettes were pumped into the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505195936	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505195937	I have said that we in the Left are in favour of creating more safeguards, but I am just wondering, because in the first draft law there was both a cut-off date and a hoarding rule. Is it, then, because the government has become wiser during the consultation period and has found that if you have a clean cut date, you do not also need a hoarding rule? Is it the hearing that has made the government wiser? Why does the government suddenly not think it is necessary to have both rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505195959	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505200000	I will read it again: at the same time, the existing rules on hoarding will be repealed, as they will be made redundant by the ban on sales after three months. Why? Because the situation is that the tobacco giants unfortunately chose to circumvent the legislation we have adopted in the Folketing, in other words simply to pump cheap cigarettes onto the market. So they are no longer there and therefore there is no need for the rule of hoarding, and it is then dealt with in the future by the rule of the three months. But if the Left wants to tighten it further, I do not think it will be a problem to find a majority in the Folketing for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505200035	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Taxation and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505200054	The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Jensen, Social Democratic Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505200102	The draft law on the construction of Lynetteholm follows from the principle agreement of 5 October 2018 between the State and the City of Copenhagen on the establishment of a new peninsula in the harbour of Copenhagen. It is an agreement to which a broad majority of Copenhagen's citizens' representation of Social Democracy, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the SF, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance have joined. From the political agreement it follows, among other things, that an environmental study of the installation of Lynetteholmen was to be carried out, on the basis of this study, proposals were to be made for a construction law, and the development company By & Havn I/S and their advisers have carried out environmental studies on the construction of Lynetteholm, in accordance with the political agreement, and the environmental studies have been carried out in close dialogue with the authorities, including the Danish Environmental Protection Agency and the Danish Traffic Protection Agency. Environmental studies are the basis of the plant law proposal we are discussing here today. The bill empowers the development company City & Port I/S, among others. To build the Lynetteholm peninsula of 2.8 km 2 and, overall, there are two phases in the project, on the one hand, a construction phase in which an access road is established and, on the other hand, the perimeter, i.e. the new semi-loose perimeter, in the form of spuns and dams, on the other hand, an operating phase in which surplus land is filled in the established perimeter. The construction phase is expected to take approx. 21⁄2 years and the operational phase is expected to last for approx. 30 years. Why build a new peninsula, Lynetteholm, in the harbour of Copenhagen, could you ask yourself? Well, the construction of Lynetteholmen meets two main objectives, which at the same time can help solve a number of challenges in the capital. Firstly, a new site for landfilling surplus land from construction projects will be established and Lynetteholmen will replace the depot in Nordhavn, which is soon to be filled up. Secondly, the peninsula will form part of the climate protection of Copenhagen against the storm tide from the north. Although this is a major project, the taxpayer will not be able to finance the project through revenue from the landfill of surplus land from construction projects in the Copenhagen area. Parliament, with the adoption of this bill, will at the same time give environmental approval to the project. The project could be carried out in such a way that the effects on the environment are kept within the framework of the environmental assessments carried out and it will be primarily the responsibility of the development company City & Port I/S to ensure that the project is implemented in accordance with the framework laid down by the Construction Act and the environmental assessments carried out. In addition, ongoing monitoring will be carried out to ensure that the development company By & Port I/S complies with all requirements along the way. The purpose of the fact that we in the Folketing adopt the large and complex projects by means of a construction law is to provide an overall legal basis for the implementation of the project. By law, the developer obtains an overall environmental and construction permit rather than having to obtain a wide range of different administrative permits from different authorities. The draft law therefore proposes to derogate from a number of rules in the field of environmental and environmental legislation; it helps to make the planning of the large construction project robust, without compromising the quality of environmental studies or environmental requirements. When we adopt the major construction projects by a construction law, it also means that the projects will have a solid political foundation, for which we in Denmark have a long tradition, and with this we have provided a robust basis for large projects such as the Fehmarn Belt connection and the new Storstrøm Bridge, and this is the same model we are now using here for Lynetteholmen. As far as the future application of Lynetteholm is concerned, this bill is about the new semi-detached function of land landfill and coastal protection. But it is clear that the island also has great potential in relation to the further development of Copenhagen, and in the long term Lynetteholmen may help to ensure that Copenhagen becomes a city where ordinary people can afford to live, because one can build cheaper if one chooses it, and in this way Copenhagen should no longer be a city only for people who have really taken a overall view, it is therefore a project that solves a number of major challenges for the capital and which therefore Social Democracy can support. And I should like to welcome the esteemed transport rapporteur of the Radical Left and say that the party also supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505200534	Thank you. There are some brief comments. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505200538	I think it would have been appropriate for the Radicals to be on target for this project when the Minister of Transport came to the Chamber. If it's such a great idea to load 80 million. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505200612	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505200613	The principle agreement has been concluded back in 2018. So there's been a long time to discuss this. There has also been a consultation phase, and now we have three readings of the law here in the Danish Parliament, where we can discuss it well and thoroughly, including in the Danish Parliament's Transport Committee. So there is ample opportunity to have a good debate on it, so I do not think there is any reason to point the finger at the process. But we look forward to a good legal treatment here in the Folketing, and then we can have the debate with those who want to take it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505200643	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505200644	There hasn't been anything special. Compared to the fact that this project costs 80 billion. kr. And it goes on for 30 years, after all, it is minimal what has been of discussion. There has been one political meeting on TV 2/Lorry. I would like to ask you, because of all the negative consultation answers that have been given, why not discuss this properly? What will the rapporteur say to all the Copenhageners, through whose streets 700 lorries are to be driven a day for 30 years? How are the buildings supposed to stick to that? What about the particle contamination? What about CO2 What about the quality of life people miss? What about all the kids who are gonna grow up all their childhoods with giant trucks full of dirt as a backdrop?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505200732	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505200733	What I do not think the rapporteur of the alternative has been aware of is that this is helping to solve a specific problem where there is some land to be dug up. If you have to build a school, you have to build a nursing home, you have to build new homes somewhere in Copenhagen, and there is often some surplus land. And that's where Lynetteholm serves as a deposit for this surplus land. What the alternative could then tell the Copenhageners was where the alternative would run that land. Should it be driven around the suburbs and outside the city, so many more kilometers with lots of CO2 is that what the alternative wants? Because then I just think you should go out and say it openly and honestly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505200811	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505200815	Thank you. Professor of Environmental Law Ellen Margrethe Basse says in connection with the additional consultation that has been made on the vvm statement in Politiken on 17 April this year that: "The EIA Directive has still not been complied with, because it still works on the basis of a division where you examine Lynetteholmen bite for bite, but do not look at the overall project. You could say that's pretty clear from the professor. Does the rapporteur not think that it might be appropriate to clarify whether Lynetteholm is in breach of the VVM Directive before the project might start this year?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505200851	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505200852	The government does not make a bill if it violates the vvm law. I also believe that the notified professor has crawled equally far into the ivory tower, because the concrete project that lies here is about making a perimeter and building roads there so that we can fill surplus land in. That's what the project is. Nothing's tucked in here. There's nothing ripped up after a salami method. It's a nonsense. This is a concrete project. We can relate to this construction law today here in the Folketing. And it is a project that, in addition to solving the challenge of getting a deposit to some land that still needs to be driven somewhere else if it is not to be driven to Lynetteholm. At the same time, it is also a matter of ensuring that we get a storm protection from the harbour of Copenhagen from the north. These are two important and good measures, and nothing has been put under the carpet here, compared to some projects that have been ripped off here. This is the specific project we're discussing in this construction law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505200958	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505201001	Frankly, I do not think that there are any Danes who believe that Lynetteholm should only be a land depot. And, as the rapporteur himself said, the agreement in principle also says, on page 4: "Parallet with the EIA study on the installation of Lynetteholmen, the parties agree to carry out the following studies with a view to the subsequent submission of road link, metro service and the relocation of the sewage treatment plant Lynetten. So can the rapporteur please explain to me how it can be nothing other than in connection with Lynetteholm and that, therefore, the VVM directive requires an overall environmental assessment?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505201041	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505201042	After all, none of these projects are yet concrete. Of course, if you choose to build Lynetteholm, it would be a good idea to find some good transport options out there. Whether it is with a metro, a bicycle, a car or a combination, a good debate must be held in Copenhagen so that citizens can also be involved in the debate on the future development of Copenhagen. So what we are dealing with today is the concrete construction law in terms of building a place where we can land some land and where we can help to protect the coast of Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505201116	Thank you for that, and then it is Mrs Susanne Zimmer, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505201118	Thank you. I think that the landfill of land fills a lot in the argument that this should be a good solution. Has an analysis been made of how to get rid of the soil without a new Lynetteholm being established? That was one thing, and the other is: is the rapporteur sure that this land is clean? After all, we are very concerned that soil must be cleaned before it has to go anywhere and people pay to have it deposited. So couldn't it be that this land isn't clean at all, so there's going to be a huge extra bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505201154	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505201155	We cannot know at this stage whether future construction projects, either in Copenhagen's South Harbour or at Østerbro in Copenhagen, will be on land where there is clean soil or whether there is any contaminated soil, but we must analyse this in the specific project, and then we must also decide what to do about the land • whether it is a land that can be driven to landfill on Lynetteholmen or what it is. So we can't guarantee that now. It is a project that will run over 30 years, and therefore I am sure that the environmental authorities will also have to keep a leash in this, so that the land placed on Lynetteholmen is placed in a sound way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505201233	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505201234	When the rapporteur says that there may be deponi, I think it must mean that it is soil that is at least not pure and that is perhaps toxic. I would like to hear exactly what the rapporteur means by that. Something else is that when there is talk of coastal protection, does the rapporteur not think that there are other options to make coastal protection than to create a Lynetteholm and perhaps even opportunities that are much better?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505201302	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505201303	When I talk about deponi, it is because we have a practical problem in our capital. Fortunately, the capital is a place that over the last 30 years has developed incredibly much. There will be investment, there will be construction, and when there will be a surplus of land. Then it's not because it's contaminated soil everywhere. In some places it may happen that it is contaminated soil. I shall not be able to rule that out at all, but then the environmental authorities will have to look at it. Otherwise, it is generally the case that there is surplus land that has to be placed somewhere, and then Lynetteholmen is with the short path for me to see, also in relation to a CO2 At the same time we get some urban development in our capital, and we get some storm flood protection. Whether or not there are other projects that could be better at stormproofing, we need to clarify in the committee process. I'm sure the Minister of Transport can answer that. But it seems to me that it is a good double solution that we both deposit some land and at the same time floodproof.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505201405	Thank you. Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505201407	Thank you. I have to say that the rapporteur's wording on Mrs Ellen Margrethe Basse's criticism of this project is perhaps just sharp enough for SF's taste. I must then admit that in the SF there are other parts of her criticism that we think are much more serious than just this discussion that has taken place. But I would like to ask the rapporteur whether there will be just as many transports of land in Copenhagen if we do not build Lynetteholmen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505201450	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505201451	No, I do not think that building activity in Copenhagen will fall if you fail to build Lynetteholmen. If the municipality decides to build a new primary school or a new nursing home or there are some private investors who go in and build some new, lovely homes for the Copenhageners, so that there is room for all the people who move to the capital in these years, then I just think it is positive. So I really don't think that building activity will stop if you don't do Lynetteholmen. That is why I think it is good and forward-looking that a broad majority, including the author's own party in Copenhagen's citizens' representation, supports this proposal. When it is built in Copenhagen, the ground must be driven somewhere and put in a hole, and at the same time you have disposed of the land and made an island that you can use for something good in the future, as you decide, in Copenhagen, you will also get storm-proof Copenhagen from the north. I think that is actually a really, really wise decision, plus that you also save some money, because you do not have to spend money solely on storm-proof Copenhagen from the north.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505201553	Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505201554	Thank you for your answer. Whether SF supports this particular bill, we must look at the committee procedure and the answer to the questions, but it is true that SF is part of the agreement of principle, because we really think that Lynetteholmen is a good idea. But I see the rapporteur's answer as saying that there will actually be the same amount of land to be transported in Copenhagen, regardless of whether you build Lynetteholmen or not. Then I'd like to hear something else. Because you have put a fine legal basis into the bill, which allows the City of Copenhagen to interfere quite a lot in how these land transports are supposed to run. Can the rapporteur say a few words about the City of Copenhagen, for example? can ensure that transport runs a little less concentrated on the main lines and at certain times, which will make it a little more tolerable for citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505201638	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505201639	I'd like to arrest something in the question. I do not want to be taken as an income for the same land transport in Copenhagen, regardless of whether Lynetteholmen is built or not. In fact, I believe that there will be more ground transport on the Copenhagen roads if you do not build Lynetteholmen, because then you will have to drive further somewhere else and deduce CO2 Compared to whether there are other roads you can drive, I would say that I noticed that it has come into the bill that it is possible to sail land there with barges. I think that makes sense. If that barge could be battery-powered, I think it's good for the environment and the climate too. So I think it's gotten some good moves into this bill, for example. That if it's any land that comes a little far away, then it can be sailed in with barge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505201731	There will then be no further brief comments, and the next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505201759	Thank you for that, President. The bill here is about establishing Lynetteholmen. It is a very visionary project: a new peninsula by our capital of 2.8 km2. This is not the first time that new islands and peninsulas have been built here in Copenhagen to ensure the possibility of continued development and expansion of the capital. The advantage is that we sort out a number of challenges at once. Firstly, there will be the basis for a whole new district, as if some decades could grow up on Lynetteholmen. Secondly, there will be the possibility of depositing the surplus land around a capital. In a capital there is a certain amount of construction activity and therefore there will always be surplus land, which should preferably be deposited close to it, so that we do not have to transport it over very long distances. That's what you can use for this stuffing. In addition, we have climate protection, which is a challenge we have to deal with around Denmark, not only in the capital, but also here. And it's also a challenge that this project solves. So all in all, the Left thinks that this is a visionary agreement that was concluded between the state and the City of Copenhagen back in 2018, and that is the agreement that we are following up with the bill here. It is clear that when there is such a large construction project as here, there is also a reverse of the medal. It can't be different. And then we have to recognise that there will be quite a lot of traffic through Copenhagen with many trucks. I heard that 700 was mentioned. As far as I can read from the comments on the draft law, it is 350 which, however, drives both roads, but it is still only 350 a day away. That's a lot of people, too. But there we have to keep it together with the fact that there is already a great deal of traffic with surplus land in the capital, and that is just another place to go. I also understand that there is an opportunity to mitigate the burden it will be. It has been mentioned that you can sail it out on barges. I think that is an exciting alternative if any of it can be done that way. You can also go in and determine the route choice and other conditions, so that the load is minimized, and you have to do so for sure. I have also noted that there are some who are concerned about the access conditions to the port, in relation to whether they are now deteriorating. I think that is also worth looking at in committee. As far as I can understand the bill, it is still possible to sail away, including to Christianshavn and elsewhere. But, of course, this is something that we must take seriously and we must ensure that no problem arises in this respect. One of our concerns from the Left is that there will be a transport service by Lynetteholmen. We consider it certain that there will be quite a strong housing area out there. It is one of the ideas that we get some more homes in Copenhagen for quite ordinary people who quite ordinary people can afford to pay. After all, it is one of the ideas that we are increasing the supply of housing in Copenhagen, so that prices do not just go skyrocketing. And this means that we need a transport service, and this applies to a tunnel/eastern ring road around Copenhagen, which we still have to make in order to relieve the city centre of a significant part of car traffic. This also applies, of course, to a metro line. When you get it so densely populated there is a basis for high-class public transport. We do not decide on this with this bill, but we look forward to taking a decision on this with a follow-up to a traffic agreement and then a legislative proposal. So all in all, the Left supports this proposal. We are well aware that there are some drawbacks. We can see that the project has been studied very thoroughly, including environmentally, and we need to do so in such large projects. And we can also see that much has been done to mitigate the negative consequences of the legislative proposal. With these words, the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505202222	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505202226	Thank you. The rapporteur says that there are a number of reverses to the medal, and I can quickly agree with the rapporteur on that. But last week, I believe, we discussed a motion for a resolution from the Left on a national strategy for raw materials, and the rapporteur made a great deal of effort to make sustainable use of our raw materials. Lynetteholm is not just a land dump; virgin raw materials must also be used for it. According to the Capital Region, at least 4 million will be needed. m3 sand from Kriegers Flak and 170,000 m3 sand and rat. The sand corresponds to approx. 50% of the annual consumption of raw materials in the Capital Region. In other words, there is less availability of raw materials for other construction projects, which I know the rapporteur would very much like. Does the rapporteur think that this is the right way to use virgin raw materials?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505202324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505202324-2	Hopefully we can now also use a lot of recycled raw materials so that we do not only need virgin raw materials. But that reinforces the argument for a national raw material plan. When we have some construction projects like this, where we know that there will be a move on raw materials, and we also have some other construction projects, it must, of course, be included in a national raw materials strategy. And since there is a large political majority both here in the local area of Copenhagen, but also here in the Danish Parliament, who wants to promote this project, we need raw materials. Well, we are, of course, concerned that there can continue to be developments around our country, including in the capital. That is why we fully support the fact that there is a consumption of raw materials here, and the demand for raw materials must of course be included in planning, a national raw materials plan, and we will of course call for the use here of as much recycled raw materials as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505202423	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505202424	I do not think anyone is opposed to development. The question is: what is it going to be for a development? Well, I'd like to make another point: it's 50%. of the annual consumption of sand in the Capital Region, which is expected to be used on Lynetteholm. But another question I would like an answer to is whether the rapporteur is not at all concerned that this will actually make raw materials prices more expensive. For one can say that when so much sand and so much gravel and rattan are to be used on Lynetteholm, then it will push prices at least if you ask the Capital Region.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505202501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505202502	Yes, everything else equal; there is a connection. That is supply and demand, and I am glad that Enhedslisten is also aware of this, although it is part of the liberal ideology. Supply and demand are linked, so it may well be that raw materials are becoming a little more expensive by increasing demand, and that is also why it is important that we ensure the supply of raw materials by means of a national raw materials plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505202526	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505202528	Thank you. I think it suits the Left rapporteur to be honest about things. Instead of just making it sound like some sort of land plot is going to be made, which is going to be used for something sometime or other, the rapporteur at least admits that there are plans to build on it. The rapporteur also admits that there will be major nuisances in Copenhagen with all those trucks. But since it is only a land plot, as the Socialists say, why should 30% be obtained? of the land outside Copenhagen? Why should it be dug up and driven into Copenhagen for example.? Why should all the sand that Enhedslisten is talking about be driven in there? And what about all the land that comes from the excavations that are to be associated with the Lynetteholm projects? It's got to go out there, too. How can there be an argument with the fact that all this land needs to be driven around in advance? Why, then, should land be provided from the outside?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505202625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505202626	I am very much assuming that some engineering calculations have been made, some calculations on how many materials are to be used, on the one hand, by surplus land and, on the other, by virgin raw materials and others. There are some calculations behind it; these are not the figures that have been drawn out of the air here. So I trust the figures here, and there you have calculated how much surplus land there is in the municipality of Copenhagen itself; and then there is obviously a need for something in the municipalities, which also has to dispose of their surplus land. And that is what sums up what is needed here. So I actually don't see a problem in that. After all, it is surplus land that will still have to be transported, perhaps even longer than is the case here, and those trucks, that is, the driving that will be burdensome, we might as well be honest about that, will drive anyway, unless we assume that we stop all construction and development in the metropolitan area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505202721	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505202724	Yes, but it is not written anywhere in the stars, that all this earth must be poured into the Øresund. In other words, the rapporteur admits, contrary to the Socialists, that this is not just land to be transported there because otherwise it should have been transported somewhere in the inner city, but that it is actually about making an island and then adding the resources needed, among other things. By digging sand up in the ocean? So it is not just land that should be driven around anyway; it is the construction of an island that also uses soil and materials that should not otherwise have been dug up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505202754	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505202755	Yes, it's a construction of an island, and materials are needed. And there I think it is quite a good idea that the materials you have to dispose of in this area will then be placed there, especially because there is also climate protection involved, especially because there will also be a future district that can grow up there and become a very exciting place to live for the people of the future. So I actually think you combine some good things here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505202820	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, UFG.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505202821	Thank you. Now the rapporteur said that we need cheaper housing in Copenhagen, and that is absolutely right. After all, we have a major problem now, namely that Copenhagen has become for the rich, as opposed to what it was like in the past, where there was room for workers with their purses. However, in the comments on this proposal, it has been suggested that it is only 25 per cent. In the case of housing, which must be non-profit-making housing, it is easy to assume that the expensive housing, i.e. the 75%, will be built first because they generate the most income. Does the rapporteur not think that there is a problem of this weighting, so that it is in fact only 25 per cent that there is general housing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505202908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505202910	As far as I understand, it is not the case that we finally take a position on the distribution of housing with this bill that is so mentioned that it could be the distribution. In fact, however, I think it is healthy when you make new neighbourhoods that there are different types of housing so that we do not only have a category of citizens staying, but that it is a mix of citizens, including with different incomes and so on. I think that is a really strong thing we have in our society; so I really do not see that as a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505202937	Thank you. Susanne Zimmer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505202941	Thank you. I fully agree that we should have mixed housing, so I think that is fine. I think that the weighting between the forms of accommodation is 25 per cent. and 75%. But a completely different perspective is that it turns out that more people are moving from Copenhagen now than there have been in the past, so the number of immigrants is actually decreasing. This will be finished in 50 years, so we can't know what the need is in 50 years' time. Maybe these homes will be empty.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505203017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505203019	I don't think so. Well, the builders who will be, I don't think build such major constructions without being relatively sure that there are owners or tenants for them so I'm not so uncomfortable about that. Moreover, I welcome the fact that at some point in their lives some Copenhageners want to move to the countryside. That's very positive. But I do not see such a lemminge effect, i.e. there is now almost an escape from the capital; there is still a massive urbanisation of our country, including in relation to Copenhagen. So there are a lot of people moving to the capital.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505203051	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505203109	Thank you. There may be some who think that we should raise the flag today because of this very big decision, and there may be many good reasons for that too. We could also choose to hoist the flag because of May 5th, there might be even more reason for that. However, this does not change the fact that the Lynetteholm proposal has actually gained ground in broad political circles, and the Danish People's Party has also, as previous rapporteurs have said, been part of the agreements as far back as 2018, both in Copenhagen's citizens' representation, but also here in the Danish Parliament in relation to making the principle agreement mentioned here. An agreement in principle is an agreement in principle and an agreement in principle must give effect to the decisions of the agreement in principle. Some of the important points to be made today are, of course, the things that have not gone so well, and I think that some have gone a bit lightly over that, but I also think that we have to justifiably mention and address some of the concerns that have been and also some of the frustrations that have been, and perhaps some of the misunderstandings that have arisen in relation to the proposal we are discussing here, about the establishment of Lynetteholm. For example, back in 2020 in September, the Minister of Transport was asked how much it costs. I come from Jutland and, by the way, I think it is a very interesting subject, i.e. what it costs. What was perhaps also interesting, at least in relation to the media coverage of the reply, was that the Minister wrote in his reply: we do not know that. Perhaps we should also be allowed to raise the flag today and evaluate a little, given that it is now reasonable for us to adopt major decisions without having an overview of what it costs. What was stated in the replies from the Minister for Transport was that the infrastructure part cost about 26 billion. DKK 20 billion has been set. kr. We have a port tunnel, and then we have 6 billion. kr. off to the metro construction part. What you haven't just told is that it's for the cheapest of three models, and if you ask in the citizens' representation even if it's not Christmas Eve today, none of them wanted the cheapest solution, so to speak, no, they would actually rather have the expensive one, and it costs 14 billion. kr. Upstairs. I think we might also be able to mention that here today when we first deal with this bill. There are also significant risks in relation to what the base sales end up giving. And it is true that if we are to predict 30 years in the future, it is very difficult to assess whether there is hausser on the Stock Exchange or whether there is poverty throughout the capital. The estimates put forward by the Minister for Transport are, of course, in relation to an estimated base sale of between 7.4 and 23 billion. kr. Then the rest of us can say that they are in any case large numbers and that they will be true, but at least they are large numbers, and whether they are large numbers in 30 years' time will show. There have been a lot of concerns and there have been a lot of inquiries from citizens and associations here in the Copenhagen area, for example in relation to the Port of Margretheholms and the 750 yachts, and how they should sail in and out of Copenhagen's ports. Well, that's not entirely unimportant. For this project is somewhat larger than when we decided many years ago to put building waste into the library here at the Royal Library. That was before it was built, by the way. But it was actually the case that you took a lot of waste from Copenhagen and stuffed in and made solid underground, and it's the fine library garden that we go down and get filmed in. I saw that the SF held a press conference the other day down there. But it's built on garbage, I'd like to say. But that is the way things are going. That is the way things are going. This is forgotten after a few years, and it may also be that some of these concerns will be put to shame. We also remember how the criticism has been felt in relation to the establishment of a Storebælt link many years ago. I myself was one of the biggest opponents of state cofinancing for the project. I thought it should be just a user-funded model. But that's the way it is. We need to look at the concerns that have been, among others. relative to current ratio. Are they changing? Yes, they do. What does it mean for the voyage with the smaller boats? What happens to the sailing route and narrowing that is being implemented? What has happened to the right of appeal which many have criticized was too small and too poor? I also think that, although we support this bill, we need to address those questions and ensure that the Minister of Transport gets the answer to them. There are also people who have questioned whether there is any climate protection whatsoever in this project in relation to securing against future higher water levels in the Copenhagen area. All these questions, of course, I believe that the Minister of Transport must take an active part in and help to answer them. These should be my introductory remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505203632	Thank you for that, and then there are brief comments. First, it's from sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505203637	Thank you. The rapporteur says that there have been many concerns. I think I would say that in connection with this project on Lynetteholm there has been only one open, virtual citizens' meeting with City & Port, and there has been one political debate, as has also been mentioned, on TV 2/Lorry. This means that there has not been a single physical citizens' meeting where Copenhageners have been able to ask questions. Does the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party believe that this is a good and proper democratic process for such a large construction project that will last for 50 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505203718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505203719	No, and I am actually very pleased that the rapporteur chooses to ask about it, because that was one of the things I was not allowed to do because of the rules on speaking time that we have. I think we should have 10 minutes instead. Speaking of perhaps 40 billion. kr., maybe 10 minutes wasn't too much per. rapporteur. Perhaps we could discuss that another time. But that is quite correct, and it was also some of what emerged yesterday on the occasion of the meeting of the Committee on Transport, where people had just to point out some problems with the citizens' meetings, that there was one hour available and so on. It does not provide a good dialogue, no matter what agenda you may have.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505203759	I would just like to say to the rapporteur that it is possible to take another round. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505203804	Thank you. It's a positive commitment that this process might go just as fast, given the size of this project. I'd like to belong to another thing too. The rapporteur's party colleague Mr. After all, Morten Messerschmidt was out a few months ago in connection with the government's launch of a marine plan together with Mr. Martin Lidegaard from the Radicals and say that you could wish for a marine natural park in Øresund. I think this is a very sensible proposal, but how does the rapporteur think it relates to the fact that Lynetteholmen is going to destroy some rather valuable eel meadows, which are home to both fish fry and a large number of animal and plant species?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505203845	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505203847	There is, of course, the funny thing, if you are finally to be a little comical, that according to the eelgrass I would almost venture the claim that neither the questioner nor the one who has to give the answer knows quite much factually about eelgrass. We are laity judges; we are lay judges in the Folketing, and we have to weigh pro and counter every small and large question that comes to political consideration here in the Folketing. We must, of course, do so, and I also think that the questions addressed by the rapporteur should, of course, be examined. However, I also think that the rapporteur must rightly say that we cannot be expected, as rapporteurs, to explain this in a complex way in relation to biologists and the assessment of eelgrass by others, for example. It takes a little more time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505203928	Thank you. Mrs Susanne Zimmer, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505203931	Thank you. It is funny, because I think the rapporteur actually gives a whole lot of arguments not to support this proposal, but that is not the way it is. In relation to economics: I also come from Jutland, and I also find it a little interesting how much it costs. Actually, I don't know about any major projects that don't run over. Does the rapporteur? Well, can't you expect this to cost more than calculated?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505204000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505204001	Now it is not calculated how much it costs. That is what I actually said in my rapporteur's speech. Since September, the Minister has not been able to give an answer as to how much it costs. So I don't really think I can answer that. But I can answer the second question addressed by Mrs Susanne Zimmer. For example: was the Silkeborg motorway overfinanced with just over one and a half billion kroner, so we actually also have some examples that managed to get through a very good and healthy development project, where there was money at the bottom to free up for other to-dos then. But I cannot answer it in this particular case with a project that lasts 30 years and costs perhaps between 40 and 80 billion. kr. Overall. I also need to know something about future basic sales in the year 2080 on a land that does not exist today. So there are no ordinary, simple politicians who know how to answer that, and I am one of those who do not either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505204057	Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505204059	That is the case, of course, and I didn't expect anything else either, but I actually think it's a huge project to start without having a cloud about where it's going financially. But something else is the marine environment. We all know that the Øresund is the best marine environment we have in Denmark. Is the rapporteur not concerned that this is destroying something in relation to the marine environment? At least others are concerned about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505204123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505204124	Yes, I am, and that is why I have just invoked the fact that we have a layman's role as politicians. That is why we also need to listen to all the specialists who come to the people who know something about sea and wind and weather and environment and climate and everything else. It is also going to be concluded that I think the Minister will sign it in this process as well. Of course it does.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505204152	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505204154	The rapporteur's party should be commended for trying to ensure that we did not have the first reading today when we applied for it to be postponed. Thank you. I also understand that, because the rapporteur needs more time. In fact, I think that the rapporteur has now made a long speech on the drawbacks of the project. Well, the point is to get this project to crash like The Super League we have to put it down, we have to raise a wave against it, we have to get the Copenhageners engaged in putting it down again. Since the rapporteur has so many problems with that, could the rapporteur's party not be the first to withdraw? I am sure that this would create a fantastic positive response in Copenhagen and that the rapporteur's party would be thanked by thousands of Copenhagen voices who are about to find out that this project is going to ruin too much of their lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505204246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505204247	I don't think it's quite fair when Mr. Chandler... Torsten Gejl says we have a duty to know about all the consequences of this bill. I have to say frankly that there are not many politicians in the Kingdom of Denmark who do "maybe some from the Alternative do, but there are not so many, so to speak. But I'm gonna have to ask you that, sir. Torsten Gejl about. However, it is a historic project that extends over 30 years in which we have to assess future scenarios in terms of the environment and climate 30 years ahead. We have to assess the efforts in relation to what we can expect from prices in the housing market and land prices in 2080. I think we should be allowed to be a little more mediocre and say that politicians do not know much about this in 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505204336	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505204337	No, but I simply do not think we should vote for it. With the Danish history's first largest construction project for 80 billion. kr., where 80 million will be transported. I therefore believe that we must at least be aware of the consequences to which we can google ourselves in half a minute. And one of them is that there are really, very many eelgrass belts in the natural pearl we call the Øresund, where there haven't been trawled since the 1920s. Hopefully, the rapporteur is also aware that a lot of poison will be led into the Øresund. What does the rapporteur say that such a project would never have been allowed in Sweden?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505204412	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505204413	We can learn a lot from the Swedes. I would like to agree with the questioner, but we can also learn that there are many things we may not need to interfere with. And then I would like to say that I certainly hope that the alternative chooses something other than Google to shape their political pre-position for a project like this. And if the rapporteur really wants to criticise the Danish People's Party for not being able to assess what the basic prices will be in 2080, then I think it is the questioner who has a problem. I'm actually an honest politician, I say when there's something I don't know much about, and I don't see scenarios 30 years in the future, and there's not a lot of politicians who can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505204452	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505204513	Thank you. It's an exciting debate, and it's actually difficult, I think, in just five minutes to get all the things we in the SF think should be addressed in connection with this construction law. Lynetteholm is a good idea, we think in SF. We must, in any case, storm-flood-proof Copenhagen. We can get an area for housing, for new recreational areas with better access to the water.Copenhagen is a blue city and maybe we can also do it for almost no money. But we think that there are a number of rather serious problems in the proposal for a construction law that has been put forward. And I will try to get around most of it, but that is probably something we should also take in a rather hefty and thorough written process. Because, as we see it, this construction law is not necessarily in line with EU law, and although we think that Lynetteholm is a good idea, we have never said yes to doing this project in a way that is contrary to our EU legal obligations. It has been pointed out earlier in the debate that there are researchers who have criticised it here, among other things. Ellen Margrethe Basse, but also other researchers to whom we normally profess when we talk about EU environmental law. And I would like to ask the Minister for Transport whether the legal experts we have consulted in environmental law in the European Union at all when they did this. Because I can be in doubt. Have you consulted the Chamber Attorney's Office and received an assessment of whether this is in line with EU law? After all, the first complaints have already been lodged with the European Union's Civil Appeals Board, and that is so we might as well protect ourselves immediately and make sure that this is right. Some of the problems that are there are, among other things. what is being talked about in relation to the vvm directive. We find it problematic that, in this draft law, among other things. mentions an eastern ring road when you do not have a vvm study of an eastern ring road yet. We think it should be written entirely out of this bill, an eastern ring road and metro service, because that is precisely what is legally lacking in relation to the comments made by the VVM directive on how to put it here. But we do not really think that this is the most serious aspect of the criticism that comes from researchers. What we think is the most serious is that we do not have a habitat assessment; we have not consulted on the principle of non-degradation and the precautionary principle of the habitats directive. I also have doubts as to whether this complies with the Marine Strategy Directive. And this is something that is heartblood to us in the SF how to take care of nature in the future. When we do a project like this, we have a duty to show that we can do that, while at the same time looking after nature and making proper recovery. And for us, this means that when we are in the midst of a biodiversity crisis, we must give more back to nature than we take from nature. We must ensure that the influence on the eel grass meadows is dealt with, among other things. by perhaps making some replanting of what we do in Vejle Fjord. We must keep a watchful eye on the spread of sediment that is coming and that can stifle the seabed if things go really wrong. We need the silt net, and we need to establish rock reefs to clear the water as soon as possible. And it's kind of just the tip of the iceberg. We also have some problems with nitrogen and dangerous substances and water flow, and we need a guarantee that there is a zero solution in this. We do not think this is properly described. Then there is a problem with the right of appeal. It is suggested that the current environmental legislation should not really be taken into account by the Danish Road Traffic Authority. Instead, they have to act as environmental authorities, and then they have to draw up a lot of announcements in which, whatever decisions are made, they cannot be challenged. This is a deterioration of legal certainty in this, and we cannot understand that. Then there's the slap of the material in Køge Bay. I think it's quite an insult to call it flapping, you might as well call it spreading lighter contaminated material in Køge Bay. Isn't this the time for us to find an alternative to shushing in such a big project? Well, that's something we've been talking about for a long time. That's what we need. This is in a lot of ways a project with perspectives, but if we don't do it properly, it'll just be a really boring case, and then we'll have problems with people who are afraid that you'll build and do anything. That is why I would like to say that the SF cannot say at this stage whether we support the bill or are against it. We need answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205030	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's from sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205032	Thank you for the fact that the SF also tried to help ensure that this emergency procedure could be postponed a little today. And thank you for the rapporteur's very, very thorough approach to this. After all, all the improvements that the SF requires to ever have to get this through will never be accepted by the other parties. I mean, I have huge respect for each and every one of the demands of the rapporteur on the project, but I am equally sure that it will never succeed in getting the project adjusted on all the parameters. Shouldn't SF get out of this and help make sure this project never comes true?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205124-2	I think there are some strange contradictions in what the Alternative's rapporteur puts forward. What is the difference between us in the SF and the alternative rapporteur is that we sit at the table and try. It is possible that we do not get all the way; it often happens, because unfortunately it is in such a difficult democracy as the Danish one. In view of the fact that the rapporteur thinks that we are better off with the SF standing outside and, to quote the rapporteur, helping to ensure that this will never happen. There's a minister down there who's going to do this, and there's a bourgeois block over there who thinks it's quite good as it is. Isn't it better that the SF sits at the table when the alternative is outside?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205210	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205210-2	No, because the SF is going to sit and be in decorating again. Then you have to fight for your position instead. Instead of trying to make small improvements that do not succeed, you have to fight for what you believe in. You have to try to raise a resistance to this. We need to get the Minister to understand that this is not working. We need to discuss this with the Copenhageners. We have to make time. We need to fight instead of once again getting to the table and proposing some minor changes which are probably not going to happen. SF should fight for what SF believes, instead of going into the compromises.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205246	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205247	But SF does. I've been talking to the Minister of Transport about Lynetteholm as recently as today. I sat with him last night and talked about Lynetteholm and presented some of these things. Let's see how far we go. Of course, there is always a pain limit, but the fact that you cannot fight at the negotiating table, but you have to stand outside, is the fundamental difference between the rapporteur and me. And I guess we'll never agree on that. But I think we should both be grateful that some people are standing outside shouting, while some people are sitting inside trying to move the little things. Both are necessary and we cannot all do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205323	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, UFG.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205323-2	Thank you. I think there are many arguments that this is not a good idea and I hope that the SF can get through with them, but I also think it is very optimistic, but it is also good to be optimistic. In relation to the democratic process, we have of course had some issues raised, but does the rapporteur not think that it is deeply problematic that it is City & Port that has produced the environmental impact report, because it is precisely City & Port that wants it through here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205401-2	As far as I know, it actually says, for example. in the vvm directive, that it is City & Port that will produce the environmental impact report if it is to comply with the vvm directive. I even think it says that it should be financed by the City & Port if it is to comply with that directive. So I'm not sure I agree with that. I can see some challenges in terms of what powers are given, for example. City & Port; they get some very extensive powers, without it really being something we have regulated, for example. in EU directives, right now. And we find that problematic. However, I do not believe that it is precisely those who do the environmental impact assessment that are the main problem in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205439	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205439-2	Yeah, I may be wondering, but that's what it is. In relation to the fact that it is proposed that there should be only 25%. The rapporteur thinks that this is a fine weighting between the cheap apartments and the probably more expensive apartments?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205458-2	The SF will not think so, presumably, but it is not, in fact, something we adopt with this proposal. I think, moreover, that there are many things in the remarks in this draft law which we do not believe need to stand there and which actually muddle the debate a little a la what the rapporteur is putting forward here. So when we get there, and if the SF is in at that time and has agreed to vote for this bill, hopefully with a number of amendments • then we would like to have a significantly higher amount of general housing; but I think that much of that I will leave to our city roots in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205528	Then it's mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205529	Thank you. In his speech, the rapporteur said that it seemed really stupid that the port tunnel was mentioned in the draft law, and the rapporteur would have liked to have written that out, because it could then be considered as an environmental assessment. Would it not be more obvious, in fact, to take all the elements which lie there and which the environmental court professors, both Ellen Margrethe Basse and Peter Pagh, have criticized, in other words to take all the parts that lie in the agreement of principle and which would, of course, be a natural extension of Lynetteholmen, and then to make an environmental assessment of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205609	So, as I understand Ellen Margrethe Basse, this is the need for co-thinking, that is, a coordinated and/or a common procedure for meeting the requirements of the VVM directive, and that is also true of the various elements here and what vvms are on them. Such a coordinated or common procedure is needed. Whether that necessarily means making a big joint vvm statement, I'm not sure that's the key in the legal here, and it's not certain that this big joint vvm statement would be of great benefit. I believe that what is important is that we have the vvm available at the same time so that we can assess it overall. And we are rather sorry that we are now standing here to deal with a construction law where we do not have the vvm on East Ringvej and on the metro service, because we should have that when we have to deal with the construction law, especially when these things are in the comments. That's what I'm reading out of law school. But it is possible that a large overall vvm statement would actually just be inadequate; it would not get into depth with the things it needs to in depth, and then it would probably also have to be renewed much later.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205722	Then it's mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205724	It is clear that if an overall environmental assessment were to be carried out, the accumulated effects that will be on the environment could also be brought to light. We do not do that with the legislative proposal that has been put forward today. However, the rapporteur also said that it would only be possible to vote in favour of this bill if the zero point for the environment was secured. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur sincerely believes that we can ensure the same level of eelgrass in the Øresund, that we can ensure that the marine environment in the Baltic Sea is not affected, that water flow is not affected and that we do not have any additional environmental impact.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205759	We'll get the answer, here we go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205800	I think what I said was that when we talked about nitrogen, dangerous substances and water flow, we would like a zero solution. I am sure that we can ensure that level of eelgrass, for example. I do not know about the replanting and planting of double areas, which we in the SF think should be done. That depends on the debate. I know this is something for which the SFs in the Civil Representation are fighting, and so will I. I hope so. But we are certainly not getting anything from the fact that the SF is not sitting at the negotiating table and presenting these things. Because I don't listen to the bourgeois, that they're interested in eelgrass.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205834	Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205836	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for a good speech. It was good in the sense that I can only respect the fact that when we make legislation in here, the SF rapporteur will ensure that we are sure that what we are doing here is connected. Therefore, I am also pleased that SF's rapporteur distanced herself from Mrs Susanne Zimmer, who began to suspect that it was City & Port that had to conduct an environmental study here, of course in close dialogue with the Danish Environmental Protection Agency and the Danish Transport Agency. I am glad that the SF's rapporteur says so, because I am getting a little tired of it if we are to suspect everything, even when we are being treated here in Parliament, and I do not think the SF's rapporteur does that; in fact, I think it is fair. In fact, I am standing up now to intervene in those suspicious arguments and other things that are being drawn into this debate, so I just want to hear: can the SF's rapporteur not confirm that City & Port has had a responsibility to carry out these investigations, that they have done so with the authorities, and that, when we hopefully adopt this law, we also have to check that they remain within the construction law we are adopting?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205942	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505205943	I mean, I think that the rapporteur has some fine points in relation to not suspecting the people who are working on this. However, I would just like to say that we in the SF still think there is something suspicious about making the Danish Traffic Authority an environmental authority, without really having the knowledge to do so, in this bill. We also find it a little bit unfortunate that, not long ago, a consultation process was actually completed on top of the last report that came, for the establishment of Lynetteholm it was this report that came at the end of March on the establishment and then with an additional thematic report for the deepening of the sailing path and for clapping but that we did not get the result of the consultation, even though the consultation has been completed. I think that is a pity when we stand here today. It helps to make some people sit and become suspicious. Why haven't we got it before we have to deal with this construction law? I am not saying that there is anything suspicious in it, necessarily, but I hope that the rapporteur will take into account the fact that there are some parts of the process that could be better if the suspicion were removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505210048	Thomas Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505210049	Should we not then give each other hands here orally that we now have a first reading today, and then we have plenty of time, including in committee, for there to be room for consultations, there may be room for technical reviews, and there may be room for additional reviews and consultation notes, if that is what is needed, and in this way we can get ourselves a really, very good process in which we will have this bill worked through so that we can all take a position on the legislative proposal that is before us on an enlightened basis. It is, of course, up to us now to make sure that things are done in the right way, and I expect SF will also be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505210125	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505210126	Yes, of course. In fact, we already have a number of committee issues on the way over, and we hope, of course, that the government and the Social Democrats will respond to some of the objections we are going to make. We already have, for example. I was given a fine legal basis, on which I also had a small turn with the rapporteur, when he himself was on the platform, to allow Copenhageners to interfere a little with these land transports, which I can hear fills a lot in the debate, and perhaps we can go further.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505210158	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505210227	Thank you. Slagelse, Hillerød, Holbæk, Sønderborg, Ringsted and Hjørring. Yes, what is common to those cities? It is that they have fewer residents than the future Lynetteholm. If Lynetteholm were an independent city, it would be Denmark's 20th largest city with 35,000 inhabitants. But that is not what the government is proposing for us to deal with today. With L 220 a construction law is being laid up to allow a 280-football field-wide landfill to be built, and we are discussing an authorisation for City & Port to build a reception facility on Refshale Island, construction of a access road from the Touchstone to the receiving plant, deepening the sailing path in the Kronjøn south of the Middelgrunden, and clapping of harbour sludge in Køge Bay. We are dealing with all this today. But more interesting, it's almost what we're not dealing with. After all, we are not dealing with the urban development that should otherwise be carried out on top of the landfill, and the very great consequences that it has for the harbour of Copenhagen and the neighbourhoods around Lynetteholm. Nor are we treating the area by metro, nor are we dealing with the port tunnel, the so-called Eastern Ringvej. But why is it that we are not doing this? After all, we all know that this is the purpose of the land being filled. After all, many of the consultation responses refer specifically to urban development. Indeed, even the third circle of Social Democracy in Copenhagen also highlights urban development and even refers to it as a source of co-financing for both metro and port tunnels. If the consequence of the land filling was not the possibility of urban development in the new area, no one in their full five would consider throwing 80 million at all. to land in Øresund just outside Copenhagen. In fact, there is also an agreement which describes urban development in this area, and the government's infrastructure project allocates the EUR 12.7 billion. kr. for medium-term financing of the metro and port tunnel. But why is it that this is not part of what we are discussing today? Could it be that an overall project would have such environmental consequences that the burden would be so great that the project would not be able to be implemented under the VVM Directive? Yes, we are not going to find out about the legislative proposal that has been presented today. Instead, the full project is divided into bits: first the soil filled, then the urban development, then the harbour tunnel and the metro. And it is actually a well-known method, yes, it is so well known that it has been given its own name: the method of salami is called it. This means avoiding an overall environmental impact assessment by splicing a project into bits. This issue has, among other things, been the subject of the debate. got Professor of Environmental Law Peter Pagh to respond, and in this context he is quoted in Politiken as saying: "No sober people would make environmental assessment of half a bridge. ▪ It is quite the same here: If you are to build Lynetteholm, the things that are required for it to function must be included, including the infrastructure. In the Enhedslisten we are extremely concerned about what is happening with Lynetteholm. For well enough, the entire urban development has not been included in the project, and this is problematic in itself. However, the argument that Lynetteholm must first and foremost climate-proof Copenhagen is, frankly, not a lot to buy. I would like to refer again to the consultation answers, how many people attach importance to future urban development. And if it was climate protection, then there are a number of options for smaller plants that do not involve the large environmental impact that will be at Lynetteholm. The Construction Act itself has major environmental consequences. These are traffic and noise from 700 heavy goods vehicles, which are to transport land daily to Lynetteholm. This is noise from the downhitting of bouncing, which will be heard over very large areas, including central Copenhagen, Christianshavn and the northeast Amager. It is the impact on the eel meadows and the seawater flow in the Sound and the potential disaster that it would be for the Baltic ecosystem. Among other things, it has. Skåne län problematatized in rather strong terms. Finally, I would like to highlight the many objections to the Construction Act and to the vvm report. This is not only about a large number of concerned citizens and associations, but also about authorities and companies such as ARC, BIOFOS Lynette Community, Region Sjælland, Region of the Capital Region, Tårnby Municipality, Gentofte Municipality and the Danish National Board of Culture. Frankly, I think that we politicians here in the Danish Parliament owe it to all these many, many people, associations, organisations and authorities who are not comfortable with this project to ensure that construction projects of such enormous size as Lynetteholm are not simply rushed through, as is being proposed here. We owe it to all these people to take this whole process much more seriously and to spend the time necessary for public conversation and to have a process in which we turn all the issues around and properly elucidate them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505210730	There are brief comments. First, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505210733	Thank you. It is true that the reason why people have chosen to fill up land in what becomes Lynetteholmen is because they want to use it for housing and jobs afterwards, just as they are currently filling up land in Nordhavn in order to get new land for housing there. My question to Enhedslisten is: Since Enhedslisten says no to all new urban development projects in Copenhagen that can provide new housing, which new urban development projects can Enhedslisten say yes to? Where does Enhedslisten think that new housing should be built in Copenhagen when Enhedslisten says no to the urban development projects currently being implemented, including Lynetteholmen? How, according to Enhedslisten, will there be room for the many new people who want to live in Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505210827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505210828	It is really crucial for Enhedslisten that the urban development that must be must also be in harmony with both our marine environment and the pressured nature that is, for example, on the Amager Common. We would like to see an obligation to live in Copenhagen, so that we do not just have empty apartments that rich people can use this weekend. We would also like to see much more use being made of attic. And then it is clear that when we look at urban development, we will also look at the entire capital region. We cannot look in isolation at Copenhagen, and that coherence and planning is missing at least today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505210900	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505210901	But it is undoubtedly the case that there are very many people who want to live inside the City of Copenhagen. These are people who do not necessarily want to live in Hvidovre or in Glostrup or out on Zealand. They want to live in the City of Copenhagen, and that is why they are willing to pay a higher rent inside Copenhagen than outside Copenhagen. Enhedslisten has an answer to all these people, or is Enhedslisten's answer: Yes, you can get the few homes that can be made available if we make sure that there is a residence obligation everywhere, and if we use some dry ceilings in some places, and otherwise you can stay outside Copenhagen, because Enhedslisten will not allow room for new homes in Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505210945	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505210946	The Enhedslisten wants to help create new homes in Copenhagen, and we were as recently as last week, when 162 new general homes were created on Amager, I believe it was. But it is clear that we will not be helping to destroy, for example, the marine environment in the Øresund and in the Baltic Sea, which can be the consequence of this if you build Lynetteholmen. That is why we need to think it smarter, and in my first speech I have mentioned a few examples of where we can see there could be additional housing square meters in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211014	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211015	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for a sensible and wise speech in my opinion. I think the noise problem is huge. It is huge during the establishment phase, and the WHO says that they estimate that in Denmark 500 people will die prematurely due to noise. And then we have a whole lot of people who will live there, if there is a Lynetteholmen, and who is going to the center of Copenhagen, and then it will be a new noise nuisance there. And if you make nice traffic conditions, there'll just be more cars. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211100	I would say that whether you build Lynetteholmen or not, it is absolutely crucial that we upgrade public transport and make it a real alternative to the car for far more Danes, also in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211116	Thank you. Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211119	Thank you. I'm here with an article that has a headline called Fakenews and disinformation: Enhedslisten is spreading incorrect information about Lynetteholmen. It is a poster that has been hung on Vesterbro, apparently by Enhedslisten, and where it says no to 720 trucks daily through Vesterbro for 15 years and no to much more truck traffic on Vesterbro. The truth is just someone else. The environmental impact report underlying this bill actually says that there will be less truck traffic on Vesterbro than there is today. So I just want to hear Enhedslisten's rapporteur whether you think it is a good poster that the party has hung up on Vesterbro or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211206	No, that is not a good poster, because, as the rapporteur also says, what it says is not right. And I really regret that we have a local section in my party that has put up those posters. And as soon as we became aware of it, we also informed the department, and the posters were immediately taken down.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211227	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211227-2	Thank you. I am pleased that the rapporteur's party here at Christiansborg has done so. This also confirms to me that the present rapporteur is a decent person. And I'm glad you've taken up your local department at Vesterbro. Because this is gonna help create such an aura around this decision. Of course it's some complicated matter we're through here, but we also have to stay too good to run with half winds and untruths. And that is why I hope, in relation to the process we are now embarking on today, that we will have a good, objective debate, including in committee, and that all parties will help us to have a very good committee working so that when we press the button in this Chamber at the third reading, everyone really knows what we are voting for or voting against.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211309	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211310	I totally agree. I think that this should be an objective and proper debate, and it was also one of the things I said in my rapporteur's speech, in that I think that the democratic process that has taken place has gone very, very quickly. Perhaps we should press the stop button so that we can actually have that debate with the Copenhageners too. Because it is a complex size, as we could also hear when the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party was up here. There are very, very many facets, and I think it is absolutely crucial that we get it clarified before a go button for Lynetteholmen can be pressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211342	Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211343	Thank you for that and thank you for a fine speech by the rapporteur. After all, we have many common concerns about Lynetteholm, and we each have our own way of dealing with them and fighting against them, and that is the way it is. I'm okay with that, and I think Enhedslisten has that too. I'd like to hear Enhedslisten about something, and it's out of curiosity. I understand you're against building Lynetteholm, but what are you going to do instead? I only ask because I do not actually know exactly what Enhedslisten thinks should be done. Should you have the kind of flood protection that is in London, for example, in other words this very long, not very flattering wall out by the Thames? Where are we gonna get all the new homes? Does Enhedslisten have any suggestions on how to resolve it instead? In fact, I sincerely believe that there are good perspectives in the project with Lynetteholm and that the idea is very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211447	I do not want to go into what solution for climate protection should be rather than a Lynetteholm project. You are also currently in the process of a storm-trend security report on how to best ensure Copenhagen, both from the south and from the north, and I think it would be a good idea to start from that point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211512	Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211514	Thank you. Well, that's a sensible answer, can one say, but does the Enhedslisten not recognise that there are some good development perspectives in the idea of Lynetteholm, regardless of what one thinks about the process and the construction law that lies here and that we can both agree on is flawed to best? Does Enhedslisten not think that making an island that both storm tides ensure, but also allows for some urban development and hopefully also some recreational areas, is really a good idea on a theoretical level?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211553-2	In a thought scenario, where there was no major CO2 at the port tunnel, which comes naturally as a consequence of having to build Lynetteholmen, it might well be that we would look at it a little more positively. This is just not the reality and the project we are looking at right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211616	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211619	I just thought it was a little distasteful of the Socialist rapporteur to mock the Enhedslisten for making a mistake with regard to this passage to Copenhagen. Yeah, it was a mistake, 'cause this is gonna be rushed through. The Ministry of Transport has, I do not know how many officials to check through all the documentation, the Social Democratic Party is a huge party, and they run it through here so we can barely talk about it, and then one small party is criticized for making a single mistake while you are making a major disaster yourself. I think that is simply distasteful.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211657	I don't know if I have so many comments on that; it probably wasn't quite so much directed to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211705	Sir. Torsten Gejl? We thank the rapporteur and then it has become the Conservatives' Niels Flemming Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505211723	Thank you very much, sir. President. A great deal has been said at this stage and, as the President can testify, many points have been made in my speech, since there is no reason to repeat many of the good things that have been said at the present time. But Lynetteholmen is going to serve several positive purposes. First of all, Lynetteholmen must climate-proof Copenhagen against the future threat of storm tide. The development in Copenhagen is, after all, a history of achievement. Since 1550 we have expanded Copenhagen. On the one hand, it was defense and fortification rings to keep the enemy out, on the other hand, it is the general development of the city, trade and industry, and, indeed, it is popular to say that where we defended ourselves before against enemies, we must today defend ourselves against the climate. I would remind you that, when we had a flood in Copenhagen in 2011, it cost 4.8 billion. kr. in financial losses and damage, and I would remind you that in 2013 there were 7 billion in the Bodil storm. kr. in loss and damage as well as a single death. This is how, if you look at the projections of the forecasts, they say that by the year 2100 the water level will have increased by 70 cm. At the same time, it can be said that there will be storm floods like Bodil, which came in 2013 when there was a water level rise of 2.4 m. So it is necessary to do something here. In the longer term, Lynetteholmen must also develop into a new attractive district, and I think that is very, very positive. This is good for urban development, and Lynetteholmen must also be able to help finance the metro service in the area as well as the establishment of an eastern ring road. It must also be said that a construction project of a size such as Lynetteholm will inevitably affect the surrounding urban areas to a greater or lesser extent during the construction work. Similarly, the duration of the construction project can contribute to the fact that genes are experienced as more and more intrusive, and we would urge that plans be made to minimise the nuisances that have to come into the construction phase as much as possible. With these words, of course, we support the proposal to build Lynetteholm and we look forward to entering the committee procedure, which I personally expect will be long, very long, but also thorough. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505212005	There is a brief comment on Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505212008	Thank you. I note that the rapporteur says that there will be nuisances during the start-up phase, and that is probably 30 years. Does the rapporteur think that noise protection needs to be provided and that something simply needs to be done to mitigate this increase in noise? Yesterday at the consultation we heard that the noise would increase in several places by 2 decibels, and that is actually quite a lot, since the curve is exponential. So does the rapporteur think about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505212040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505212041	I have not at this stage thought much about noise protection, but one of the other things which came out of the otherwise excellent consultation yesterday, as Mr. Torsten Gejl and Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen had called, and which I thought was really fine, because there were many things that were illuminated, after all, about how the trucks are going to drive through Copenhagen and how much they are making noise in the individual areas. And there was at least a debate going on about whether there is a period within which these lorries can drive, and I think that we should certainly look at this very, very positively in committee, just as we say that noise is at least the least disturbing when people are at work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505212119	Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505212120	Yes, the rapporteur actually came before me because I really wanted to hear: when does the rapporteur think the noise should be? After all, there are people in Copenhagen all day round, some are at work and some are at home because they may be looking after children, and there are some at school etc. So when are the good times of much noise?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505212142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505212143	That is absolutely right, and it is one of the things we will be dealing with in the next period that we are now entering. At the same time, it can be said in relation to the lorries that are driving, that the next 31⁄2 years, when we do not have to transport so much, are going fast. Then we also know that there is an archaeological excavation in the harbour of Copenhagen, and no one knows how long it will take. And then the question is, what are the trucks running on, i.e. what does the car have in the tank when it goes through the streets of Copenhagen, and whether there is anything that can be done to eliminate the noise?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505212219	Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505212221	The rapporteur said that it was probably a long committee procedure that came to be in connection with this legislative proposal. In fact, I would like to know whether the rapporteur believes that we will have this bill finalised before Parliament goes on summer vacation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505212240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505212240-2	That is an exceptionally good question, which I do not have a Chineseman's chance to answer. So thank you for that. For me, as rapporteur in this area, it is important that it is done properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505212255	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505212316	Thank you. Then the first Copenhagener came on the platform. After a long series of Jutland politicians and one from Zealand came the first Copenhagener. It's for me one day when I'm happy. I look forward very, very much to the Lynetteholm project being launched. There are several aspects to this. Actually, I should be against it, because every night, when I sleep, I make money because my home is worth more. I believe that it will continue even if a Lynetteholm is built, but it is certain that housing prices in Copenhagen will rise more if a Lynetteholm is not built than if a Lynetteholm is built. It will be harder to live in Copenhagen if a Lynetteholm is not built than if a Lynetteholm is built. Lynetteholm will accommodate 35,000 people when it is complete, and additionally jobs for 35,000 people. The more homes we get built in Copenhagen, the more we prevent housing prices from exploding in Copenhagen, the more there will be room for in Copenhagen, and the lower rents you will be able to have in Copenhagen. We will probably see rising rents in Copenhagen in the coming years, even if a lot is being built. But if nothing is built, it will rise even further. This is because, despite the fact that not enough has been built, more has been built than in Oslo than in Stockholm, than in London and in other cities where the city regime has not been able or did not want to initiate new housing projects in the same way as it has been in Copenhagen. So everyone who stands up and yells no every time someone proposes to establish new housing opportunities in Copenhagen owes it to them to answer where they want the many people who want to move to Copenhagen. Over the next 12 years, it is expected to be 100,000 people. Where are they gonna live? They cannot live in Copenhagen unless housing is built. In other words, prices are going to increase even more. Another reason why I welcome this on behalf of Copenhagen is that I feel like other Copenhageners, I think: we actually like living in a city where there is growth and where there is development. I think it is part of what we experience as the charm at Copenhagen, so that something new is happening all the time, that there is constant progress, that we constantly see new opportunities that we did not have yesterday. And I welcome the fact that 35,000 new jobs are being created on Lynetteholm. It is 35,000 new jobs which are not there today, but which we will have in the future, and which will be able to offer themselves to the citizens of Copenhagen. At the same time there will be room for people to live there, so that you don't have to live far out on Zealand and then drive into Copenhagen. I do not understand the people who talk about climate being challenged by building housing close to where people live rather than living far away and then moving in. In addition to the fact that it can be seen as a waste of time to transport yourself in, it is at least also 100 percent certain that resources, including environmental resources, will be used, including CO2 emissions We hear something about the marine environment. In particular, Enhedslisten has focused on this. 70% the surface of the earth is covered by sea. After we have built 2.8 km2 Lynetteholm, 70% are still gone. of the surface of the earth covered by sea. It is absolutely ridiculous to claim that something priceless nature is being lost because we are building 2.8 km2 of land on a land that for 70%.I looked it up, and there are 1,355,000,000 km2 of sea in the world. Here comes 2.8 km2 more land. There are so many zeros behind the decimal point when it comes to how many percent less sea is going to be, that it is absolutely unbelievable. So also for this reason we support the construction of Lynetteholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505212836	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And that's why it's now, sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505212853	Thank you, President. If it's such a good idea to spend 80 billion. kr. to pour 80 million. To earth in the Øresund, and to make a city the size of Hillerød, why is it to be rushed through? Why not have a proper discussion with the Copenhageners about what this will mean for their city? I do not think Copenhagen has really realised what is really happening. You stand here on the platform pretending that you want to make storm protection and thus an island that, in the words of the Socialist rapporteur, you can use for something. Well, the plan is to make a city out there, to make a metro and a highway and to move a sewage treatment plant. You're also pretending to dig up this land and drive around the inner city. Then why is it that 30%? of the land to be taken out of Zealand? As far as I can figure out, it's about. 5% picked up from the sea, and over 20%. comes from the other Lynetteholms buildings. In the opinion of the Alternative, the Lynetteholm project is expensive and unnecessary. It pollutes with toxic particles. It emits CO 2 DKK if the price pr. ton will be 1,500 kroner. in CO 2 It fills Copenhagen with truck noise for 30 years. It pollutes the Øresund, it destroys the King's Dive, and it affects the ocean currents in the Øresund. And the Social Democrats stand on the platform pretending to build a land depot. But if we then pretend to believe in it and look at the consequences of pouring 80 million. It will affect Copenhagen for 30 years. For some long periods, 700 trucks pass through the streets of the inner city during the day! And that's not 350, because they're going back, unless you're going to chop them up and pour them in Lynetteholmen. What effect will this have on people's lives? What about sentence damage in the houses? What about noise? What about particle contamination? What about CO2 What about road safety? What about quality of life? What about the kids who have to grow up and have a truck a minute as a backdrop in their street all their childhood? And what about the Øresund? What about the poison and heavy metals that leak into the Øresund? What about the flow in the Øresund? What do we think about the fact that it would not have been legal in Sweden to pour so much toxic soil in the Sound? But these are not just the problems we face. This is a classic salami method or what you call slicing in English. We hear the government talking about a bunch of land becoming an island that might be used for something, and at the same time a plan has been drawn up for the motorway, metro and the relocation of treatment plants to 12 billion. kr. But you dare not turn it into a joint project and put forward the overall environmental assessment of it all. I agree with Enhedslisten that we owe Copenhagen a proper discussion and I do not understand why the government does not have the nerve for that discussion with the Copenhageners on an enlightened basis. Let us postpone this legislative process and at least allow Copenhageners to discuss this properly. Right now it is pouring in with e-mails and it has only recently begun from incredibly worried Copenhageners. And if the Copenhageners want this project, let them have it, but at least it wasn't enough for people to be allowed to take a proper position on it. The alternative shall vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213250	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213254	Thank you for your concern, sir. Torsten Gejl. I live on the very street where most of the trucks go through. I am not worried, nor about sentence damage in my building, which is something, as Mr. Torsten Gejl found in a vending machine that was supposed to sell something else. There will be no sentence damage on our building because there are trucks driving out there; there are trucks driving in advance. What kind of nonsense is that? I think, sir. Torsten Gejl must allow the Copenhageners to build that island because that is what the Copenhageners want. There is a broad majority in Copenhagen's citizens' representation that wants it here. Soon there will be municipal elections, and that will be a theme in the municipal elections. The adoption of a construction law for Lynetteholmen now in the Danish Parliament does not mean that there is a duty to build Lynetteholmen. It will still be possible for the City of Copenhagen to say after the municipal elections: Ej, we don't really want that. But there will not be a majority after the municipal elections, and there is no majority now. Copenhagen wants to build Lynetteholmen. Why does Mr. Torsten Gejl forbid Copenhagen to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213357	I say that the Copenhageners should have the right to a proper discussion of this, rather than the rapporteur's party, together with other parties that do not have the nerves, for God's sake, having this dealt with before a municipal elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213417	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213418	This is a permit to begin, and the Copenhageners can still leave after the municipal elections decide that they will not. You can do that. The municipal elections are a thorough discussion. So I'm just asking you why, sir. Torsten Gejl will forbid Copenhagen to do this. Copenhagen actually wants to do this. Why would Mr. Knox have to? Torsten Gejl, with his starting point in the Østjyllands Storkreds, must not say that, although an agreement has been reached with the State and the City of Copenhagen that this should be done, even if there is soon municipal elections, and although it is possible for Copenhagen's citizens' representation to say that they will actually not after the municipal elections, which is a thorough discussion of the policy being conducted in the municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213457	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213458	Now the rapporteur has been elected in Jutland, so the rapporteur is a little far away from home if you are going to go after the rapporteur's constituency. But I think this project is bad because of particle pollution, CO2 Therefore I think that Copenhageners should be allowed to discuss it properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213534	Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213535	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur has mentioned it several times with 700 trucks a day, one per minute, which I find deeply worrying. But does the rapporteur think that the 700 lorries have included sand and gravel being driven out there, and that building materials will later have to be driven, or will they be added to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213600	The 700 trucks I am referring to are, of course, those which are contained in an answer that came from the Minister for Transport, whom I have asked how many trucks will drive through the inner streets of Copenhagen all these years. So that's the information I'm taking as my starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213620	Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213621	Yes, and that is also how I think it is, and it really means that this figure is going to be much higher and that it will last for many more years. So is the rapporteur not concerned if that is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213636	Yes, I am, but I have to take the figures that come out of the Ministry of Transport. After all, they have a lot more officials than I do. But what I'm afraid of is that you can't find all this land and that's why we're really gonna have a situation where this is gonna drag on, not just for 30 years, but maybe for 40 years. There have been huge construction projects in Copenhagen in recent years, and now it is said that there will be no more land, instead of saying that grotesque quantities have already been running and that it will continue for 30 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213707	Niels Flemming Hansen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213708	Thank you very much, sir. President. Today I have been out to see the North Harbour and see the grotesque amounts of land lying out there. It almost resembles the hills of Goslar and Hahnenklee at Harzen. I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. Today, land is also being driven out there, and these 350 trucks will be right enough when they return to 700 trucks. Does the rapporteur know how many people are going there today on that stretch?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213736	No, I don't have the specific figure.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213738	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213740	I say no, I do not have the specific figure.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213742	No, we discussed it yesterday at the conciliation meeting, where I think the Minister indicated it to be the same 350 trucks which then turned into 700 trucks, but it may be that the Minister can reply to it when he gets on the platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213755	Well, that fits very well with what I am saying, namely that the grotesque transport of land, which comes from the fact that there have been some huge construction projects in Copenhagen over recent years, will continue. It's just going to run off other streets.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213809	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213812	Now the rapporteur mentioned earlier today in the debate that the rapporteur had Googled a great deal in relation to today's debate. And perhaps that is why the rapporteur speaks a lot in headlines. I would like to ask the rapporteur about the transport of this land. Does the rapporteur know how many truckloads of land there can be on an average transport ship carrying such goods, such as loose soil? How many truckloads can there be on such an average ship?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213853	I did not say that I had goneogled wildly, I said that the things that the rapporteur did not know when the rapporteur gave his speech up here could be Googled in half a minute. That's what I said. And the rapporteur can go back on the television footage from this case and confirm that. This does not mean that the rapporteur will not be able to find any strange technical question, which I cannot answer to. Of course you can. We can always do that when we're up here on the platform, and we can use that time. DF did it yesterday, too, where Mr. Morten Messerschmidt asked about something completely grotesque, how many paragraphs there were in some law that the Minister did not have a chance to answer. There's no one walking around with that knowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213940	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505213941	When the rapporteur does not answer my question, I have to ask again. Because the rapporteur has spent all his speaking time explaining how many trucks are going to drive 700 trucks, which is as good as 350. The rapporteur has spent all his time on this, and the rapporteur must be able to tell us a little about how many of the loads can be converted into shiploads. Much of the earth will not just come from within Copenhagen. Some of it will be sailed out there. And I think the rapporteur should at least be able to google a little when the rapporteur puffs himself up, compared with how many loads of land there can be on a ship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505214023	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505214024	I would like to say first of all that the 700 lorries are not 350 trucks, because a truck that moves forward must also go back unless the rapporteur wants to cut them all up and put them in Lynetteholm. With regard to the second question, I have the feeling that the rapporteur has answered, so if the rapporteur has answered, I think the rapporteur should share Parliament's views and thus raise this debate a little bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505214056	That is not possible at all right now, because there are no more brief comments. Thank you. Thomas Jensen Jo, I have asked for the floor). You have to press for the floor at least. Thomas Jensen, I've done the same thing. ) No, sir. Thomas Jensen only now ( Thomas Jensen No. ) Well, it's so that I have a screen up here, where I can see who's been popping in, and sir. Thomas Jensen has just pressed in, and of course Mr. Thomas Jensen has the floor. But I'm just pointing out that it didn't happen until the end. Here you go, sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505214123	I do not want to go into any discussion with the President, but I can tell you that I was actually given the floor a moment ago by the President, because my microphone was lit. So there's something wrong with the technique in this house. Well, I have one minute to ask a question from now on. I would like to give the rapporteur the opportunity to wear the jahat, because so far it has been the 'no' hat. We, a lot of parties here, have an ambition to solve a problem of soil dumping and to solve a problem of storm-proofing Copenhagen from the north. So now I would like to give the rapporteur the opportunity to tell us how the alternative will solve the challenge of taking land away to landfill? Where's it gonna be? is the one question. The second question is: how will the alternative storm tide-proof Copenhagen from the north side?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505214209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505214210	One could, for example: use some of the materials of which one builds an island to stormproof up the coast.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505214225	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505214226	So, as I hear it, some of the materials you build an island are used to storm-proof. That's exactly what we're doing. Torsten Gejl Jo. ) I think I have the floor! We're gonna solve two problems at once. Then we are not going to pull any land from the outside to stormproof, but we can bring in some land that 70 percent of the land is already in the area. The alternative is not the alternative is that we are going to run land on long stretches with a lot of CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20210505214301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505214302	In other words, it still sounds strange that the rapporteur is talking about flood protection when it is really about building an island and a city the size of Hillerød and a metro and motorway and sewage treatment plant. Well, I still don't buy it. But those with whom I have spoken, who know something about storm flood protection, are not sure that the wisest way to get as much storm flood protection as possible out of 80 million. The soil on is about to shove it down on one spot in the Øresund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505214334	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Susanne Zimmer, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505214401	Thank you for the floor. The premise that this project will become a reality is based on the expensive residential areas on the island being sold to offset the cost of creating the island. We have heard that the island is going to pay itself, but it is a hugely uncertain basis to go into this project with a huge amount of money, and I wonder if the price is going to be a little more expensive than originally expected, for who can predict how it is going to be 50 years in the future? The cost of the project does not even include costs for possible road and metro development. I do not accept that this is the basis of finding a solution for the lack of general housing in the cities, because since the construction of the area is crucial to the financing of the project, the cheap housing will probably only be built after the 75%. More expensive homes are finished, and they'll probably be ready in 50 years. It is about making money precisely because it is an expensive project, and I find it hard to believe that general housing will be given priority or benefit for a very long time. Moreover, population growth has begun to fall in Copenhagen, so it cannot legitimise this project. No one knows what needs for housing in Copenhagen in 50 years' time. The problem right now is a lack of general housing, which this project does not address. If it is to be taken seriously, housing must be built now. However, one could also look at the infrastructure and find existing options rather than aiming for expensive and cost-effective solutions for both nature and the environment as well as people. There is also a claim that Lynetteholmen will reduce car traffic, but it is extremely misleading. There will be no significant reduction in traffic and congestion in the city; on the contrary, there will be a sharp increase in several areas. Because even though it may seem strange to some, it turns out time and again that the more and better roads we have, the more cars we get. We should get the cars out of Copenhagen and not open up Pandora's box by expanding highways in and around the city. We have committed ourselves to a CO2 by 2030. Lynetteholmen is referred to as a necessity for climate protection in Copenhagen, but you can easily stormproof Copenhagen with much smaller and cheaper and more environmentally friendly solutions. The environmental costs of the project are far greater than the potential gains. In addition, the environmental impact report has been prepared by City & Port, which is the one responsible for the project and therefore also those who benefit from the project and therefore not independent. Blocking the King's Dive will have enormous environmental consequences for the surrounding marine environment, and it is not possible to reject the consequences on the basis of the environmental assessment carried out. The consequences for the shallow areas of Øresund and the Natura 2000 area at Saltholm are also understated in environmental assessments. There is no adequate analysis of the climate and environmental impact of the project. The Øresund is the best marine environment we have in Denmark, and it must be protected. The democratic process of this proposal is also quite wrong. The public has not been properly involved, and now this bill is being drowned through the Folketing with far too many uncertainties to actually call it safe. There are also huge problems in the construction phase. There is noise as a result of trucks. A noise increase of approx. 2 dB, and that is actually quite a lot in already noise-laden areas. I'm wondering if noise shielding is part of this project. Then there is the clarification of whether the earth is clean. If it is not clean, it will either cost a fortune to clean it, or it will mean that 35,000 people will live and 35,000 people will work in an area built on toxic soil. Free Greens cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505214820	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Niels Flemming Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505214824	Thank you very much. Now the rapporteur spoke a little about how many homes were needed in Copenhagen forward-looking, and has the rapporteur seen any of the statistics that Denmark's Statistics and Economic Administration have produced on the projection of the number of residents in the Copenhagen area towards just 2045?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505214844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505214844-2	I have not, but I have seen that the increase in population is decreasing, and the coronate here has also shown us that there are many more people who want to move to the countryside. So these are assumptions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505214901	Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505214902	Yes, these are assumptions when the Danish Economic Administration and Statistics make them. I can then inform you that it is 155,000 people until 2045 alone. So it must be relatively big mistakes they make if the rapporteur is to be right.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505214919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505214919-2	You could say that, but you could also ask what it looks like in 50 years' time. Denmark's Statistics may not be able to answer that question anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505214929	Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505214930	Thank you. I think I heard the rapporteur say that building Lynetteholm was the prerequisite for the economy of this project and part of the project. Where did the rapporteur come from? And then there was a follow-up argument that it is probably first the expensive housing, and then the cheaper housing may come, I would just appeal to you that when you make a speech in this Chamber and you have been elected for a party that once went to the polls that we should have a proper, democratic debate, you read the legislative proposals that are being put forward, here the construction law, and that you then portray it correctly from the parliamentary platform. Because the construction of Lynetteholm isn't part of the economy of this project.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505215018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505215019	Then I have to say that I have read it wrong, because I think I see in the comments and in the whole dyke work, which is indeed long and on many pages, that the figures of 25% appear precisely. and 75%, where it is proposed that they 25 per cent. is non-profit housing. That is why I believe that the most expensive homes will of course be sold first, because they generate revenue, because there is also a great deal of expenditure involved in setting up an island of this kind, which we have heard, and we do not know how much they actually are.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505215054	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505215055	But this project is financed by the fact that the land to be driven out there is paid to deposit in the landfill behind bouncy walls, behind dams, within properly defined areas. That's what's funding this project. And then we're not going to pretend that it's all sorts of other things that finance it. So little decency, even when we take the further process in committee and here in the Chamber, so that the citizens who will once take a good and thorough view of this will also be informed on a proper basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505215125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505215126	Now I wish I had the proposal in front of me so that I could point out exactly where it is, but unfortunately I do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505215134	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505215136	I would like to ask the rapporteur for the Free Greens: since there is a lot of construction in Copenhagen and it generates a lot of surplus land, is it so good for the climate that that land can be deposited close to that, inside Copenhagen, or would it be better for the climate if it were to be driven far away outside Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505215157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505215158	We cannot give a clear answer to that. However, the soil must be placed where it is best placed, but it is not in a natural area that we have in the Øresund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505215209	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505215210	You can give a hundred percent clear answer to that. That it is better for the climate to deposit the land close to the source of where the land arises than to drive it far away from Copenhagen, one can give a hundred percent unique answer to. Why does Mrs Susanne Zimmer answer by such superficiality or in an attempt to avoid answering a very specific question to which Mrs Susanne Zimmer is well aware of the answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505215233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505215234	I have in fact asked the Minister, in consultation, whether an analysis has been made of how to get rid of this land by other means, because of course you can get rid of the land by other means than driving it out into the Øresund. Furthermore, I have also heard the Socialist rapporteur say that a barge can bring in land from far away, so we are not just talking about land from the Copenhagen Centre.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505215301	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and then it is the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505215323	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the rapporteurs for the extremely positive statements made in the rapporteur's speeches. This bill is a first step • a first step towards making the principle agreement on Lynetteholm from 2018 between the state and the City of Copenhagen a reality. It is an agreement based on a broad majority, and it is also an agreement supported by a correspondingly broad majority in Copenhagen's citizens' representation. Political support is positive, because it signals a necessary foresight that we, as politicians, will have to have when it comes to Lynetteholm. When you have to build such a large and completely new peninsula in Copenhagen, it is something that goes far ahead in time. It is expected to take 3-31⁄2 decade to fill up the soil itself. Depending on the activity in the construction sector, it may go a little faster or a little slower, but we are talking about decades. I have such a pretty clear feeling of 30 years. 30 years is exactly the time that has passed since I moved from Copenhagen to South Jutland, where I live today, and I can say that a great deal has happened in Copenhagen during that period. You can almost say that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen and I have made a cultural change. Whether it is the South Jutlanders who are happiest for it, or whether it is the Copenhageners who are happiest for it, we must leave it unsolved, but nevertheless I can take a look at the perspective that is 30 years old and a great deal can happen at that time. Lynetteholm is a very long-term project, and that may also be the reason for some of the uncertainty that has affected the debate, not only here in the Assembly Chamber, but also the public debate. For it is both difficult and uncertain to try to look into a time that is so long. We know it from other construction projects as well. It could, for example, be done. be the Great Belt Bridge, where the debate was also marked by a fundamental premise that it was actually a little difficult to imagine such a future. Moreover, this also applies to some of the environmental perspectives, and it has to be said to them that some of the improvements made to the Great Belt Bridge would not be without us today. But there are good perspectives and a lot of foresight in Lynetteholm, and the project will help to ensure the future of Copenhagen, just as the Storebælt Bridge has future-proofed the connection between East and West Denmark. Initially, Lynetteholm contributes to stormproof Copenhagen from the north. Without the land filled, for example, there will be: We needed up to 800 million. kr. on a high dam between Refshale Island and Kronbønne at Nordhavn. It's just one place you'd have to spend an amount of that size. Lynetteholm is thus one of several pieces to secure Copenhagen against future storms and seawater increases, and Lynetteholm solves the need for handling surplus land from construction sites in Copenhagen. Today the trucks are driving to the ground depot in Nordhavn, which is about to be filled, and when the trucks are going to drive from the city's construction sites to Lynetteholmen instead, there will be some sections that are being relieved and where there will be less traffic, while others will get more traffic. In order to reduce the effects, a new road for cars is being built, and the City of Copenhagen is working to improve the safety of the other sections. However, I would like to stress that it is not the case that Lynetteholm will in itself create more transport needs. The transport needs are there, mainly because of the need to transport surplus land away from various construction projects in Copenhagen. The question is: where is it going and how is it going to be used? Today one can hardly imagine a capital city without the beautiful canals that are at Christianshavn, or without the bath guests on Islands Brygge's waterfront, but it is thought-provoking that both are the result of exactly the same type of filling as Lynetteholm. The government has presented a new infrastructure plan, it is a proposal called Denmark's future infrastructure plan 2035. This includes proposals to build the infrastructure needed to develop both Refshaleøen and Lynetteholm in the long term, including metro connection and a road link from Nordhavn, and it must of course also be the case that there are good bicycle connections. We are in the process of negotiating a new infrastructure plan, and if we can get Parliament's support for it, then the next step is to launch thorough environmental studies on infrastructure. If a political majority feels the government's proposals, then environmental studies of metro and eastern Ringvej can be carried out from next year. This will also include what is called cumulative effects, i.e. comparing both the plant about Lynetteholm and the other decisions. The overall environmental effects of the projects being planned will therefore be examined. However, as I have said, this requires only a political decision in the current negotiations. In connection with the environmental assessment of Lynetteholm, there have been several public consultations. City & Port has also held a number of meetings with stakeholders and citizens, and the company has been thoroughly informed about the construction project. There has been some mention of the project at all, and I think that is fundamentally positive. I think it was the alternative that made it sound as if there had been only one citizens' meeting, but there have been 35 events where citizens have been able to express their views. Now the basis is in place for a political decision on the construction of Lynetteholm, and if a majority in the Folketing decides to initiate environmental assessments of the infrastructure, there will also be a focus on public consultations and dialogue with stakeholders and citizens, and later there will be a corresponding focus on citizen involvement in relation to future issues. It is acting, for example. on urban development, culture, environment, etc., when the planning process arrives. But I wonder whether it would also be the case that some of the residents who will move to Lynetteholm in the future would actually like some of the decisions that will deal with their possible accommodation not necessarily to be taken today. Lynetteholm is a major project, a long-term project, and it will take decades to build, and the project solves both some of the challenges that we are committed to finding solutions to soon, storm flood protection of Copenhagen and management of surplus land, and then there are also some perspectives in the project. These are opportunities, and it is the future of a future with a capital that continues to evolve, a capital with room for all income groups, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen rightly pointed out that families with children, families with the elderly, students and young people. There have been a number of comments, by the way. The left has raised the question of yachts, and in relation to yachts there has been a fairly thorough involvement in relation to the work. It is clear that what is primarily concerned with safety and, above all, ensuring that the Lynette race can be closed without endangering safety at sea. In addition, it will also be the case that a number of precautions will be taken to ensure that this is taken into account. In addition, a system of curfews for pleasure craft will also be set up so that pleasure craft can dock safely and also that there will be waiting places on both sides of the Crown. The Danish People's Party has raised an important question in the debate, namely how much it costs. And that is a very good question. I think that's what Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby particularly highlighted, was what it costs in the end when you have to look at it all, but I think it is worth it for those who had to keep up, to stress that there is a pretty precise price of what it costs to build the Lynetteholm itself, and it is described in the bill, namely 2.5 billion. kr., of which there are 400 million. kr. to a coastal landscape and included a 25 per cent reserve. So there is a price on the island itself, and it is worth emphasising that funding for it comes from land landfill income, and in addition there is also a guarantee from the City of Copenhagen of 400 million. kr. Then there were some questions about access to justice and other matters to which we will, of course, have to answer in committee. In addition, there was also a question of climate protection, i.e. whether there is climate protection in this process, and it has to be said that this is very much taken into account, i.e. that there is also climate protection. It is clear that a precondition for achieving the northern climate protection is that a lock-off, a lock-gate, is also being made. Such a lock gate makes no sense until there is a Lynetteholm to put it on. That would be like building a door without having the house to put the door in. It can therefore be said that it is also, of course, a prerequisite for establishing it. I would like to say to the SF that I will, of course, endeavour to resolve all the concerns that have been raised. I see this as being quite natural we spend intensive time securing, and I perceive the view of being at the table to exert influence as being a constructive expression, and I will of course ensure that that desire is respected. The Enhedslisten raised the question of the salami method, which has nothing to do with pepperonipizza, but it is a concept which is used and which is also called slicing. And I have to say that I have indeed answered committee questions No. 163 in writing, and here I have also indicated that I do not believe it is possible to carry out an environmental assessment of a project on which no political decision has been taken. But we must also bear in mind that the salami method is based on the assumption that by cutting something up we should be able to avoid assessing things in a whole and, as I have said, there is nothing else I could dream of but following the guidelines and the rules completely and completely. The alternative has put forward the view that this decision should, as it were, have been carried out. I must therefore remind you that the draft law was announced at the beginning of this assembly. The legislative proposal appeared in the legislative catalogue, and it also appeared that it would be tabled and discussed in this spring, so it is certainly not possible to claim that we have concealed it in any way whatsoever, on the contrary, and that is, in fact, a clear consequence of the decision in principle. As I have said, 35 citizens' meetings have been held and, in addition, it has to be said that if this were a great secret, there would hardly have been so many hearings. It hasn't gone completely unnoticed. The Conservative rapporteur made a point which we must say, however, is one of the unknown areas which has not yet been clearly examined. It is not about the environment, it is about the archaeological studies, and, as we know, it is always one of the unknown ones when you make works, because wherever in the kingdom you put a spade in the ground, the risk that you encounter something of particular archaeological importance is always present. We must say this, of course, is one of the elements which is unknown, but which must also be looked into. In the further work of the committee I will, of course, do everything I can to answer all the questions that may come up. I can tell from today's debate that there will be plenty of them, and I will ensure that we answer them timelyly and, if there is a need for further, I and my ministry will of course make us available.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505220801	Thank you. There will be a few questions to answer in the first place. First of all, it is Mrs Susanne Zimmer who has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505220808	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister. Is it possible to get some noise measurements on what the noise will be like after you start transporting landfill land to Lynetteholmen through the various streets, that is, as it looks now in terms of what it will look like when it starts? Will it be possible to make a concrete statement on how things are going to go so that residents can see what they are going to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505220839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505220841	A number of analyses have been carried out. There are some places where there is an impact; there is something where you get more traffic, other places you get less traffic. What is a little important to remember in this context is that it is not the case that, overall, there will be more traffic with trucks in Copenhagen. It is only a question of where traffic is going. Therefore, there is also an opportunity for the City of Copenhagen to take various steps in this regard, and it is also the City of Copenhagen as a road authority that has the opportunity to uncover this area. So it can be said that in relation to the construction law it is perhaps not so important, but in relation to the concrete implementation, which is of course located at the City & Port of Copenhagen, and thus also the Citizens' Representation, it would be quite obvious to clarify some of the elements in the further process.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505220943	Thank you. Does Mrs Susanne Zimmer wish to speak again? Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505220945	Thank you. I take that as a confirmation that it will be possible at some point to assess where there are pluses and minuses, because it is possible that there are also minuses. But compared to CO2, and I think that's really important to see if we can achieve our 70-percent reduction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505221020	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505221021	Of course, we also want to make a cover-up of it. I have so little doubt as to whether this is related to land transport or whether it is related to the overall project. Mrs Susanne Zimmer has just to put a written question on this. Of course, we will see to it that this is unveiled, but I also think it is worth emphasising here again that it is not the case that the installation of Lynetteholmen creates the land transports; they are there, whether or not Lynetteholmen is built.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505221056	Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505221057	Thank you. When the Øresund connection was made, it was a requirement not to reduce the flow of salty seawater. Therefore, a compensation excavation of 6 million had to be carried out. m3 seabed. Skåne Län, in their response to the consultation, has criticised or at least has problematized the consequences of a small influx of salt water into the Baltic Sea. In this connection, an Espoo hearing has been conducted with the Swedes. It can be said that a small influx of salt water and an impact on the Baltic Sea also affect Poland, Germany, Finland and so on. Why have Espoo consultations not been carried out with the other countries around the Baltic Sea?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505221140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505221140-2	It is true that on the Swedish side there has been some concern about some of the environmental impacts. I also know that discussions are taking place in this regard at official level. From the Danish side it is the Danish Traffic Authority and the Danish Environmental Protection Agency that participate, and then there are the Swedish authorities. Two meetings have been held for the time being. What we have to bear in mind is that what is happening because of climate change is that water flow is continuously increasing. And that is also one of the reasons why water can present some challenges. Therefore, it may have the effect that the acceleration that is going to happen may be deaccelerated, but it is not the case that one will have a less water flow. Everything else will just come an increasing flow of water through the Øresund due to climate change.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505221241	Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505221242	Now I'm not a biologist or a chemist, but only a simple peasant from Jutland. But it can be said that if there is more water, the salt concentration in the water will also be reduced. My second question, however, is whether the Minister has discussed Lynetteholmen in HELCOM cooperation, which is also precisely about protecting the environment in the Baltic Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505221303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505221305	I am aware that there have been no representations in relation to my ministry, but I am happy to examine whether there should have been. We have a good tradition of working with our Swedish neighbours, and the experience from the Øresund connection is also that it was a project that was a great uncertainty and concern about, but which ended up giving a clear environmental benefit to the Øresund when it was finished.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505221334	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505221335	Now the Minister says that the alternative claims that there has been only one public meeting. After all, access has been sought to see how many meetings there have been and access to documents shows that there have been 28 meetings with organisations, local departments, sailing clubs, etc. We're talking about a project worth 80 billion. kr., where 80 million are to be moved. It's gotta run for 30-35 years, and then you're gonna do one open public meeting. Does the Minister consider this to be a broad dialogue, bearing in mind how much it will affect Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505221435	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505221436	These are some more citizens' meetings than were held when my house was expropriated due to a motorway facility in South Jutland. What has been enlightened to me is that, in addition to the arrangement with TV 2/Lorry, as Mr. Torsten Gejl mentions, has been 35 different citizens' meetings, including meetings with Amager Vest Local Committee, special citizens' meetings with the recording of three films that were posted online. So the figure that has been given to me is 35 in addition to the meeting that Mr. Torsten Gejl mentions, as TV 2/Lorry arranged.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505221516	Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505221517	However, the Minister considers that one open citizens' meeting, in addition to a series of meetings with local committees, associations and small organisations, when it comes to a project at the cost of 80 billion. kr., which the Copenhageners will have to endure with the expansion of the next 30 years, and where 80 million. to land to be put in the Øresund, is sufficient for the Copenhageners to have any chance of discussing this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210505221550	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505221551	Sir. Torsten Gejl says it'll cost 80 billion. kr. With regard to the installation of Lynetteholm, which we are discussing in the Parliamentary Chamber today, I hope Mr. Torsten Gejl is talking about a construction sum of 2.5 billion. DKK, not 80 billion. kr. On the question of what Lynetteholm, when it has been completed, is to be used for, is something that must be the subject of a large number of debates and dialogues and, as I indicated, it is the case that environmental studies of the metro and the Eastern Ringvej are to be initiated, so citizens will also be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505221632	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210505221647	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 6 May 2021, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
