ParlaMint-DK_20211123130018	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Marie Bjerre (V) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 47 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the advance of the phasing-out of coal from Nordjyllandsværket to 2025). Alex Ahrendtsen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 48 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on citizens' right to demand binding municipal referendums). Pia Kjærsgaard (DF) etc.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 49 (Proposal for a resolution on the amendment of the statute for regional and local authorities). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter stating that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 17 November 2021, it was decided that the responsibility for various tasks under the Common State Facility Management Solution relating to the Security of Supply Agency was transferred from the Minister of Justice to the Minister of Transport. The announcement will appear in the Parliamentary Times. According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 17 November 2021 provides that the responsibility for all tasks under the Common State Facility management solution, including tasks relating to canteen and meeting catering, cleaning, internal service, internal maintenance, security, outdoors and waste management, as well as facility management in the form of procurement, procurement, supply and contract management relating to the Security of Supply Board, is transferred from the Minister of Justice to the Minister of Transport per year. 18 November 2021. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Mette Frederiksen
ParlaMint-DK_20211123130126	Jacob Mark (SF) has applied for leave from 23 November 2021, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. Point 3 (a) while Stinus Lindgreen (RV) applied for leave from 6 December 2021, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as applied for and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123130152	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the Second Deputy of the Socialist People's Party in the Greater District of Zealand, Jan Bjergskov Larsen, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 23 November 2021 on the occasion of Jacob Mark's leave. It should be noted that the first deputy did not wish to take up his duties. I have also received the recommendation that the first deputy for the Radical Left in the Copenhagen Omregns Storkreds, Abbas Razvi, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 6 December 2021 on the occasion of Stinus Lindgreen's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123130227	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour of 103 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG and ALT), against which 0 abstained 0. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 103 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123130306	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123130311	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 93 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, LA, FG and ALT) voted against 9 (KF and NB), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123130349	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123130353	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 93 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, KF, NB, LA and FG) voted against 9 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123130423	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123130429	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 101 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG and ALT), against 2 (NB), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123130501	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123130507	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 89 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG and ALT) voted against 13 (DF and NB), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123130541	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123130547	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 80 votes (S, V, DF, SF, KF and LA), against 23 votes (RV, EL, NB, FG, ALT and 1 (SF) (by mistake)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123130619	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123130624	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 99 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG and ALT), against 4 (NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123130658	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123130704	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 103 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG and ALT), against which 0 abstained 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123130737	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123130802	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123130830	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123130840	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of the CF). They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123130900	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123130907	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (DF), joined by a majority (the other committee), that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? Thus, the division of the legislative proposal into two legislative proposals has been adopted. The draft law referred to in A is then put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the Tax Control Act and the law on equations] (Competence for approval of the information document, etc., relaxation of the requirement for the preparation of transfer pricing documentation in certain purely Danish situations, adjustment of the penal provision on the submission of country-by-country reports, taxation of rental income by rental of full-year residences, and approval of small patient associations for rare diseases and general-purpose associations, etc.).]: Here I ask whether there is a request for a vote on Amendment No. Amendment No 2 and Amendment No 3 were adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 4 of a minority (DF), elected by a majority (other committee), or on Amendment No 4. 5, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. The bill referred to in B is then voted on [Proposal for a Law amending the Tax Control Act (Registering in foreign currency of certain foreign hydrocarbon tax payers).President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 6 of a minority (DF), elected by a majority (other committee)? It's agreed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123131012	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. And I forgot to tell you that this bill is from the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123131025	Then I should like to ask whether there is a request for a vote on Amendment No. 1 to 5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 6 of a minority (ALT) and voting is possible. I think it's okay now. In any case, the vote will end. in favour of 3 (FG and ALT), against 98 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 7 - Accession to the Committee? It is not wanted, and that is why it has been adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123131126	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123131152	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123131158	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2 elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123131224	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123131230	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2 elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123131252	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123131258	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (SF) joined by a minority (EL and FG) and can be voted on. The vote will be taken at the end In favour 20 (SF, EL, FG and ALT) voted against 82 (S, V, DF, RV, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2-4 elected by a majority? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123131429	Now I think there is time to leave the Chamber so that we can have the calm that a debate requires, and that is why I assume that those who are left are those who want to take part in the negotiations. The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123131456	Thank you, President. It is not unusual for us to deal urgently with legislative proposals here in the Folketing in these coronatides, but the reason for this urgent procedure in the area of the Ministry of Transport is something unusual. The Ministry of Transport has become aware that, in November 2020, when the notice of inspection was re-issued, the Agency has repealed the transitional regime introduced on 30 June 2020, according to which vehicles not covered by the type-approval regulations could be approved for registration purposes in accordance with the rules of the relevant visual notice. In practice, this means that the approvals on registration of approx. 16,000 vehicles carried out in the period since 1 January 2021 have been made on the basis of statutory regulations which are not governed by law. Therefore, the content of this draft law is firstly to re-establish the legal basis for re-issue of the rules on national registration-vision approvals as soon as possible; secondly, the legislative proposal aims to ensure that registration-visions carried out by vehicles from 1 January 2021 are maintained, i.e. In accordance with their content as from the date of entry into force of this bill, and finally, the purpose of the draft law is to make owners of the vehicles concerned, in fiscal terms, as if, at the time of the tax administration's decision or management activity, a valid registration view of the vehicle had been carried out. There is a need for the legislative proposal to be dealt with urgently so that vehicle owners can have their vehicles approved as soon as possible, inter alia. in order to avoid increasing it for the industry and private individuals. I can read in the Ekstrabladet today about a driving instructor who's gotten in trouble waiting for this law to be passed so she can get her car sighted and get out on the roads and teach driving students and make money on it. It is, of course, very, very regrettable that there are individuals and traders who have got into a mess in these weeks when we are awaiting the adoption of this bill. I hope that all parties will work decisively and constructively to ensure that we can adopt this bill at the third reading on Thursday 25 November, so that the polls can revisit and approve non-type approved vehicles. The Social Democratic Party can support the bill and will invest in a quick and objective approach to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123131724	Thank you to the rapporteur. There does not seem to be any brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123131734	Thank you for that, President. As my Socialist colleague has explained very well, this is a matter of reintroducing the legal basis for carrying out vehicle approvals and registration audits. For it is so that since New Year's there has not really been a legal home because of an error that has occurred in the Danish Trade Administration. And it is now the case that when a mistake is discovered, it is a matter of getting it corrected as soon as possible, and that is what we are doing here with this legislative procedure. The Left, of course, is critical of the fact that so much time had to be allowed before mistakes were discovered, because when such a serious mistake occurs, it helps to insecurity among the citizens. However, I have also noted that the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Transport have taken steps to ensure that in future there will be better quality assurance of the rules being issued. We welcome that, of course. I also note from the hearing answers that it is a question of lightning answers that technical consultants for road transport find that the rules for this whole area are too incalculable. They want more clear rules on the technical rules applicable to each type of vehicle. And I hope that the Minister will listen to this, so that there will be more simplicity in the rules that apply to this area. With these comments, however, the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123131900	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123131916	Thank you, sir. President. Well, it is not every day that we here in the Danish Parliament are dealing with legislative proposals, which are supposed to make sure that what should have been the legal basis for, and which has been practiced for quite a long time, soon a year, is also legal in relation to the type of approval that has been under the Danish Trade Authority. It is, of course, with regard to this viewing notice that unfortunately there has not really been symbiosis. But, of course, we must clear up the disputes when they are there. This isn't something I have the impression of the government or the Bureau of Trade has done of bad will. We believe that this has been done with a good heart, but it does not change the fact that there are in fact a number of both citizens and companies who have experienced getting caught up in the fact that their special vehicles were not covered by the type-approval regulations. We are now getting this in place as quickly as possible after we, at least as an opposition, have been made aware that there was this dissertation. It is, of course, a pity, and it is something that should have been sorted out in the past, but it does not change the fact that, after all, there is now a response, and that we here in the Danish Parliament show a good understanding of it and also get it treated as quickly as it can possibly be done so that these companies do not have to experience that they almost break laws by using their vehicles, and so those who have invested in new vehicles that have not been able to get license plates on etc. Because of this dispute, now can be allowed to continue with their business. So, of course, the Danish People's Party also supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123132112	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123132121	The thing about doing things without a legal home, I think we all eventually agree is a really bad idea, so of course SF supports the bill to re-establish the legal basis for the approval of vehicles not covered by the type-approval regulations. Of course, we must also ensure as soon as possible the rights of the owners who have affected vehicles and who are currently in possession of an invalid authorisation. That is why we are in favour of the whole proposal. It's a good thing we're gonna deal with this. I'm thinking there's gotta be a stupid ticket for the Federal Services Department for this little accident, but it could happen. On the other hand, I would like the Minister of Transport to clarify, for the sake of good order, why it is necessary to have a legal basis rather than just a decree. It's just so everyone is aware of it, but otherwise there's full support from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123132218	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that means that we go further in the rapporteur's line. Now it's sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123132227	Like the previous rapporteurs, the Radical Left supports this urgent legislative proposal, and we do not believe that there is any evidence that there should have been bad will anywhere. So there has been a mistake, and we are correcting it, and so is the Radical Left's support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123132242	Thank you. There are no brief comments here either, and that means that we have now reached Mr Beazley's position. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123132254	Yeah, this is something worse, but I guess there's nothing else to say to it but ups and then get the bugs straightened out at a hell of a hurry. That's what we're doing, so Enhedslisten supports this bill. We also support the partial emergency procedure that has been put in place so that we do not have a whole lot that has got stuck and more or less drives around illegally in their vehicles. So there's support from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123132321	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123132327	Thank you very much. Since we are talking here about an area where there are both private operators who have approved vehicles, but also an industry that is dependent on being able to obtain approved vehicles for commercial and production purposes, we think it is a good idea to ensure that the legal state is restored as soon as possible. And that is what it is doing with this urgent legislative proposal. So I see no reason to drag it any further by saying that Conservatives vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123132352	Thank you. And since there are no brief comments, we move on to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123132408	I would also like to be brief and say that New Citizens support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123132413	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123132420	The Liberal Alliance is in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123132425	Thank you. I do not see any more rapporteurs wishing to speak. That's why it's the Minister of Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123132438	First of all, thank you very much for the constructive approach taken by all rapporteurs in relation to the draft law, both to the substantive content of the legislative proposal itself, but also to the urgency of the draft law as soon as possible. As you know, this is a really unfortunate mistake that has been made in the Danish Trade Administration and which is the reason for this case. Those of you who participated in the technical review last week, when the Danish Trade Agency was here to give presentations, will also know that one was very regrettable there, and so has the press release that has been issued. I can also confirm that an increase in quality assurance, as several rapporteurs have said in this regard, is being ensured by the works council. Now that we have to do this legal procedure, it is to ensure that there is a real hang-up in relation to being able to issue the necessary notices, and thus I can say to answer Mrs Berthelsen Valentina's question: there is therefore no legal basis to do so. It would have been obvious to say: could not the announcement have just been reissued? But you can't do that when there isn't a statute here, and then the approach was one of two possible: the question was, if you should have done an ordinary legal procedure with a general deadline of 30 days then there were some who could potentially have got stuck in that context. Moreover, it has also been examined whether it was possible to give effect to the law from the date of its submission. This was assessed, among other things. The Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Justice were therefore not possible either, and that is why we have ended up with this having its own independent emergency legal procedure. And, as I said, thank you for the kindness that has been shown in that it is possible to do so. This is an area which has been mentioned in the debate and in which it is private vehicle owners who have approved vehicles, but it is also an industry which is dependent on being able to obtain approved vehicles for commercial and production purposes and which is therefore very affected by the lack of rules. In short, I can say that earlier this autumn, the Ministry of Transport became aware that, by mistake, the Administrative Authority interrupted the transitional arrangements for the approval of registration audits of vehicles not covered by the type approval regulations in the law on vision, and the specific challenge here is therefore that since 1 January of this year there has been no legal basis for the rules laid down in the notice on national vehicle approvals or registration sights. However, throughout the year the visual centres have carried out registration audits as if the rules had been valid, as no one has been aware of the invalid rules until this autumn. This is about approx. 16,000 completed registration-vision approvals. The vehicle owners have therefore authorised their vehicles to drive on the roads. The positive thing is, therefore, that it has not, as such, affected anyone that the rules have not been formally valid. That is why they still need to be corrected. In the Ministry of Transport, therefore, the focus has been on having quickly examined whether the invalid registration system has had a burdensome effect on vehicle owners or the industry. As is also apparent from the observations made by the draft law, there are a number of penalties which can be put into effect if the rules on registration are not complied with. It could, for example, be done. be registration plates, fines, etc. We know for a fact that the Danish Transport Authority has not made any burdensome decisions against vehicle owners under these rules this year. Other authorities could be the police and the prosecutor are also in full swing to identify any burdensome decisions in order to be able to have them cancelled. It is the overall preliminary assessment that the burden of the invalid rules on vehicle owners and the profession has been minimal. The draft law restores the legal basis for the re-issue of rules in the notice of inspection and the relevant registration audits, so that the sighting companies can start to approve vehicles as soon as possible. In addition, the draft law ensures that the registration checks already carried out this year, i.e. more than 16,000, are maintained as valid and that any subsequent decisions made on the basis of a valid registration check could, for example, be carried out. be subject to the legislation of the Ministry of Taxation and will also be valid. I look forward to further consideration here in the Danish Parliament and, of course, I am also available to answer any questions that may be asked, just as the Ministry of Transport and the Færdselsstyrelsen are ready to respond quickly to any questions that the committee may have before the second and third readings here later this week. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123132939	There are no requests for short remarks, and we can therefore thank the Minister for Transport. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Let me make sure there's a minister here. Is the minister in the back? It is a little late, but it was good that the Minister came so that we did not have to interrupt the sitting.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123133029	The debate is open. Sir. Henrik Møller, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123133043	Thank you, President. Unfortunately, the Coronasmitte has once again become an unwelcome guest in our society, and I think that today the tripartite agreement is very clear about this. It can be said that if it is the case that we still have to have our society open and we need to have our health intact, we need to look at what possible steps we can take to contain the infection. It is the case that on 12 November the government, FH and DA concluded another tripartite agreement to allow companies to demand coronapas from employees. As part of this tripartite agreement, the parties also sent a clear call for us in the Folketing to reinstate the law which allowed employers to require employees to be coronated. Of course, we support this recommendation in the Social Democratic Party. Just as coronapas and coronatest can be an effective tool to contain the infection, it also helps to create more safety at work, including for those workers who are concerned about being exposed to the risk of infection while doing their job. With the tripartite agreement, it is agreed that it is important for employers to have the right tools to deal with the growing spread of infection in society and in jobs, so that employees can go safely to work and companies can continue operations unhindered. It is our aim to keep the activity in society going without compromising the health of the Danes, but this again presupposes that there are tools and measures that can be used locally. That is why we also support in the Social Democratic Party the possibility for employers to be able to demand that employees show coronapas, which must be accessed by either vaccination, past disease cycles with covid-19 or negative test results. We also support the possibility for employers to be able to require tests on employees. I think it is important to stress that this is not a requirement, but an opportunity that we are giving to companies, but also to the employees who are in the companies. And it is clear that I also think that here in the Folketing I have to say that we must send a clear and clear signal to the Danes who are still not vaccinated: Go down and get vaccinated, do it for your own sake, for your parents' sake, for your grandparents' sake, for your friends or girlfriends. Because if we are to be able to return to a normal society without having to have restrictions and potential decommissionings every year as we approach wintertime, it requires even more people to be vaccinated. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123133331	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123133332	Thank you very much. And thank you for your statement. That is clear from Paragraph 1 (1). 5 that the Minister of Employment may lay down rules as to what is meant by a coronapas..... Does this mean that the Minister for Employment is empowered to define a coronapa in such a way that, for example, one is entitled to have a coronapa? can only get a coronapa if you have been vaccinated and have produced antibodies and that, for example, A negative test isn't good enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123133407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123133408	I think I mentioned at the beginning of my speech that it was the whole palette, namely that it was coronatest, immunity, but that it could also be ordinary testing, which was part of the corona Pass.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123133424	Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123133425	So we can be 100% sure this bill doesn't give the Minister for Employment the authority to withdraw the negative tests from the corona pass?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123133436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123133437	That is certainly not the case with me, but I would now like to give the Minister the opportunity to reply when it comes to the Minister's turn.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123133446	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks, which means that we can move on to Mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123133458	Corona is once again above us in society, and we must do everything we can to prevent parts of the economy from shutting down again and the activity in society drossed down. That is why I am very pleased that the social partners have come together to find a solution that responds to this. For the Left, it is important that we can maintain growth and prosperity and can also do so during a new corona wave. Fortunately, the infection here is still on a lower blouse, we are in a different situation than we did a year ago, and fortunately a large part of the Danes have been vaccinated. At the same time, with this bill, we have the opportunity to meet the business community's desire for a coronapass. In this way, we can continue to maintain the activity in society without contributing to further infection among employees. The introduction of the possibility for companies to demand coronapas also means that we have to work on a number of questions in committee on how to implement the injunction in concrete terms in the individual company, and in this context the Left will also ask the Minister a number of questions in committee in order to unfold these ambiguities. This is among other things. the question of the legal status of foreign employees in relation to the law, we need clarification because companies still need international labour as well, and we need to clarify the possibility of using CE-approved self-testing locally as part of the tools to reduce the infection locally. And then we'll have to, as sir. Torsten Gejl mentioned, had clarified and be precise and sharp on what it is meant by a coronapas: What should it contain? I also expect that a number of questions will be asked during the committee procedure in order to clarify it so that there can be no doubt about it. There is also the desire to show a coronapa, the discussion that, when you show it, you can expect that you have also been tested and that you have not shown a coronapa that does not contain anything about tests, because it may subsequently mean that you have to spend many days being tested in order to get a valid coronapas. We need to clarify this in the committee procedure, and I look forward to it, but basically the Left supports the intentions of the draft law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123133750	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which means that we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123133810	Thank you for that, President. One might almost say that it is natural for this bill to come, with the increase in infection at national level. Of course, it's a little different, depending on where in the country it is. It is probably especially in the big cities that it is quite wrong, but there are increasing levels of infection everywhere, which is why it is of course also natural for employers to look at: How is the situation for us with our employees that we can risk someone entering the workplace who is infected without us knowing it or without them being tested so that they infect others who are at work? Therefore, what employers want is, of course, that they want to ensure that they can be allowed to say to their employees: you must have a coronapass; you must be tested. And we have to point out that this isn't about requiring vaccination. But then, you get a coronapa if you are vaccinated or immune or have had a regular quick test or a PCR test then you get a coronapas. Of course we have to make sure we don't infect others. I would be sorry if you had been infected and went to a company and then infected many others because you wouldn't take it seriously. However, as I said, it is voluntary for employers to use, and not all employers will do so either. But this also means that if employers have migrant workers, foreign service providers, then they can also be required to be tested before starting work. And that's a good thing. In the Danish People's Party, of course, we would have liked them to have been tested before they crossed the border, as it has been in the past, but there I have been told that this is another legislation we are going to look at in that case. But now we have to see how it develops. It is also the case that if some people do not want to be tested, it is the ordinary employment rules that will enter into force in this respect. And, of course, it is a serious matter if you are expelled from your workplace or, at worst, are dismissed. But this is something that lies in the rules of labour law, which both employers and employees agree with and work under. These are not rules that we, as such, are laying down with this legislation. These are rules that are already in place. Then there's something I think is a little weird, but I just couldn't catch. This applies until 11 December, and does this mean that if it is to be extended, new legislation will have to be introduced, or can the Epidemics Committee say that this law will be extended? The Minister may answer that question when the Minister comes up here, because it is worth knowing whether we are going to do so again on 11 December is not very far off in the future. But, as I said, we in the Danish People's Party think it is okay. with this law, and we can vote for the bill. Of course, we must be aware that this does not cause more problems than it is good. And then you have to remember that it's not something about there being a vaccine forced into this. It has nothing to do with it; it is simply a question of testing, which we have had all year, when we had to do something we also have to be tested to get into the workplace if the employer requires it. It is not all employers who would say that you need to test. This, of course, also has something to do with how the workplace is arranged. The last time we saw a large spread of infection, among other things. Abattoirs, where there were suddenly a great many infected farms in Ringsted and also elsewhere and where production had to be closed down because of it. There are also foreign customers who say that they will not buy the product if they are not sure that people working with it are corona-free. So there are many things that need to be taken into account. But we say yes to the proposal. I should also like to ask the Minister just to explain this possibility of an extension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123134250	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which means that we move on to Mrs Halime Oguz, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123134314	Thank you, President. For the record, I would like to start by saying that I am not an employment rapporteur. This is my colleague, sir. Karsten Hønge, who unfortunately has no opportunity to be here himself. This bill translates into a tripartite agreement and is about giving employers the opportunity to impose on employees the display of coronapas as long as the covid-19 is categorized as a social-critical disease. In addition, the rules allowing employers to require employees to be tested for covid-19 and to be informed of the results of the test, which also applied in the past, are reinstated. SF supports the bill, but at the same time we are aware of the concern in HK's consultation response regarding the admissibility criterion for employees who fully work at home. We have therefore asked a number of written questions, and we hope that in answering them the Minister will reassure us that the intention of this bill is, of course, that common sense should continue to apply. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123134418	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123134428	Thank you very much, President. This bill translates into a tripartite agreement between the social partners and the government. It is an agreement that allows employers to demand coronapas from their employees. This creates security in the labour market, both among employers, who do not have to fear that companies will shut down to the same extent as they do, and that it will have negative consequences for their turnover, but also a security for employees who have to go to work, that they do not have to fear that other colleagues will come in and be infected. It is likely that not all employers will make use of this option. It's just an option. In the Radical Left, we support this bill. Like other parties, we also have a number of things that need to be clarified, among others. One thing, like Mr. Torsten Gejl traveled before, namely how a coronapas should be understood. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123134534	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further. Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123134544	Thank you. When the corona gets back, we have to do something, and the tripartite agreement explicitly states that there is a connection between this law and then the definition of covid-19 as a social-critical disease. We had a similar law that expired three months ago, and I had fun comparing the two laws, and there I must admit that I attached myself to the fact that section 2 of the old law said, "If it is factually justified." It's dropped out in section 2 of this law. But then I have been reassured by the fact that Section 3 states that an employer can only impose a test on an employee if it is objectively justified. So account has been taken of the fact that there has to be an objective justification, and this is, of course, linked to the fact that there may be home workplaces or people working individually outdoors, or similar things that make it pointless to require a coronapass or a test. But it is probably for the time being, and the Minister can confirm that this is the case. Then I would say that the law runs until 11 December, but under special conditions the Minister can then postpone the repeal of the law, but at most until 31 December 2022, and there I suppose that the special circumstances alone mean that it is, as long as the covid-19 is classified as a social-critical disease. And I would very much like to ask the Minister to confirm that this is how the special circumstances are to be understood. But Enhedslisten supports the proposal. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). There is one more small thing, and that is that if you are to comfort the employees completely and emphatically, you must also ask the employer to show a coronatest.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123134731	Thank you. Then the rapporteur was finished and then passed on to the Conservatives. Niels Flemming Hansen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123134737	Thank you, and so uplifted. It is clear that we must ensure as much as we can now against further decommissioning, and it is not too much to demand that a company has the opportunity to check its employees for whether they should have this terrible disease. It is important for companies both to protect the other employees, but of course also their customers against the corona. Today's trialogue talks also support this proposal with this agreement, and the only comment I have to make on this is, in addition to what has been said, in relation to this self-esteem, that is to say, if you are going to have the opportunity to do so. One imagines that two fitters are going out, one has been tested and the other has not been tested, and then one of them can take a quick self-test, and there I just think that we should have some sort of four-eye system on it, so that one ensures that it is the right employee who has taken a self-test. But otherwise Conservatives can back the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123134845	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123134856	Thank you. The employer's job is to make the workplace work and make the company thrive. To this end, the employer may require all kinds of documentation from his employees: a clean criminal record, a diploma, a driving licence, and now also with this law a coronapas. This can be achieved either by being vaccinated, by having had the disease or by being tested corona negative. We see no fundamental challenge with the employer being able to demand it here. On the contrary, we see it as an obvious necessity in certain functions. If, for example, the employer: With regard to home care in the elderly, it is quite natural to demand a green coronapass from the employees. This applies regardless of whether the employer is local or private. If you work in health care, in public or in private, it is quite obvious that you have to be able to demand a coronapass. If you are in a special service profession where you are dealing with many people and with many customers, it is quite obvious that you can offer the confidence of the customers that the employees have a green coronapas. If you work in the food industry, then it is quite obvious that there should be no corona virus in the food that people buy and eat. In other workplaces you can have a desire to keep all employees at work, so they should not lie down sick, and therefore have a wish that the employees who show up have a coronapas so that they do not infect the rest of the staff. So we're voting for this bill. You can think about why we really have to let this happen all the time. I mean, why aren't employers just allowed to do that? Why should we temporarily allow you to ask for this evidence that you do not bring infection into the workplace? When we accept that employers can demand all possible other documentation, why should they not be able to demand this permanently if they so wish? So for these reasons, we are voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123135131	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That means we've come to Mr. Knox. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123135140	Thank you. In the alternative, we also think that this is roughly the same thing that has been introduced before. However, we think that the Enhedslisten's comment that employers should also be able to show such a coronapas is good. But there's one thing we need to get ready before we find out what we're voting for, and that's this § 1 paragraph. 5, which states that the Minister for Employment can lay down rules on what is meant by a coronapas. As it says, we have some doubts as to whether this means that, for example, the Minister for Employment. can make rules that a coronapas consists only of vaccination and antibodies and not that you can also get a coronapas if you have a negative test. We must at least ensure that that is not what we are talking about before we finally do what we vote in the alternative. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123135246	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Does Mrs Susanne Zimmer wish to speak? Here you go, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123135259	In fact, in the Free Greens, we do not think that we should see corona as a social-critical disease at this stage. We get a whole lot of numbers slammed in the head, and those numbers contain people who have been hospitalized with something else. We can't see from the numbers if people have actually been sick. What is actually interesting is how many people have actually been hospitalized and how many are in intensive care and how many are really affected by this. In the first wave of the last corona crisis before the corona vaccination, we could see that there were actually fewer deaths than there would otherwise have been. During the period when we had the vaccine, there have been no fewer deaths than there were before. That is why we have an inventory problem which creates a mood that may be a little more problematic than it needs to be. In the Free Greens, we recognise that at some point we can come to a situation where we should declare corona to be critical of society, but not at this stage. After all, there are also vaccine researchers who say that we can run into an influenza epidemic which is actually getting worse than the corona epidemic, and should we also declare it critical of society? What we should really be looking at is getting the health care system up and running. It has been subject to 2-percent savings year after year, and now it is also affected by the fact that there have been problems here in relation to wage negotiations that cause problems in getting people employed and there are people fleeing health care. That is why this is actually the really big problem in our society at this time. Therefore, at this stage, we do not support this proposal because we do not see the disease socially critical.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123135503	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and since I do not see that more rapporteurs have asked to speak, it is now the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123135515	I would like to start by thanking you for the treatment that the draft law has received today and for the support that has been provided. Denmark, like the rest of the world, continues to face a health crisis as a result of the covid-19 pandemic, the infection with corona is once again increasing in society, and we must of course take this seriously, and we are therefore back together to deal urgently with a legislative proposal that is necessary to ensure that we can contain and that we can mitigate the most serious consequences of the spread of covid-19 in Danish society. The goal of the Danish management of covid-19 is to keep the activity in all parts of society as high as possible while keeping the infection as low as possible. In order to maintain the activity of society as much as possible, it is essential that measures can be taken and appropriate measures taken at the country's workplaces to minimise the contamination, so that employees can safely go to work and business operations can continue. The bill will result in a tripartite agreement from 12 November this year between the government, the Danish Employers' Association and the trade union movement, which will allow employers to require employees to present coronapas. The purpose of the bill is to allow employers to require employees to present coronapas as long as the covid-19 is categorized as a social-critical disease. In addition, the purpose of the bill is to reinstate the rules of the Test Act which allow employers to require employees to be tested for covid-19 and to be informed of the test results. As stated in the bill, employers can only require employees to be tested if this is objectively justified by the need to limit the spread of infection by covid-19, including in order to ensure the working environment, or for essential operational reasons. The bill also allows employers to require employees to apply self-tests at the workplace to the extent that they are CE-approved and used in accordance with the instructions. There is a great need for us to act now and put the rules into effect quickly so that employees can safely go to work and business operations can continue unhindered. The bill will apply until 11 December 2021, unless the government and the Folketing decide to extend the period during which covid-19 is considered a social-critical disease, and that is perhaps a response to what is being raised from the Danish People's Party. This does not require a new legislative process in December, but as long as the Parliament's Epidemi Committee will extend the assessment that covid-19 is a social-critical disease, employers' access to the possibility of requiring to see coronapas will then also be automatically extended, at least until 31 December 2022, when the law expires. As acting Minister for Employment, I am, of course, pleased that the employers' association and trade union movement have once again taken responsibility and shown a social mind when the crisis hits Danish society. We have discussed and created a new tripartite agreement this morning, which I am also looking forward to discussing with the Danish Parliament, and I also hope that the Danish Parliament will be able to support this bill, and that is what I can already hear from the first reading that there is a comfortable majority in favour. I can also hear that there are a large number of questions that will be raised in committee, and we are naturally looking forward to answering them. I would like to thank you for today's debate and look forward to the committee's consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123135835	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123135838	Thank you very much. One of these questions was asked by the Minister's rapporteur to pass on to the Minister. That is what I am going to do here, and that is what is at issue here. 5, which states that the Minister for Employment may lay down a rule as to what is meant by a coronapas. Does this mean that the Minister of Employment will be authorized to take a negative test out of the corona pass?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123135903	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123135905	No, that's not the idea. We intend to issue an administrative decree defining a valid coronapas, but also to ensure that the coronapas follow the other definitions contained in the legislation so that we do not have six or seven different definitions of what is a coronapas. So there will be no special rules in relation to what is otherwise applicable in relation to the regulation of what a coronapass is. But there is, for example. Sometimes an adjustment in which groups can be exempted from a coronapass, and there the health authorities will adjust it, and then it will be automatically adjusted here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123135948	Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123135951	Is it my understanding that when it says that the Minister for Employment can lay down a rule as to what is meant by a coronapa, it is simply that the rules that the Minister for Health may lay down should be complied with by the Minister for Employment? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123140002	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123140005	In other words, it is an authorisation clause for the Minister of Employment, but I can then say here from the floor of Parliament and ensure that it is recorded that I will not issue any announcements inventing my own definition of what a coronapas is. We are going to run narrowly with the definition that applies, moreover, to ensure that the Danes can be confident that, when they have a coronapass in relation to one legislation, they also have it in relation to another legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123140034	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123140049	The negotiations have been opened. Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123140107	Thank you for the floor. The draft law we are now considering aims to limit the rights of the life sentence and of certain prison sentences while they are in prison. When a person is sentenced today to a life sentence or detention sentence, it is important to say that because we are talking about very, very serious crime, perhaps the worst criminals and the worst atrocities committed. And that is why I think it is actually fair to ask whether those people should be allowed to sit in prison and spread their crime, seek sympathy for their cause and try to make themselves celebrities while serving. And perhaps most importantly, they should be allowed to contact young, influential people on dating sites and enter into relationships with them from the prison cell. Young people who may not fully understand the consequences of letting such a dangerous criminal into their lives. I do not think we should be able to do that; I do not think we should be allowed to do that when we serve a punishment for the worst crimes. We must stand on the side of the victims, we must stand on the side of the relatives. I fully understand that watching the perpetrator live his life, maybe in prison, but with a lot of attention, perhaps even admiration for his atrocity. And that's the basic purpose of this bill to change it. It takes some rights from the life-time and detention sentences. Firstly, that they should not have the opportunity to enter into new relationships in the first 10 years of atonement, i.e. relations with someone outside the prison. They can still see their family, but it will make sure that a life sentence can't meet young people online and enroll them, as we have seen in the past. Secondly, they have limited their ability to make public statements about the crimes they have committed. For example, they must: not be allowed to go on social media and profile themselves and their crime if it is offensive to victims and relatives. More generally, it is proposed that the inmates concerned should not, as a rule, be allowed to leave prison for the first 10 years of service, and they should serve in a closed prison for the first 10 years. That is, without the possibility of being transferred to an open prison. Finally, of course, the draft law contains rules on the enforcement of the new stricter rules. There must, of course, be a consequence if the rules are broken. If you violate the rules, you can be sentenced to disciplinary punishment, and there is also the possibility of a penalty for the inmate and for those who may be. help break the rules. I'm sure there'll be somebody who thinks these measures seem a little tough. But I really think that is good and fair, and there is a fair balance in the proposals between the fact that, despite the crime, we must at some point engage in rehabilitation, but that it cannot be reasonable for the country's worst criminals, who have committed the most serious crime, to continue their lives from prison. Here there are some special considerations to be taken into account for the victims who have been the victims of the crime. That is why we support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123140425	There is a brief comment on Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123140428	I do not really deny that there are at least two life sentences that can be tightened up, and I think we know who we are talking about. However, can the Social Democrat rapporteur tell us why it is necessary to introduce the rules for all the life sentences, which, after all, take care of their service in a peaceful and not very significant way? Well, why is it necessary to bother the rest with these tightenings? And the other thing I would like to ask is, doesn't this go against the fact that we want to give the prison officers the opportunity to use their professional skills a little better? Well, now we're gonna graze them into more detailed regulation that's gonna take their time. Does that make sense in the social democracy's optics?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123140521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123140523	Compared to the last one, I'm having a little trouble seeing how this brings a lot of bureaucracy to the prison officers. In other words, it is clear that it would, of course, be the criminal services which are responsible for enforcing the rules. However, it could be said that there are already a lot of rules in a prison today that must be complied with and where it is the Criminal Services who are responsible for it and who can, of course, provide disciplinary penalties and so on. It's not gonna change that part. In relation to why it should apply to other life sentences than two: well, it is true that there have been some examples over the past few years, but I think this is also such a more fundamental, fundamental question that if we have committed some of the worst crimes we can even think of, what are the options we should have when we are in prison? So it may well be that the specific cases have been the occasion to ask whether the rules are tight enough today. But I would also say that even if we had not had the specific examples, I would still think that this bill should be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123140622	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123140623	Perhaps the rapporteur does not have the imagination to imagine what it is that creates bureaucracy. It creates bureaucracy within the walls if you are to check whether something is a close relationship and when it comes to obtaining evidence, and you may need to help with it. Then you have to make some decisions about it, disciplinary penalties create more bureaucracy. We know that and it's not very effective. And reports need to be written. So there's some red tape built into this. My final question is this: except for the proposal on disciplinary penalties and the proposal to cut off public behaviour, which of these things could not be decided today? So is there something new in this proposal that could not have been done?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123140710	Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123140711	Let me just start with the bureaucracy. So, let me put it this way: if this leads to increased bureaucracy, then I will be very open to discussing whether there is any other bureaucracy that can be removed, so that the total amount of bureaucracy for the prison guards does not increase. Because that is a priority, and it is a priority that we have to make in here: what is it that we think is the most important thing? And I just have to say that I think this is important. And it's just important to include in the calculation that so many life sentences we don't have, and so many prison sentences that correspond to life, we don't have. So you should be careful not to make the question bigger than it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123140748	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. That is why we thank the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123140805	Thank you. The proposal we are debating in the Danish Parliament today aims to tighten up the terms of service of those people who are doomed to life or sentenced to imprisonment for crimes for which they could have been given life. This means that one who is doomed to life as well as a prison sentence under these conditions cannot serve in anything other than closed prisons for the first 10 years. That doesn't lead to an exit for 10 years. This means that new relations on visits, correspondence, telephone contact, etc. are excluded for the first 10 years. On the other hand, there is nothing to prevent you from seeing the old friends, if you may say so, and the family, but we do not want the prison to be some sort of meeting platform or media platform for that matter. Therefore, there is also the next proposal to obtain permission for the publication of the mention of the crime, including podcasts, and so you should not be able to profile yourself on the crime in books, audio files, podcasts or on the web etc. etc. Finally, there is a provision on fines and I do not really know how much effect it will have. These are the points outlined in the relevant legislative proposal. I can say that the Left can support the proposal. We're gonna put it down, among other things. I would also like to stress that there is, after all, the possibility of exemption for these rules. There may be situations in which, despite the starting point, the person concerned must nevertheless be allowed to have the activity in question or to meet with the persons concerned, etc. Why, then, this proposal? In order to accommodate others, I must say that it is a proposal that has been made for the families of the victims and, as described in the comments on the proposal, we also allow ourselves to say that young people must be protected from entering into new relations with the people who are convicted of these forms of convictions. It is a proposal that can also resonate elsewhere. I became one of them. phoned by an American radio station that would ask how we could do something like this, and if not it was against human rights etc. I probably had to say that the usual rights that you have as a free person cease when you go through prison sport. Then there are some limitations, and these limitations are what we consider reasonable in the circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123141046	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see that there are any requests for short remarks, and that is why we can move on to Mr Vandemeulebroucke's report. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123141101	Thank you to the government for making motion for a resolution B-55 from the last session of the Danish People's Party a bill. It has been a wish of the Danish People's Party for a long time that we should put an end to the fact that life-time sentenced people could date, that life-time sentenced people could make this self-ice setting, which is also often seen where through the media we can hear one story after another. It may be that the person writes a book, and it may be stories on social media. We have been able to keep up with all sorts of things there. I'm just gonna pull out a few headlines from the newspaper headlines about one of the life-timers, such as, uh... Says: Now Peter Lundin has married; now Peter Lundin has had a child; now Peter Lundin has divorced, now Peter Lundin's former wife speaks out about the time with Peter Lundin; now Peter Lundin's former wife tells how much she regrets that at a very young age she was in a relationship with Peter Lundin; now Peter Lundin has again asked for parole. Well, he's doomed to life, but all these stories come running through the media. What do the victims not think about, that this perpetrator and other life sentences can continue their merits inside the prisons, where they have continued to date all kinds of people and to show who they are in different ways to the public. What's the family thinking? What do the victims think? How is it for the public's right to know that life continues, as if nothing has happened, behind the walls of the prison, and that we hear about it all? That is why we in the Danish People's Party think it is good that we now, by a majority in this House, have at least established that life sentences should not, of course, be able to continue their lives more or less, as if nothing has happened while they are in prison, but then a life sentence really means life, and so all sorts of stories about their behaviour do not become a focal point in this way. Hopefully we won't have to hear about some of these life sentences and the denials they've been given. We also often see that parole is sought. You may get no to that, but that just means that we are repeatedly confronted with all the things that the person in question has done and that there are some relatives out there who are afraid that it can actually result in a parole that you apply for it. It is an independent problem and an independent challenge that we can face another time, but right now we are delighted that we are getting as far as we are doing with this bill. You can also take another life sentence, namely Peter Madsen, who committed his bestialous crime in the submarine • crimes, as we have also been reminded of time and time again. We also hear about his dating life, his wedding, his breakup, his bride with his very young boyfriend, etc. etc. So let's finally stop this madness and not be able to give all these good opportunities to people who have cut themselves off from the surrounding society by committing as serious crime as they have. So it is positive and it is good that we can adopt this proposal. What we also think is good about the proposal is that we also have a thorough look at the very fine measures that we have taken today on the possibility of serving time: exit, communication, disciplinary penalties. In other words, we are getting around with this bill a little wider than our motion for a resolution, and all of that means that we can support the bill and thus our own motion for a resolution. Then, of course, we can assess during the committee procedure whether there can be some parts that need to be looked at a little more closely. There's an exception rule. Is it necessary to adjust it in one direction or another? We are, of course, quite ready to look at this as long as the main aim is preserved, namely that we stop life-time dating life from prison.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123141530	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123141546	Thank you for the floor. After all, life sentences have committed some very serious crimes, and they are serving on an average of 16 to 17 years, which is quite a lot more than the average. Some of them are very well known, not least because they constantly invoke the public interest, either by finding ways of making public statements or by making contact with people outside the prison. I also think we can name them, it's about those who are causing the problems. That's two in particular. I actually agree with the government that they are a problem. That is why I can see the need to tighten up on them, because it must be extremely insulting as a victim or relative of one of their victims to have to be constantly left behind their escapades. Of course, it is Peter Lundin, who is now called something else, and Peter Madsen, whom I am thinking of here. But I also think that the two are in a league for themselves, and they constantly try the boundaries of, but many other life-timers do not make any creature of themselves. They're doing their time, they're minding their own business. Therefore, it seems out of proportion to tighten up with all of them, restricting them much in their contact with the outside world, because there are two fools who can't figure out how to behave properly. That kind of collective punishment, I think, should be avoided. I also think that the proposal contains some of the things that we need to get away from in criminal justice, namely extremely detailed management. Let us not come up with more rules which deprive the prison officers of their ability to make the right judgements and use their professional skills; more disciplinary punishment, which we have already established does not work and does not make sense for the employees; more rules which empty the job of meaning and swallow the time of the officers with something that does not add value to anyone, for example. in order to verify whether all life sentences have evidence of their close relationship and to allow them to visit, as well as the problems associated with it, for life sentences to obtain evidence when they do not have access to data outside the walls. Some of them have spent 20 years or more. I think we should dare to make a multi-year agreement that allows the police to use their education, a multi-year agreement that gives the criminal services freedom, such a freedom that we dared to give the police, and trust that the employees can. Then perhaps some will ask whether I am not thinking at all of the victims and of their sense of justice. Yes, I do, but let's hold on to the fact that most life sentences never appear in public, so let's focus on those who cause the problems. In fact, that is what many of the consultation answers say we must do. I do not have to hide the fact that there are some of them personally, I hope you will never consider letting them out again. I can see some music in the fact that the life sentence is not allowed to make public statements about his atrocity. I think that is actually respectful to the victims, and I would like to support that rule. But many of the other things seem a bit symbolic and like something you've come up with to turn a package together. Many of the things that the government is proposing can already be done, for example. to serve in a closed environment for the first 10 years without possibility of exit. That's actually the way it is for most life-timers. It is in extremely few cases where there is a transfer to a semi-armed regime, and that is probably because there is a really good reason for it. Why can we not allow that opportunity to pass? Whether this is to happen must depend on the behaviour of the individual and whether he or she is dangerous, rather than keeping a ten-year deadline. In relation to the end, it is true that you can search for 2-5 years, depending on what kind of judgment you have, but it is hardly granted, and the Ministry of Justice itself mentions that it can take up to 15-20 years before it actually happens, even today. So do we need new rules? I don't think so. After all, police services are already able to limit access to telephones, visits and letters, and this is indeed already happening for some people who have been sentenced to life. So it's kind of a blow to the air. I can be concerned that it is the criminal services which, on their own initiative, must pay attention to inmates who become too poor in their social contacts, and so I would really like some answers as to how this can be ensured in an everyday life where we know there are no powers and hands at all. Nor can we deny that there are inmates who cannot be motivated at all, because the prospects for better conduct and getting something out of it simply shrink by removing their relations from them. So, overall, I think this is a bad proposal. There's one thing I think is good. I think we should let the prison officers use their professional skills. Much of what has been mentioned can already be done, and I do not think that staff need more unnecessary rules and more unnecessary administration; their time can simply be better spent.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123142052	A brief comment on Mrs Britt Bager, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123142055	Thank you to the rapporteur for at least responding to the fact that some parts of the proposal are relevant. I hear that the rapporteur says that the rapporteur agrees that this is, after all, a problem with Peter Lundin and Peter Madsen, and so I would like to hear what the rapporteur's proposals are about the situations that have been here, because I really hear that the rapporteur would like to help contain such situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123142119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123142121	Well, I think my approach to that is that we need the options we already have. In fact, we have the option of restricting visits, telephone calls, that you should not have contacts with very many people. And I understand the possibilities that are being used today. But when I cannot go into it in detail, it is because I am going to refer to an answer that we have received in the Committee on Legal Affairs but which, unfortunately, I cannot refer from here today, but the rapporteur will understand what we can already do.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123142150	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Samira Nawa, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123142202	Thank you, President. When you are sentenced to life imprisonment or have a prison sentence, you have committed a very, very serious crime. In this draft law, it is proposed that it should also be felt by the execution of the sentence that the most severe possible punishment has been given and has just committed a very serious crime, and I agree with that. But I disagree that this should not be the case today. The bill here significantly restricts the right of the life-time and detention sentenced to contact with the outside world for the first 10 years of their service, by introducing this licensing system for the right of visit, correspondence and telephone calls. My sympathy for the sentenced and sentenced to life may lie in a very small place and may also be non-existent in some cases, but I also have to say that a community of law is a test when we have to take a stand on legal certainty, including for those whom we do not like. This does not mean that I do not have respect and great sympathy for the victims of these gross crimes, but we also have to be honest in this case and say that this bill aims to hit two life sentences, but ends up restricting the right of contact with the outside world for all those who are serving, and precisely also those who are doing nothing about their crimes. On that basis, the Radical Left cannot support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123142346	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. This means that we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123142401	Thank you. Now we have had a lot of discussions in the Enhedslisten, both with the Minister and with the Minister's colleagues, but also in this House in general over the last few years, on human rights. And, of course, in the Enhedslisten, we have also concluded an agreement in the understanding paper with the government that human rights must be respected. That is why I am a little surprised why new legislative proposals from the Minister, which are constantly on the verge of human rights, are still being tabled, even though, of course, a judgment has not yet been passed on this issue of restricting the possibility of visits to people sentenced to life and imprisonment. But there is, of course, a major risk that Denmark will be convicted of a violation of human rights by the Court of Human Rights with this proposal, and it is therefore in my view not to stand guard over international conventions. And yes, we can agree that the few who will be affected by this law have not earned any sympathy... nor do they get it from the Enhedslisten. But basic human rights belong to all of us, including those we do not like, including those who have done something with which we disagree. I think it is highly questionable that the Minister should not address the issue of human rights at any time in the draft law. Now, the good thing is that we are going to have a committee reading of this bill, where we can then ask the Minister to deal with it, and then I am sure that we will get an answer there. But in addition to hitting the inmates, this legislation will also go beyond the crime prevention efforts that are being made in our prisons. There is no doubt that this restriction of privacy will make the work of the prison officers incredibly much harder and, in addition, increase the risk of assault on those at work. I was talking to a prison officer out in Herstedvester Prison, who was very incomprehensible to this bill. He couldn't actually understand where it came from or what it was supposed to do good for. It was certainly not something he thought about in his day-to-day life as a tool that they lacked at his place of work, where they are just dealing with those sentenced to detention. Having said that, I also know that we are only standing here today because we have heard of one single person who is as a minor made contact with Peter Madsen. And I think it may be a little out of proportion that we, as Parliament, should deal with a legislative proposal on something that has only happened once, that is an absolute exception. And then we can agree in here that we find it difficult to get to grips with that situation; that we find it difficult to understand that it can happen at all. But the fact that we are now making an entire legal complex, that is to say a whole legislative proposal, on the basis of it, is a little unproportional, I think. Then there is the question of the victims, which we often discuss in here too, and I think that is really important. But I also think it is very important to bear in mind that these are people who have had the hardest punishments already they have had the hardest ones. That is certainly not what I think they are, and they have, as such, already been punished for their atrocities, and that is a good thing; it has been condemned by the courts. But I do have a bit of difficulty in understanding this bill, given that 1) the criminal services staff do not want this tool, 2) that it is fairly much at odds with human rights, I think that at least, but what I would also like to ask the Ministry for an explanation of this tool and 3) that it is a proposal for legislation that is made on the basis of a single case, and I think that is simply disproportionately that we are dealing with this in the Danish Parliament. So on that basis, Enhedslisten can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123142830	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mrs Britt Bager, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123142836	Thank you for that, President. For the Conservative People's Party, it is always important that we protect victims, victims' relatives and the general sense of justice. And if you have committed a crime that is so serious that you get a life sentence, then it is common sense that the first 10 years should be served in a closed prison. It is also common sense that we cannot get to the end of the first ten years of atonement. And it is common sense that the life sentence can only have contact with close existing relationships, i.e. those with whom the inmate had contact prior to detention. In addition, this proposal means that the life-timer must obtain permission to participate in public debates or public publications. This is for the sake of the victims and the relatives of the victims. We also support that part in the Conservative People's Party, as we support the sanctions contained in this proposal. All in all, we think it is a sensible proposal which we support in its entirety.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123142946	Thank you to the rapporteur. I don't see any more rapporteurs, but I see a minister, so here you go to the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123142956	Thank you for your comments on the draft law and thank you for the fact that it seems that we will be able to implement it with broad support. First of all, on the comments of the Danish People's Party: it is true, as Mr. Peter Skaarup says that the bill is inspired at least partly by a motion for a resolution that we discussed earlier this year. I also indicated, when dealing with the motion for a resolution, that it was something that had to be worked on. So that way the credit for that part is also there. It has been raised a few times not least by SF Mrs Karina Lorentzen, but also by others, that this is a proposal which will result in a lot of bureaucracy and unnecessary work. Some have said that it is a very few inmates that it is really only two people to whom it is directed. We cannot know who is coming along the way, but the situation in Denmark is such that we currently have, as I remember, 35 life sentences. Then it will also be possible to include those who have been sentenced to detention if they have been convicted of a crime which could result in a life sentence. This means that not all prisoners will be able to be included in the proposal here. The fact is that, regardless of whether the persons in question have been sentenced to life or imprisonment, there will be people who have committed some of the worst crimes one can imagine, some of the things that society is most opposed to, for example. Homicide. There is special consideration in these situations for the sense of justice, and there is a concern for the victims and relatives. I think I also hear broad recognition of this. It is also true that we have some examples of cases on which we have to say that the behaviour and manner of action that have been possible within the rules in force or at the edge of the rules in force are not fair to those who, for example, are in a position to do so. are closely related to some, such as: I think we can broadly agree on that. Then there is the question of the various elements: what is new and what is not new? It's like this: There is a cut-off of the possibilities of entering into new relationships in the first 10 years of atonement. This is a new proposal, but hardly anything that is very bureaucratic, according to what I said about what kind of population it is. Then there's this limitation to making statements. There it might sound a little like we're taking the freedom of speech from the condemned. We don't. It is an expression of the crime or crimes that they may have committed. Then there's this thing about how you can't get permission to leave for the first 10 years. It actually removes some bureaucracy, because then you don't have to deal with that part of it. Finally, there's this part about serving in a closed prison. It is true that most people are already doing so today, but this is a new tightening-up which should make it possible for us to go to a place where those sentenced to life imprisonment or detention for a crime that could lead to life cannot have behaviour that is contrary to the sense of justice, or behaviour that could violate those who are victims or relatives of victims. So I should like to thank Mrs Lund for the good comments she has made, and I should like to say to Mrs Lund that the fact that human rights must be respected goes without saying, and it is the view of the Ministry of Justice that the proposal is within the framework. This is also quite detailed in section 4 of the commentary.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123143408	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister, and that is from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123143415	It is my impression that most of these things can be done in advance; you just have to make the decision on it. Is the Minister, for example? Compared to the end, how many people have gotten out before the 10 years? I understand that you can search for two years, I think it is when you're in custody, and after five years, when you're doomed to life. But is anyone really getting such an exit?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123143447	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123143450	As I am told about it, it is an opportunity given to the life sentence sentenced after five years and four months' service that can be terminated here. If we are to be quite specific on the figures for when this has happened in time and how many it is about, then I think I will have to come back with something in writing on that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123143509	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123143511	I'll guess it's about zero, but let's get it figured out. Because it is true that one can ask for the opportunity, but one does not get it, which is probably also very sensible in quite a few cases. But if we impose on the inmate for all the relationships you have to provide evidence that you have a relationship and if the prison officers have to sit and control it and take a stand in each case and say 'yes' or 'no', does the Minister think it will be a task that the officers will spend more or less time on today?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123143556	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123143558	It goes without saying that if that burden of proof is to be lifted, it will of course also give some work to the prison officers who must be involved in giving the inmate the opportunity to lift that part of the burden of proof. On the other hand, I am pleased that the fact that we are saying that there is now no possibility of the end of the first 10 years is an element which the SF also thinks is sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123143628	The next brief remark is from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123143631	Thank you. Well, I just have to ask the Minister again about the human rights issue. The Minister and I have discussed this issue of process risk before. And I can read what the Minister's officials are assessing here. But that does not mean that there is a risk of a trial here at the Court of Human Rights. We have also discussed this here in connection with Danish begging legislation, and we often discuss it in the field of foreigners, for which I know it is not this minister who has to stand up for. But I suppose there is a major procedural risk to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123143708	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123143710	Unfortunately, we are in the unpleasant situation of both the European Court of Human Rights and the European Court of Justice carrying out dynamic interpretation, which means that it is impossible to foresee what they are judging. And that always entails a certain process risk. This is, of course, one of the things that I think there is a constant need to criticize the two courts for destroying legal certainty in this way. But whether it is essential here may be to fill the cup. But there is always a risk because they behave the way they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123143738	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123143741	Well, I disagree with the Minister that there is a problem here with the European Court of Human Rights and, as such, with the European Court of Justice. As long as we just agree that there is actually a process risk here, I think that is very problematic. The Minister may have a different opinion, so this is not really a question, but just an emphasis that I do not agree with the Minister's interpretation of how the European Court of Human Rights works. I just think it's important to get this straight.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123143810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123143812	But here we have a fundamental disagreement. I think that those who should make policies should be those who have democratic legitimacy. And judges don't. And I was saddened, and I think Mrs Rosa Lund too was when the European Court of Human Rights, for example. It considered that exclusive agreements were contrary to the Convention, which in no way can be read out of the Convention's basis, but was found by the Court. And that's problematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123143841	Then I can thank the Minister for Justice. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123143857	The debate was opened. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. Welcome to sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123143915	Thank you. From a bill on what it should be like to be in prison when you are convicted of serious crime, to now a bill on how we investigate serious crime. For the legislative proposal that we are going to deal with now contains a revision of the rules on the registration and storage of telecommunications traffic, or perhaps more popularly said: what is also called logging and logging rules. I think I will not go into too much detail here with both the background and the technique, but those who have followed the case in recent years know that the legislative proposal we have before us today is the result of decisions by the European Court of Justice which make it necessary to amend the Danish legislation in force. I think I'll just be honest with you, I think it's a shame because logging is an important tool for the police when they're investigating. It may be absolutely crucial for the prosecution's ability to prosecute in the courts, and it is indeed the case in cases of serious crime, gang crime, murder, drug crime and terrorism that logging is a particularly important tool. That is why we actually saw that we could keep the rules as they are today. That is not possible because of the judgment of the European Court of Justice. Therefore, it is of course important that the proposed changes in the rules ensure as far as possible that traffic data, etc. can continue to be used to combat crime effectively, so that we really go as far as we can now within the framework of EU law. The practice of the European Court of Justice means that logging as a starting point must be targeted. An important exception to this is, of course, that it does not have to be when there is a serious threat to national security. In relation to the logging itself, the bill contains two parts: there is both the targeted registration and storage, and then there is the general and undifferentiated registration and storage, and it is the national security and the assessment of it that determine which of the two regimes applies. If we are to start with the first part, that is to say the targeted logging, it can be said that the draft law provides for the introduction of a model of personal and geographically targeted logging; in other words, the police will be able to require a telecommunications provider to log targeted individuals or certain areas. For logging to take place, those persons or areas must have a connection to serious crime. Rough crime is defined in the bill as offences with a penalty of three years or more, i.e. serious crime: rape, killing, etc. Then there is the second part of the bill, which is the general and undifferentiated logging, where it can be said that there is a more wide logging of all users across the country, and it is not hung on either geography or specific people. This model can then be applied when Denmark faces a serious threat to national security. As the draft law indicates, it is expected that by the year 2022 there will be a serious threat to national security, and therefore rules requiring providers to carry out general and undifferentiated logging will be possible even next year. But it is important to say that this must not be done systematically and that it must be an ongoing assessment. I also think it is important to say that if the authorities are to have access to the logged information, both under the new legislative proposal and under the rules today, there will be a requirement for a court order to be obtained, whether it is one or the other model that is being logged in. What is new is that, according to the new rules, the information can be provided only if the investigation concerns serious crime, i.e. offences with a penalty of three years or more. This bill is not a wish law proposal, because for the sake of national security and the effective fight against crime, we would like to keep the current rules. We can't do that, and that means we have to change it now. It is both cumbersome and costly, not only for authorities but also for the telecommunications industry. But the bill here goes as far as we can see, as far as possible, to provide the police and prosecutors with the best tools for investigating and prosecuting serious crime within the framework of EU law. So in those words, the Social Democrats can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123144402	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and it is only from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123144406	There is no doubt that there are some of us who are rather disappointed with this proposal, because it will not be very many restrictions, and I can be seriously afraid that we will lose a new trial when the time comes. But I would like to know why it is necessary to reduce the limit from 6 years to 6 years in relation to crime, which has a penalty of 6 years to 3 years and includes it. I am aware of the extension of the possibility of using logging rather than limiting it. Why have the government and the Social Democrats considered this necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123144450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123144452	As I also said in my speech, our desire is to go as far as possible within the framework of EU law in order to retain the tool that access to telecommunications data may be for the police and the prosecution. And we use that opportunity here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123144509	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123144511	But do the Socialists recognise that this is an extension and not a restriction here? Then I would like to know whether the Socialists believe that we will have the clause on targeted logging ever applied. It is the case that we can make a general and undifferentiated logging if it is a matter of state security, and it has been estimated for the time being that we are in a situation where that is the case. And I guess there's no prospect of that changing in the future. So do the Socialists even expect that provision to ever be applied?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123144555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123144557	Let me put it this way, I hope so. Because that would mean that the threat to Denmark's security would be lower than it is today. So I really hope that we can go down on it, you might say, small model, because that means that the level of threat to Denmark would have fallen. And I'm afraid it doesn't look like it right now. The threat level against Denmark is There is a really good tool for the police to have for it, and that is why it is good, after all, that EU law provides the opportunity to keep it when there is a threat to national security, just as there are other details, regarding extensions, for example. It has now been possible to include speaking time cards, which is basically very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123144645	The next brief remark is to Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123144650	One might as well come straight out of the bush and say that on the Enhedslisten side we simply think this is a scandalously bad bill. After all, the reality is that the enormous problems that exist are not being remedied. We still have a situation where people's rights, in other words human rights, are basically violated by the way they lodge. However, I cannot help but bear in mind that the rapporteur says that he envisages keeping within the scope of EU law here. How does this compare with the fact that the government itself writes in the bill that there is a significant process risk? This means, of course, that it is not expected that this will actually comply with EU rules. Wasn't it just right to come out and say it the way it is? You actually put it as it is in the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123144735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123144737	No, it doesn't mean that. Well, it's important to say it doesn't mean it doesn't. A significant process risk means that there is that is the Justice Department's assessment, and I kind of trust that they can do that. Then I just want to say that I do not think it is a question of getting out of the bush. Well, I actually think we're very honest that we think logging is a good tool. And I don't share Enhedslisten's fear of surveillance in this way, where we are talking about data that can be used to solve serious crime, and which I just have to say I don't feel offended by the fact that the authorities can access when investigating serious crime if they get a court order. I simply do not believe that this violates my rights or those of others.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123144827	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123144829	After all, this is not about what personally violates the rapporteur or not. This is about the fact that, as a state, we have a responsibility to live up to human rights, and we do not do so here. There is an EU judgment that says that the general and undifferentiated logging that has taken place over the last seven years in Denmark is not okay, that it is illegal, and the bill that is here today does not actually correct what it should correct. The rapporteur then says that it is okay, as long as there is a serious threat to Denmark, to do this general logging. That is not what the EU judgment says; it actually says that it must not be systematic and that there must be an extraordinary situation. And does the Social Democrat rapporteur think that it is fair to say that when there has been the same terrorist assessment for over seven years, one can just continue to do this general logging and then that it complies with the rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123144914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123144916	I agree that the judgment says that it must not be systematic. Therefore, it will be an ongoing assessment of the level of threat that determines which of the two models of logging is to be applied. And I think that's too bad. I would like us to have the general logging all the time, but I do not think it is right to say that this draft law does not comply with the Court's ruling. It does, and that is why it has been put forward; it is, of course, in order to adapt Danish legislation to the ruling given by the European Court of Justice. And there is the assessment that the legislative proposal that is here remains within the scope of EU law.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123144951	The next brief remark is to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123144955	Now that we are getting out of the bush, I think I want to make it clear that we in the Radical Left think that this is a piece of crap, to be honest. For some of the things the rapporteur does not answer, what Mrs Flyvholm has just said is that general and undifferentiated logging must not take on a systematic character. The rapporteur is not concerned about whether the logging has not been of a general and systematic nature over the last seven years, and if the threat picture continues over the next seven years and this so-called continuous assessment maintains that we must have a general and undifferentiated logging, it is of course that it will not be limited in time, and I do not think the rapporteur is dealing with that. Well, it shouldn't be systematic, but that's what it's gonna be anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123145045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123145046	In reply to Mrs Flyvholm and in my speech I say: yes, it is in the court's decision that it must not be systematic. I fully agree with that. Unfortunately, that is what we now have to adapt to, which is why we need to make an ongoing assessment of how the threat to Denmark's security is, and that is what determines which of the two regimes can be said to be applicable.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123145109	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123145111	No, because it may well be that the Social Democrats have a desire for it to be systematic in character, and then they have to comply with a judgment, and then we can have political disagreements. That is one thing. But this is also about the fact that it has to be for a time-limited period, and then it is said that it has to be for a whole year. It's not very time-limited. At the same time, we are starting from a threat assessment which has been in force for the last seven years.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123145141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123145143	Well, I don't think I can make it any clearer. So, I think I say it very clearly: yes, it must not be systematic, and therefore there must be an ongoing assessment of what the threat level is to Denmark, and it is being done by the authorities. If the level of threat is too high and serious, the general logging can be applied and if not, and I think we all hope that the level of threat will fall, then it will be the targeted logging that is applied instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123145207	The next brief remark is from Mr. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123145211	Thank you for the floor. This is completely wrong, it's totally wrong. Such legislation does not belong in a rule of law such as Denmark, but belongs in countries that have fascist tendencies; it is totally wrong to monitor the whole population. I'd like to ask you something. The Minister is talking about this process risk, and the Minister recognises that there is a significant process risk in continuing the general and undifferentiated logging, and so I just have to understand it correctly: if the scheme is found to be illegal, will it be possible for the telecommunications companies to fall under responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123145255	Congratulations on the promotion to the Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123145300	Thank you. Fascist tendencies, I do not know where we are at the level of the debate if that is where we need to start. This bill is about the possibility for the police and the prosecution to solve serious crime, and that is what is at the heart of being able to log, that is to say that the police and the prosecution can find the worst criminals, terrorists. That is what this is all about, and it is not about fascist tendencies, it is about looking after the Danish people and giving the police the opportunity to solve crimes. I think it is a frighteningly low level to stand in Parliament and use such words.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123145333	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123145336	No, the frighteningly low level here is that in a rule of law like Denmark you will now be monitoring the entire population, the entire population must be monitored because you want to catch some criminals. Everyone's legal certainty must be violated, everyone's right to privacy must be violated. That's an enormously low level. I understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur will not answer the question, but now I have one more question, and then I hope that the rapporteur will respond to it instead of talking about it. What will happen to the cases that have already been settled if the European Court of Justice denies the Minister's idea of using data collection for purposes other than the fight against terrorism? What's gonna happen to those cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123145418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123145420	There are some facts we just need to have in place here. After all, we are not talking about monitoring all citizens in Denmark. We are talking about the fact that the police, the prosecution can have access to telecommunications data if they obtain a court order, that is to say data on who has been in a geographical area, which persons have been present at the time when a serious crime has been committed, as part of the investigation of a serious crime or as part of the evidence before the courts. That is what we are talking about, we are not talking about monitoring, we are not talking about anyone sitting there watching who Mr. Sikandar Siddique or others are calling or where you are, but we're talking about that when serious crime has been committed, the police can access that data to solve crimes. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123145505	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123145519	Thank you. To review this proposal is like recording Wagner's Nibelungen's Ring on a single plate; it's at least hard to get it all in, I can say already now. If we start at the beginning, I can say that we had legislation on terrorism around 2001, and in 2007 we were actually instructed by the telecommunications companies to log this information on the master, at times, not on the content of the conversations, but at least, as I said, on the masters and times, the length of the conversation, where and from. I believe that everyone is aware of this and, after all, we can hardly disagree on that. Nor can we disagree that the lodge has required a court order. So it is not the case that the police or PET can sit and watch everything, because you have to go to court to obtain the information. In fact, I think it is very important to establish once and for all that logged information has been the heaviest proof. You'll hear that if you ask any defense attorney, prosecutor, judge, you name it, it's been the heaviest evidence in the worst criminal cases we've had in the time we've had logged information. The heaviest evidence has been where the phones have been. Let me give you a few examples. In 2015 there is a woman who travels from Vejle to Vordingborg to mediate with her ex-husband. She stays away, but by teleinformation you find out that you have to look at a beach near Vordingborg, and there you find cosmetics and other items, and then you interrogate people nearby who have seen the car. It ends with that man being convicted of murder, even though the woman's body has never been found. Let us take another example: in 2017, we had the pleasure of travelling criminals convicted of 25 very serious home robberies and illegal detention against vulnerable, weak people all over the country, also in sparsely populated areas. They are being convicted, among other things. on the basis of telecommunications information. A third example: a few years ago we had a firefighter on the Fjerritslevkanten, who happened to be present in the situations where fires occurred, a total of 19 fires, and each of the fires involved fires where there were people at home. Teleinformation helped to bring them down, both during investigation and, of course, during the sentence. They were part of the judgment material, and you can read it in Ugeskrift for Retsskabet, 2018, page 2480. So these are some of the situations in which telecommunications information has been used, but in addition, these are the most serious crimes, the abduction of children on South Funen, twice rape cases on South Funen, also of children; they are plenty of murder cases and drug transports. We say no to this here because the European Court of Justice has taken the decisions taken by the European Court of Justice in this area, according to which general and undefined logging is contrary to EU law. We need to respect that and, on that basis, the Minister of Justice is submitting a proposal to take advantage of the exceptions provided for in the judgments and to ensure that the police continue to be able to solve the crimes in question and against a court order. Unfortunately, in the view of the Left, the proposal is a reduction in the possibility of logging and thus the possibility of solving the worst crimes. However, there are exceptions in the relevant judgments and the exceptions are then used in this proposal so that we can log something after all. As you know, these are exceptions to areas where there is a great deal of crime, areas where there are embassies, and in situations where there is a serious threat to Denmark's security. I think it is a good thing that the Minister has gone as far as he has. Is this against EU law? Yes, there is a significant procedural risk, it is no secret, but I cannot fail to note that the proposal states initially, or at least in the section above, that it is in line with the practice of the European Court of Justice. Subsequently, it is noted that there is a significant process risk. Don't ever stand at sea, let the others stand. Well, there is a reservation on the part of the Left, I might as well say frankly, because this proposal costs an incredible amount of money in this form, and we therefore need to have a thorough examination of this with the Minister. The Left regrets that the proposal has been put forward at a time when we have only had so few days to look at it, but all the more so we must at least do something about it, including the technical review which will take place on Thursday.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150023	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and it is only from Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150030	Thank you very much. How does the rapporteur of the Left feel that this kind of logging is in keeping with being a liberal party?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150044	Yes, I could ask or at least say in a different way: would not a liberal party also be in favour of certain rules in this society, although we would like to see freedom? It is not the case that we are going against speed overruns for that reason. It is not the case that we are going against speeding speeds... Yes, it is the case that we are going against speed speeds • I think it was wrong expressed. However, in this situation in a liberal society, we want the police to have the best possible opportunity to solve crimes, and these are the possibilities that the police have used. And let me stress this: the examples I mentioned were from sparsely populated areas which will not be covered by the terrible proposals of the Minister for Justice here. These are places where you cannot log, so these are situations where you cannot find the proof in the form of logged information, and that is deeply regrettable. So that's my answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150140	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150142	I really had hoped to have an alliance partner in the very Left, a liberal party. I hear I can shoot a white arrow at that. When, at the end of his speech, the rapporteur mentioned that there were perhaps some reservations, I just got the hope up, but it ended up being alone the economic circumstances that the rapporteur was concerned about. Is there nothing else in this draft law that the rapporteur can point to as one could adjust, do differently in relation to monitoring, in relation to logging?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150219	We certainly have concerns about the fact that the proposal restricts the police's ability to solve crimes, i.e. the regular logging. But now that we have to follow the decisions of the European Court of Justice here, we have to say that no, the government has taken it as far as it can, so we certainly have no doubts about that. We have concerns about the economy. So that is quite correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150242	The next brief remark is to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150247	After all, the rapporteur gave a large number of examples of what can be said, terrible cases, which I think we would all like to find out where the logging has been concluded. I think I could supplement with a large number of cases where television surveillance has entered into. Nevertheless, we in Parliament saw that, when we had a proposal from the Minister for Justice on television surveillance, the Left turned back on it was far too much. And it can be said that, after all, television is being watched in limited areas. Here's everybody who goes in the pot. I simply cannot fully understand the liberalism of the Left here. Well, television surveillance is clearly too much, even if signs are set up, so you know where it is going, and it's a restricted area, but logging everyone is just okay. How can this be connected?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150337	Yes, in some areas it is a strange society that we live in, I can say. In relation to television surveillance and the comparison with logging, I have to say that, first of all, we cannot log all that, unfortunately, the Minister has had to realise that and, secondly, the case must already be brought before a judge before we can get that information out of the telecommunications companies. When comparisons of this kind are made, I cannot help but compare with the situation where we give Google and Facebook and Instagram and Twitter, etc. permissions of a completely incomprehensible nature when we install an app. No one has read what it says, and no one understands what it says. But it doesn't do much to authorize a crazy surveillance. But when it's the police, our terrible police, we're gonna have to hold back, I hear. The comparison with TV cameras doesn't really work out. Television cameras are something that sits everywhere here, and there is far, far more direct access to that than there is to it here via court orders etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150443	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150445	It was probably a song from the hot countries which explained very little what the difference is, why the one proposal, that is, the television surveillance proposal, is about freedoms, but that this does not do so much. It doesn't matter. I do not understand what the policy of the Left is here either. But I do know that Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen is a lawyer. How's sir? President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). I think we are getting used to the fact that in some proposals there is a process risk, but a significant probability is that Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen who is in favour of this proposal slipping through if it is that it gets back to EU law, because I think it does? And the last thing I would like to ask is how the Left feels about lowering the limit, so that it is now only things that fall within a criminal framework of three years, which are also included here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150548	With regard to the fact that there is a risk of a process, I would say: yes, there is. And how do I feel about that? Yes, I feel that we will then have to see if it is sustainable when it comes to the European Court of Justice. I cannot help quoting now the late legal professor Halfdan Krag Jespersen, who said: anything can happen when a case comes before the courts. And the Minister for Justice was a little bit concerned about this; especially with the interpretation that is being applied internationally, it is therefore difficult to predict. With regard to the three months that the question also went on, I can only say that I am quite comfortable with that. I would have liked to have kept as much logging as possible under the old rules. Now we're gonna narrow them down, and we're gonna get three months anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150627	Mrs Flyvholm, Enhedslisten, for the next brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150630	It can be said that the rapporteur almost gets it, as the rapporteur would have liked. Because what this proposal is about is, in fact, maintaining the general logging, that is. That is to say, you continue to make a general logging of the population. That's the first thing. And even if you were to scale it down for a targeted logging, you would still have a logging that could cover up to 80-90 per cent. of the country's population, so in this way this still hits away very, very wide. And it can be said that some of the concerns that have also been expressed have not only been heard in one hearing answer, because in virtually all the consultation answers it is said that one is insanely concerned about this legislation. The industry is also very concerned because it is of course thought that this is not going to work, that it is still in breach of the EU rules and that it will also have to be changed and that it will be very troublesome and very, very expensive. In fact, I would like to hear the rapporteur of the Left answer a question: is this the case if someone is making a case, for example? illegal logging, that it is the companies that have to pay the compensation or that it is the state that has to go in and pay the compensation, or how does the Left view it? Because I think it's a very realistic scenario that there's going to be a part of this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150747	I have to say that Mrs Eva Flyvholm can certainly reach around many subjects in such a speech here, perhaps also so many that my memory can hardly keep up, but then we have to take it up on another occasion. In relation to legal proceedings: Everyone is free in the Kingdom of Denmark to bring an action, including against the State. Then Mr. Sikandar Siddique's side, how such a case will go. I have no idea. How am I supposed to know? But I can say that this at least requires that the lawyer in question can prove that there is culpa, that is to say guilt, on the part of the government, that we have done something that we should not or should not do, and at the same time that there is a loss. It's kind of the closest I can get to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150824	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150825	I'm a little interested in this. In fact, the companies are also very worried and it usually takes the Left for this because they basically don't believe that this is going to work, and again because they think it should be changed later. But what I am asking is: is it the rapporteur's view that the citizens here will be able to sue, for example? the telecommunications companies for failing to respect human rights, if this is what they are operating in?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150900	I cannot give a response to that here on a stand-by basis, but you can always sue the telecommunications companies. However, I doubt that they can be held legally responsible if they comply with the legislation which the Folketing may have adopted if necessary. So that's where I think they're gonna be free.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150918	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left, and so it has become time for the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Welcome to sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123150933	It's a long-awaited bill. Basically, it is based on the stupid judgment, which came on 6 October 2000, when the European Court of Justice ruled on some of these issues, but as with so many other judgments coming from the European Court of Justice, they can be a guide for things and cases which, from the point of view of ordinary Danes, may not really have anything to do with it. It is a bit the same here: that one is convicted in a way that now makes the Danish government seem compelled to limit the possibilities for the police to use various forms of logging in relevant cases. Just to be clear, it's a very, very useful tool for the police to be able to expose criminals. Let me just mention the bomb blast against the Danish Treasury, where this information played a relatively important role in precisely finding out who had done it, and it was also found out on the basis of among other things. That. There's the killing of Nedim Yasar, who was a terrible thing. He was a former gang member, and it was important that he could perform and use his freedom of expression, etc. etc. out of that environment. Some of the information we are talking about today also succeeded in finding out who had committed it, and there has been a subsequent case. On the whole, in 2019 it is the case that, according to the information I have, it has been used 4,000 times, which means that it is really in the heart of what the police need to be able to solve crime in Denmark for the benefit of all the law-abiding people we have. The vast majority of Danes are completely law-abiding and want us to solve crime. Of course, this is a matter of legal certainty and a matter of privacy, and that is what we are discussing here today. I have to admit that when I look at what has come out of it by the government, the legislative proposal that is here today, it is, of course, quite complicated, as several people have said, and that is also why we have a technical review this week, when we come a little closer to some nobler parts of these things. But basically we are worried about in the Danish People's Party, if we handicap the police in finding out who has committed crime, and there is this information, as I said, really important. It can be something like that with the use of phones by criminals, that is, the historical use of phones in the past. It could be that you've used a phone near the crime scene and that you can therefore be linked to different things. It may be that you have had phone contact with the victim in some context, and it may be a clue that you can then go after from the police. And if we handicap the police so that we can no longer get such information in our daily work, it is of course deeply critical, and that is what we want to ask a lot about from the Danish People's Party: Do we treat the police too much so that we cannot solve crime, organised crime, also in Denmark? Then it's deeply critical, and then it's deeply foolish. That is where I really want to end. A foolish ruling by the European Court of Justice means that we can risk disabled Danish police and Danish law-abiding citizens in ensuring that criminals get their verdict. It is critical and it is something that we must discuss very intensively here in the Folketing. It is both with the technical examination, as I said, and with committee questions to ministers, and perhaps with consultation, to find out where we really stand in relation to this, and then we have to take it from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123151337	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123151343	Thank you so much. I agree with the rapporteur that, of course, as a society, we have an interest in solving as much as possible of the crime that exists and that it is also a question of getting proper tools for it. But there is also this question of whether we are doing so in a way worthy of the rule of law and whether we are doing so in a way that does not violate citizens' rights. And that is where I think we go too far. But what I would like to ask the rapporteur is that the rapporteur himself is now saying that it is absolutely essential to have these logging data in relation to the investigation of cases. I think we have seen examples of this not being the case, for example. because there was the telecommunications data scandal, which I am sure the rapporteur also knows very well, and where it was actually considered by the government that logging data was not decisive in any of the cases. There were no court cases to go over; it was concluded, but that was not the conclusive proof. I would therefore like to hear what the rapporteur has to say about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123151443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123151445	It has to be said that both things can be right. It may well be that the fact that you have had wrong information, so there are some distance changes, as you find out what the teledata case is about, that is, that there has been wrong information inside the picture, does not necessarily mean that it is another perpetrator you find. However, the linking of historical data to the fact that a perpetrator has been at a crime scene at some point in time can be a really important part in demonstrating that he is guilty. That it's not exactly what you use in court, but it's just something that's led the community or the police on the trail of the perpetrator, isn't it? So it's really just to say that both things can be right. And I do not think I want to take on my conscience, that we are voting in favour of something in the Folketing that makes us, for example, that we are voting in favour of it. can't solve the bomb attack on the Treasury on Østerbro or the murder of a former gang leader. I don't think I can take that on my conscience, and that's why we need to discuss this basically in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123151553	Here you go to Mrs Eva Flyvholm for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123151558	But the teledata case showed exactly that you don't really have to place too much emphasis on these logging data. However, when we talk about conscience, how does the rapporteur feel about standing as a legal rapporteur in a case where it actually says that there is such a significant procedural risk in this draft law that it does not actually respect human rights, fundamental human rights? It is also a matter of conscience that we need to take stock of as a politician in adopting a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123151628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123151629	But the question is who defines human rights. So, is it the European Court of Justice that, from a judgment that, for me, is not very much about Denmark, but is about something quite different? Is it the European Court of Justice that should define for us what is human rights, that is, ordinary law and law, for our people? Is that what should define that law-abiding citizens must look at hardcore criminals walking free? I don't think so. And there is probably a fundamental difference between Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti, where Enhedslisten tends to handicap the police with regard to something quite fundamental that makes us unable to solve serious crime, while I do not want to be a part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123151709	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123151737	Thank you for the floor. There is, of course, much that can be said about this proposal, which is also quite extensive, and not least about the process around it. After many years of waiting for a revision of the logging rules, we finally got a process plan for it. But as much disappointment was enough when we discovered that the new rules continue in a large way: the logging and thus the monitoring of all of us. A monitoring that we in the SF think you as non-criminal citizens have the right to be free from. And it must also be said that although there are 188 pages of consultation answers and 114 pages of consultation notes, it does not seem that the government has listened very much to the harsh criticism made by a large number of organisations. On the contrary, the government is proposing to continue the general and undifferentiated logging. It is true that the draft law states that the general and undifferentiated logging must take place when there is a threat to national security. However, the information must be stored for a whole year at a time, and it is the government itself that, together with, for example, The Center for Terror Analysis will assess whether there is a terrorist threat. That is what they have been assessing since 2014 and it may make me question whether it is concrete. One might well imagine a shorter demarcation than one year, so that if the serious threat persists then there will be an opportunity to extend the injunction, including a new judicial system. That could be a specific amendment. But more importantly, when the telecommunications companies log the information in connection with national security, they must also be able to be used in the case of serious crime. That is to say for quite a different purpose than they have been collected for, and it is contrary to EU law, which only allows mass logging in relation to national security. It is also clear from the comments made on the draft law that there is a significant procedural risk, and in my years as a legal rapporteur I have never come across that wording. I have encountered a process risk, but not a significant process risk, and I do not think that is so reassuring. There is also a provision on targeted logging in the event of serious crime, but it will only be relevant if there is no longer a serious threat. And even if you move on to the rules on this targeted logging, it is so wide that the telecommunications companies can be required to log areas equivalent to 15-20 per cent. of Denmark's total land area, i.e. an area corresponding to Sjælland and more than half the population. At the same time, the government is proposing that the criterion for the definition of serious crime should be changed, so that it also applies to crime, which provides a penalty of six years and up, to now be a penalty of three years and up. And I actually interpret this as an extension and not a demarcation of the logging rules. And I'm not alone in this criticism. Indeed, the criticism of the consultation answers comes from a large number of organisations which criticise both the lack of proportionality in relation to the interference, wrongdoing and the right to privacy, and then, of course, the conflict in relation to EU law with the so-called significant procedural risk. So it is not just in the hearings that the criticism speaks its clear language. Several organizations have actually found it necessary to write an open letter to parliament's politicians and put a full page ad in national newspapers in order to shout a guard in the rifle. The appeal was inter alia: from Amnesty International, IDA, Justitia, Magistrene, Prosa, Danish IT lawyers, Civil Rights Foundation, Danish Lawyers, Legal Policy Association and researcher Hanne Marie Motzfeldt. And I very much agree with their appeal. Of course, the police must be able to investigate serious crime and protect our country from terrorist attacks, and the police have, in recent years, been given a wide range of tools, for example. facial recognition at airports, license plate recognition at border crossings and bridges and the possibility of camera surveillance at critical locations. And with a warrant in their hands, they have been able to monitor cell phones. But that with this proposal we all need to be suspicious and monitored is unacceptable. And then, finally, I can point out the problem that the Ministry of Justice itself is actually saying that this, with the major procedural risk, could lead to a build-up in the courts. Because if this ends up being presented to the European Court of Justice by a defender, a lawyer, then the consequence may be that this is just plugging together in the criminal proceedings chain. And that only raises a problem for our courts, which have already suffered too many things to deal with. I don't think it's passed anyone's nose that SF can't really support this bill. Normally we would be able to support an improvement, but we do not really think this is an improvement. There are plenty of extensions in it, and we cannot support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123152258	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123152303	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur if the SF now has the position on logging, that is to say it is something that must be completely abolished, whether it does not give rise to concerns about the cases I mentioned, such as child abduction, arson, murder cases, drug transport, and we can, of course, supplement with hundreds of cases where the most important and the hardest evidence against those convicted is logged information. Is it all right with SF that they get easier games to go free?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123152340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123152341	We have, of course, proposed that we do the same thing as we do in Austria, that is to say, when something criminal happens, we do what is called emergency insurance. An emergency assurance will then result in the data being collected and actually held in relation to criminal proceedings, and that is something quite different from logging all Danes' data. So it will be more targeted at those who actually do the crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123152407	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123152408	Hopefully I got it wrong, because how could you secure something that is not already secured? If there was a murder yesterday, however, it was best that we already had legislation that logged and ensured that the information was available. We cannot ask the telecommunications companies today to log if they did not do so yesterday. So we're gonna need the information that was there. So when there is no logging, there is also the information to be obtained.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123152441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123152442	However, the telecommunications companies log for accounting reasons in order to calculate what is to be paid for, and that is why the information is available. And it will be a completely different situation to ask them to hand them over because there has been some specific incident than if you decide to log all the Danes' data for a very long time. I think that is quite a different situation, and that is why our proposal was actually to do what is being done in Austria.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123152511	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123152521	Thank you very much. We're talking about logging here. It is, of course, when it is registered that we as citizens call each other, text each other, write each other, and the data that is stored is who we are in contact with, when, how long and where we are. So logging can be boiled down to that it is monitoring, and such a general and undifferentiated logging is mass monitoring. And this kind of mass surveillance is contrary to EU law, that is to say illegal. After all, the Danish logging rules have been so at least since 2016. It can therefore be said that it is also positive that we are now looking at the legislation, but I have to say that what the government has put forward in this bill does not make me quite safe. There are several reasons for this. I should like to mention some of them here. Firstly, the whole question of targeted logging. In the Radical Left we have a concern that the targeted geographical logging can simply become so extensive that it is precisely to be regarded as a general and undifferentiated logging. It is not, of course, a concern with which we are left alone. You just have to browse through the consultation answers to see that a number of organisations have the same concern. It is precisely in relation to this general and undifferentiated logging that the European Court of Justice points out that, if it is a limited period of time, it is possible to do so. The period of time must therefore be limited to what is absolutely necessary and logging must not become systematic. It's just gonna happen in these extraordinary situations. But there is nothing extraordinary about Denmark having the same threat assessment next year as we have had over the past seven years. Once again, this is not a concern with which we in the Radical Left are left alone; once again, you just have to dive into the hearing answers to be confirmed that there are many about this concern. Secondly, there is the whole question of the definition of serious crime. Logging must be done to combat serious crime, but not crime in general. This serious crime has so far been crimes with a minimum penalty of six years and, as we read the bill in the Radical Left, this is a three-year relaxation. On top of these things comes the government's own assessment that there is a significant process risk associated with the bill. So there are many things here that we in the Radical Left see as highly problematic, and that is why we cannot support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123152815	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123152827	Thank you. As citizens, we all have the right to privacy, and if the state systematically monitors us and registers our movements around society, then it is illegal. That is why it is absurd in many ways that we are standing here today in the Danish Parliament and discussing a proposal from the country's Minister of Justice, which is, in fact, by all accounts, illegal. So we have a bill here, yes, it is a proper $200-page bill that clearly intends to continue illegal surveillance and logging of our phone calls and text messages, a proposal that is in direct violation of human rights. The funny thing is, too, or the sad thing, one might say that for the Minister of Justice, this is actually a pure confession case, because the bill says very, very well that there is a significant procedural risk. This simply means that both the Minister and the officials who have written the bill are well aware that what is being proposed here is probably illegal. But you just want to keep going and continue this illegal logging until you get busted for it again. In an ordinary trial, such an intention to commit crime would often be seen as an aggravating circumstance. It may be said that it should also apply to Parliament and to the Ministers of Justice that if you go ahead with this law, which shows so much is not within the framework of respect for human rights, then the trap should therefore applaud something harder, because there is a complete clarity in human rights that non-differentiated and general logging should not be allowed. It's been years since we're back in 2016 that the European Court of Justice ruled that logging telecommunications data in Denmark is deeply illegal. There was nothing to rabble about in relation to the fact that the practice that has taken place has thus been illegal. From the side of the Enhedslisten we have taken this up many times and called for something to happen, and year after year, the Minister of Justice and the Ministers of Justice of successive governments have said: Ah, but tomorrow there will be a good solution, or next year there will be a good solution. And then it's been postponed year after year. So we are here today with what I have to say is a piece of legislation which simply does not ensure that it complies with the rules, which do not ensure that fundamental human rights are respected and which simply means that the Danish State will continue to practice illegal practices against its citizens, and I do not think we can be aware of adopting this kind in the Folketing on the basis of absolutely fundamental legal principles. It must also be said that, in practical terms, this is quite likely to be a very expensive mess too, and that is why there is not really a single positive consultation answer in this very, very large pile, and it is also the telecommunications companies that think it is a joke. So come on, dear sir. Minister of Justice, from Enhedslisten's side, we think this is a dome. It is absolutely crucial that this is done in a way that is both practical, capable of functioning and respecting the principles of human rights, which ensures that the citizens of Denmark are not monitored and logged illegally. So it's quite basic. A large number of the examples that are problematic have already been mentioned. If I just have to touch on a few of those who also make it very easy for it to be overruled, even at the European Court of Justice, then it is, first of all, the fact that we are actually saying, and that is also something that is crucial in terms of whether it is possible to say that it is up to human rights, that there must be a proper legal body that decides when citizens should be monitored and whether this is justified. There isn't here. It will be up to the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Industry to sit and piss with it for himself, and all respect for that work, but it is not therefore an independent judicial body that is involved in taking a position on it. It is, of course, also a very big problem to continue with the general logging, which is precisely what has already become illegal. You just keep doing that, and you say, "Oh, yeah." Apparently, it is always a very, very special and extraordinary state. And so now I'm running out of time... a whole host of other problems. We will have ample opportunity to address this, it might be said, in the urgency of the next week's debate here. However, as I hope has emerged, the Enhedslisten is opposed to this bill, just as we have also opposed the illegal logging that has been carried out so far. We would very much like to fight hard to restore a serious state of law and ensure that human rights are respected. We would like to invite and encourage the Minister of Justice to do the same. It is probably not 200 new pages of evasive maneuvers that are needed here. This requires a real stop to illegal logging, and we think that our community of law deserves that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123153402	Thank you to Mrs Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Britt Baker. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123153421	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing here today aims to amend the Danish rules on recording and storing telecommunications data so that they comply with EU law. For the Conservative People's Party, it is crucial that the police can fight crime and that we in Parliament ensure that the police have the very best tools for combating crime. Traffic data is one of the tools used by the police. We believe that in Denmark we should go as far as possible within the framework of EU law, so that the police and the authorities have the best opportunities to ensure the safety of the Danes. We therefore support the fact that the National Police can impose on providers that targeted personal and geographical registration and storage of traffic data can be carried out in order to combat serious crime. We also support the obligation imposed on providers to record and store information on users' access to the Internet in a general and non-discriminatory manner. It is important, among other things. in relation to national security. As part of this bill, a holder of the so-called speaking time cards will have to be registered in the future. It makes good sense that you can no longer have a speaking time card as anonymous. It is well known that anonymous prepaid cards have been widely used in shady shops such as drug trafficking. I would very much like to acknowledge that the Minister has listened to the business community and to the consultation responses of the telecommunications providers and has made a number of changes to the original draft law. But we're not quite there yet. With the bill as it stands, the telecommunications companies are required to report CPR numbers to the 118 database. For many providers this will mean the creation of new IT systems, which is not a negligible cost. We need to look at whether we cannot make it smarter and cheaper so that we do not impose such high costs on business. In addition, the draft law distinguishes between when logging data should be provided and when non-loginal data should be provided. This distinction also entails a high cost for telecommunications companies, since they must have new IT systems or create a new filtering function. We must also have a discussion with the Minister about this. So summa summarum: For the Conservative People's Party, the Danes' security and the fight against crime are very important. We therefore support the position of the Minister for Justice to go as far as possible in relation to the EU ruling, but we have some unresolved issues in relation to the economy and the financial burden imposed on companies. I would therefore like to call on the Minister to discuss how we can find a better solution to those points.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123153726	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123153731	Now, of course, we have had occasion in the past to be about the principles of respect for human rights and so on. I certainly think that is worth dwelling on. However, here I would like to ask the Conservatives' rapporteur how it looks with the industry's concern that this is probably something that is not going to work in practice, which is going to be very complex and which will hardly last because there is an expectation that it does not actually comply with EU legislation, and that is also in the proposal that there is considerable procedural risk. How do you feel about Conservatives? Because whether it is the industry or the state that is going to pay in the end, if you are going to change everything and you have to pay a lot of compensation for illegal practices, then it is a little something worse to make some legislation that is so likely not to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123153829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123153831	Yes, it will of course be something worse if the state is about to pay back a lot of money. I have taken note of the hearings and concerns that have come from the industry. Of course I do. It doesn't change the fact that when the Ministry of Justice believes that this can be done, however, with a process risk I have also noted that we support the Conservative People's Party. I'm really sorry about this verdict. We need to try to adapt the legislation accordingly. I think that's a very good answer the Minister of Justice has found here, and we support that. It is no secret that we think that we should go as far as we can to ensure the safety of the Danes, and there is therefore logging one of the tools used by the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123153919	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123153921	If you look at the history, it is indeed the case that the Ministry of Justice has, on several occasions, considered this to be in order, and you have then been able to see that no, it has not actually been after all, because these judgments have fallen. That's why the industry is worried. What does the rapporteur think about the fact that before it is finally adopted here and now it has been a very compressed process, for example. Did a hearing in which we actually invited some of the parties to sit here and give their opinion? The Ministry only gave them a few days here. Shouldn't we together do a more serious process for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123153956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123153957	But in the few days, at least there has been a consultation note of 114 pages. I have gained a great deal of knowledge by reading the 114-page consultation note, and I feel abundantly enlightened. We understand that there is a procedural risk, but it is no secret that we find it problematic that this judgment has been handed down. We are prepared to run a process risk, and that is why we are supporting this bill. We are therefore fighting for the safety of the Danes, and we are fighting for the best possible tools for the police so that they can investigate, among other things. cross-border crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123154034	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123154053	I have just become an alternate on a short notice for our legal rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Vermund, and would just like to say that New Citizens cannot support this proposal and that Mrs Pernille Vermund will explain it during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123154108	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I do not see any more rapporteurs present in the Chamber who wish to speak here during the debate, so I can give the floor to the Minister for Justice. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123154125	It's a special situation and a sad day when the criminals can cheer and the rest of us can cry. I would have preferred us to continue with the general and undifferentiated logging that is taking place today. If you think it is an abuse, you must think that we are living in an unfree Denmark today, because that is what is happening today. Unfree Denmark is what we are? I don't think anyone really means that. Why is it that I so much want us to keep doing this? These are precisely the reasons which Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen pointed out. Telecommunications information is valuable both in police investigations and in subsequent criminal proceedings. These are valuable evidence, and they are valuable elements for solving crimes. And what is happening is that we are now taking an opportunity to collect evidence from the police, we are taking the opportunity to achieve justice from the victims, and we are taking the feeling of reasonableness from all of us. Then there are those who say: is that not a violation of privacy? So that is what is happening today. I think you should try to imagine it, as Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen also did so brilliantly, namely a situation that, for example, did. takes place in an outlying area or in some of the other 80%. of Denmark's area, which will not be subject to geographical logging. This is a situation in which we are in a targeted logging process, and there are plenty of people who are not subject to personal logging. It will actually be relatively few who are. Let us see the picture that a young woman is being raped in that area. There are problems with solving it, problems with prosecuting the perpetrator and problems in getting justice. Do you not think the young woman, her loved ones and her family will feel that their privacy has been violated? Doesn't she, while she's being raped, feel that it's a fairly severe interference in her private life? I think so. You may disagree with that, but I think so. Then it has been said or suggested that when the information is logged, you can just take it, then the police can just use it, and then you can just bring it into the files, but that is not the case. There is the historical mast information: Where was the phone? The historical mast information is those covered by our edition rules. There are different conditions to be met, but it requires a court order to obtain the information. So in every case there is a judge who has to go in and say: yes, it is relevant, the conditions are met and they can be used in that case. This also applies to the telephones that have been connected with each other, i.e. what will be an interference in the secret of communication. It also requires a court order. So it's the same thing here. So when there are some who today from the platform have suggested that if logging is being carried out, we are being watched, and then you can just take that information, I just have to point out for the sake of history and completeness that a judge needs to come in and say it's okay. Some people have said today that the police must also be able to investigate matters and that this is important. I have to say it sounds a little hollow. How many rapes will one accept to win the prize that logging will be smaller than today? How many stalking cases will you accept? How many arson? How many killings? Is it worth it? We are doing a general and undifferentiated logging in Denmark today. So to some of the comments that have been: the Left says, and the Conservative People's Party also says, that we have to look at the costs, that we have to assess the price there is. I agree that we will have to do this in future work. Imagine: we are here with a bill in which we help the criminals, and then the state and the business community will have to pay for it. That is what we get out of the European Court of Justice's judgment. That's crazy! It doesn't belong anywhere, but we have to. Then it has been stated a few times that this is where there is a sharpening, that is to say, more logging. Look, it's not that simple. We ease the crime requirement on telephone information, i.e. typically, who talks to whom, from 6 years to 3 years. Well, there's a reduction. However, what one forgets to say when one points to this is that, with regard to the edition, that is, when the phone was at a certain time, we are raising the crime requirement from 0 years to 3 years in order to ensure that there is a framework that EU law requires. By the way, I think that the thing about the fact that you would rather have emergency insurance was super fun. You can only make emergency security if there is general and undifferentiated logging. So we also have to accept the logging in that rush. Then it has been said several times: this is a proposal in which the government is prepared to take a significant procedural risk if we get it implemented by a majority in the Folketing, which is fortunately indicated. Then it will also be the majority who are prepared to take a significant procedural risk. However, it is the assessment that the draft law is within the scope of EU law, and it is not an assessment that we are left with alone. The highest administrative court in France, the Conseil d'État, has the same assessment. There'll be cases where we get answers to how it's gonna come off. However, we accept that, in order to be able to continue to prosecute criminals in Denmark, we are prepared to take a significant procedural risk. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123154831	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are a number of brief comments to the Minister of Justice. First, it is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123154838	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Justice to the fact that it is not just some people who do not think that logging is okay. It is about our fundamental human rights and those who have declared that it is an illegal practice that is happening in Denmark are all judges sitting in the European Court of Justice and in the Court of Human Rights. I would like to ask the Minister for Justice to confirm that for the sake of good order, that is to say, that this is the case before you just brush it off with some people doing it. I think it is absolutely essential that we do what we can to prevent serious crime, that we do what we can, also to prevent it from happening, but frankly, it is also the responsibility of a Minister of Justice to ensure that this happens in a way that respects our fundamental rights as citizens. And that is what we are calling for here and asking for to be done better. I would also like to hear from the Minister for Justice whether it is not true that a number of EU countries have actually changed their approach to this area, following these judgments that said it was illegal and that they still have the opportunity to solve crimes in countries such as the United States. Holland.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123154950	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123154951	Neither the questioner, Mrs Flyvholm, nor I can answer whether it was an agreed European Court of Justice, because, as the questioner also knows very well, one of the problems we have with the European Court of Justice is that we should not see dissidents, that is to say, that we should not be open about what reflections have taken place. We in the Social Democratic Party find that secrecy shameful. We think it should be possible to see the disinstances at the European Court of Justice. Incidentally, I think that the fundamental problem here is that the European Court of Justice creates justice without democratic legitimacy. They're just judges. Why should they be allowed to decide what should be the political situation in Denmark? Why should some who have no democratic legitimacy be allowed to decide? I just don't understand. I cannot understand at all why the Enhedslisten, which is a party which is very concerned about democratic processes, thinks it is quite fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155047	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155049	There I must inform the Minister for Justice that, for example, we are. It seems that human rights, which protect our right as citizens not to be systematically monitored by the state, are quite central to us. But now that the Minister himself thinks that we should not be closed down and that we should not shut ourselves down, I would like to hear the Minister for Justice: is it the case here that the citizens can see who has been logged? Is it the case that as a citizen you can see on what basis your data has been logged and recorded? That would be really fine, because it is actually some of the things that are being called for. Is it possible to ensure that the information is made available and that an independent body also gets in on it, so that it is not just the Minister of Justice who has it? I'd like to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155132	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155133	I simply do not want to buy the premise that I should be taken as an income for the fact that human rights are not central. If there is one party in this Parliament that has fought for human rights historically and does so every day, it is the Social Democracy, par excellence. I just think that when the European Court of Justice starts to move the borders, then we should shout guardly in arms.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155159	The next brief remark is to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155204	As I have said on several occasions, I have never heard that there has been a proposal in the past where there is a significant procedural risk. So I would like to know how much probability the Minister of Justice imagines there is that Denmark is losing a possible case in EU law about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155225	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155225-2	It is basically a legal assessment, in which we have to take the facts that may be in a case and stop the law that exists and then deduce what becomes applicable law. The problem that makes it uncertain here is that with the European Court of Justice you do not know what the law is, because they find it on the way they find it on the way! They do not need to see it in the Treaty; they do not need to see it in secondary legislation; they do think of it as they please. That is, of course, the problem of a dynamic court. It is that the influence we, as politicians, have, which has democratic legitimacy, has been taken away from us for the benefit of judges. So, of course, it is difficult to measure exactly what may be the specific percentage risk.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155313	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155314	Well, there are some other countries that have approved some models. So I'm thinking that you could take that as a starting point. But I still think that when you choose not to write that there is a process risk, but that there is a significant and I think that there is an increased risk that we will lose a case on the basis of this bill, and I do not understand at all that the Minister of Justice will embark on that path. Why not be on the safe side?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155358	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155358-2	Well, it's because I don't like the criminals; it's because I'm with the police. That is why I am willing to accept a process risk. But it is true, as the questioner says, that when there is a significant procedural risk, the risk that we will be judged is the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155419	The next brief remark is to Mr. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155420	I regret to the Minister that I am running around like this, but we are a small party. I ask questions here, then I run down to committee meetings and then I come back and therefore I did not get on the platform either. I am, of course, sorry, but everyone knows our position and we do not support the proposal. The Minister said in his speech that it is a sad day. I would actually like to ask whether it is the Minister's view that the bill restricts logging.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155454	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155455	Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155501	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155502	Then I would like to hear the Minister, because the Minister refers to the fact that there is always a court order. I think the Minister said that in his speech when collecting data. There's always a court order when you collect data. Has it ever happened that a judge has said no? Has it ever happened by a court order that a judge has said no?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155530	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155531	What I referred to is the procedure that happens with mast information, so where was the phone?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155546	The next brief remark is to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155551	Thank you. A few of the previous rapporteurs have referred to an advertisement in the daily press and to a letter that has been sent to us, with the same text, which comes from some organisations which apparently have the means to advertise extensively, as happened. The argument in the ad here and now I quote from there: "The police must, of course, have good conditions to investigate serious crime and secure our country against terrorist attacks. In recent years, the police have been given a number of technical tools such as: facial recognition at airports, license plate recognition at border crossings and bridges and the possibility of camera surveillance at critical locations, and with a referee&#x2;rendering in hand has the possibility of monitoring mobile phones. May I just ask: if you take a specific example with a girl who is being raped in a forest, or the example of the arsonists in Fjerritslev, or whatever it is, what helps facial recognition at airports, license plate recognition and camera surveillance in critical places, then in relation to the investigation of such crimes, and what does the Minister actually think of organisations using these examples? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155700	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155701	It doesn't help anything in these situations. However, fortunately, over the last few years we have been able to give the police even better opportunities to solve crimes, and we have been able to give the police better tools to catch those who are outside the rules that apply in our country. Are we at the end of the road? Oh, no! We need a lot more money to give the police good opportunities to solve crimes. I can see that I still have some time, so I'll say: I've seen the letter, but I've only just had the opportunity to skim it. I saw that there were a number of organisations mentioned, which struck me, but it may be that there are members of some of the organisations that had not just seen their quota money going to it, but that is something that must be taken within the organisations.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155756	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155758	To take the latter first: this morning I have just asked one of the organisations whether the signatory represented the organization. You have not just had time to answer that question. However, one of the arguments that the police already have some very good means is that with a warrant in hand you have the opportunity to monitor mobile phones. Well, doesn't a warrant for monitoring a specific mobile phone assume that there is some suspicion of that person, and can it be used in the general investigation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155830	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155831	At least it may sound as if what is referred to there is real-time surveillance, and in that case what it says is nonsense.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155843	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155848	Thank you. It is crazy, said the Minister from the platform a moment ago. I think it is, but I'm not sure it's the same thing we find crazy. What I find crazy is the fact that there is a significant procedural risk; however, one thing I would like to see the Minister relate to is that the European Court of Justice points out that when logged in general and undifferentiated, it must be for a time-limited period which is absolutely and strictly necessary, while here in the draft law it is proposed that it should be based on one year. How does this harmonize with a limited period of time, which is absolutely necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155929	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123155930	Well, I actually think that's a very good thing. Several of the rapporteurs today have also taken up the fact that we have now had a situation where there has been a serious threat to national security continuously for a number of years. What is the problem is that the European Court of Justice, unfortunately, in its misapprehension, added that it must not become systematic. This means that we can actually find ourselves in a situation where there is a serious threat to national security in Denmark and where we cannot continue with a general and undifferentiated logging, which means that it is not just the ordinary criminals, the rapists, the assassins, the stalkers, etc. who are given free rein. Then the terrorists will be free to play, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123160006	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123160008	However, it may be a political position, as the Minister does, that we really wanted this general logging at all; but we must also consider that there is a ruling by the European Court of Justice, which points out precisely that it should not be systematic. Does the Minister not recognize that it is therefore systematic to introduce this general and undifferentiated log for one year and a threat assessment which, moreover, has been in place over the past many years and is likely to continue in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123160041	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123160043	No, it would be systematic if we were to say that we do so forever, then it would be systematic or if we came forward for a number of years. Then at some point we will come across the wall that says that now it is just so systematic, so that you will be in breach of EU law. Where that border goes is not quite clear, and you cannot know what the European Court of Justice itself thinks about it. It can change that as it pleases tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123160109	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. No one else has asked for the floor. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123160123	The debate is open, and the first speaker is Mr. Kasper Roug of the Social Democratic Party, who can come up here now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123160141	Thank you for that, President. It is the case that we are currently engaged in a comprehensive green transformation of our Danish society. Our goal is clear: We want to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 70% by 2030, and Denmark must be climate neutral by 2050 at the latest. After a recent completion of COP26, it is clear once again that it is a major task that we face not only in Denmark but throughout the world. The global temperature increase must be limited to 1.5 degrees, and we must continue to work for this. In Denmark we take the lead. Since the 2019 parliamentary elections, we have concluded a large number of agreements across the Danish Parliament, all of which have brought us closer to our reduction target: two new energy islands, stop oil and gas extraction in the North Sea, more green cars on the roads, billion investments in public transport, etc. etc. On the basis of many of the initiatives we have taken, we in the Folketing have agreed that of course we work across, and that of course we also work together on it. Last summer we became among other things. agreed to set 16 billion. kr. to support the capture and storage of CO2 We need to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, and we cannot escape the fact that we have to limit the emissions of CO2 to make green fuels. However, this requires that we remove any barriers that may stand in the way of achieving those ambitions. The legislative proposal that we are now considering must remove the barriers in the marine environment law so that we can boost the development of CO2 capture, transport and storage. Specifically, the draft law allows us to store CO2 2 This is not possible today on the basis of the law in force. We therefore authorise the Minister for the Environment to lay down rules that allow it. In addition, we provide the necessary basis for the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply to enter into agreements with other countries on both the import and export of CO2 Finally, we allow Denmark to accede to the amendments to the rules of the London Protocol under the United Nations Maritime Organisation, which allows the export of CO2 We know the technologies to bring us to targets 2030 and 2050, but this requires us to have the legal framework in place, and we do so, among other things. with this bill, which is why the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123160412	Thank you. No one wanted to make brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen from the Left, and he's right here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123160424	Thank you for that, President. What are we waiting for? Storage of CO2 GEUS estimates that in the Danish underground we can store between 12 and 22 billion. t CO2 These are huge numbers. It is 400-700 times Denmark's annual emissions. So the former black oil production can therefore be transformed into a huge green storage industry. So again, what are we waiting for? The answer is actually, the government. 17 months ago, virtually all parties in the Danish Parliament agreed on the Climate Agreement for Energy and Industry etc. 2020. CCS should be an important piece for Denmark here. Catching, transporting and storing CO2 This is all something that requires permits and legislation. So today, 17 months after the political agreement, we're first processing a bill to amend the Marine Environment Act, which is supposed to allow us to use the underground for this. So it's after 17 months. It can then come into force in another 7 months, i.e. this summer, and it's just this little part. It's just not good enough. It is far too much talk about green conversion and far too little action. Businesses must invest in installations to collect CO2 No one will invest without there being any certainty about the framework. Soon we'll be writing in the calendar 2022, and it's at the moment. No investor confidence and therefore no ships ordered for these tasks. The political objective for the start-up of CO2 Left therefore calls on the government for less talk and more action. We're not gonna store CO2 Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123160701	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kasper Roug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123160705	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. It was nice to hear that the Left is so impatient, it is really nice, and there is no doubt that in the context of such a process as this one, and I hope the rapporteur will acknowledge this, it is important that we do it in the right way, so that we are sure that we can, of course, get all the obstacles out of the way. It is now that we are doing so, so that we kick backwards and complain that things are not going fast enough, I would say that I hope that the rapporteur will be able to acknowledge somewhere that we are now on the way, and in seven months' time the business community that the rapporteur is talking about will have the framework that the rapporteur is talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123160744	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123160746	I can so grieve the rapporteur for not having that in seven months' time. There it is just in Denmark legal to use the underground for storing CO2 It is only a tiny corner that you solve after 17 months of waiting. All other frameworks we need to have in place in all sorts of other bodies. There are no licenses for who can bind CO2 It is all foolishness when we consider that this is something on which we politically agree in the Folketing. We need to speed up, this is both green transition and a huge business adventure. The black industry we've had with the oil suddenly becomes one of our big bets. The average Dane has not understood at all how much potential this holds, also in the form of imports of CO2 t CO2 It is so large that it can be a huge business adventure. Norway is in the process, but in Denmark we are still talking about it. It's just not good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123160853	A follow-up remark to Mr. Kasper Roug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123160856	Thank you. I would just like to point out that I have a déjà vu now, because four years ago, as it must be, I was in the same situation where the rapporteur was standing here, where I am standing, and there I heard a little the same thing, namely that we are talking about timetables. We still have to acknowledge that this has to be done in a proper way, and we do not just do that with a snap and at 3, 4 or 5 months. This needs to be done properly, and it is important for the government, it is important for the Social Democrats, that we do this in the very best possible way. This is a little bit of it, it is absolutely right, and the rapporteur must surely talk about the legislative proposal we are talking about now, and not necessarily about everything the rapporteur thinks we should have implemented in the great future.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123160940	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123160943	I don't think I quite understand the question. Three years ago, however, the former government allocated funding for research to this area. Today it is 17 months since all the parties of the Folketing, with the exception of one party, agreed that this is what we were going to do. Since then, virtually nothing has happened. That is why I just have to draw the attention of the Socialist rapporteur to the fact that if the rapporteur believes that the political objective for us to be in the process of binding CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161022	The next brief remark is to Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161026	[Sound emission]... It is so when there is some new technology that we are also very fond of it in the Danish People's Party. So, didn't the Left even think about this, that when you're going to do this and it sounds really exciting and something like that, you just have to do it? We're just gonna go out there. We're gonna drive at 200 km/h. And then just leave everything back. We just have to get started. Well, I think what we're doing here is the beginning: we've set aside money for research and hope this is possible. Anyway, calm down! Now it must also be done in a good way so that we do not save the climate and harm anything else. We need the expertise available. So we are now fairly calm in the Danish People's Party, and we really think that it is a good deal we have made. We also hope that this will succeed, but we should not be so hurrying so much that we are completely blinded and thinking neither about the environment nor anything else. After all, does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161119	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161121	Thank you, President. Well, I understand that this is probably one of the first times that the Danish People's Party's rapporteur on the environment sees this case-making. And that is why I believe that the rapporteur actually finds it rather complex and wild and wonders whether this can really be done and whether it is right. Yes, it can be done. You already do it today. The technologies are known. What the industry is waiting for is the Folketing. And the rapporteur's party's climate negotiator has given the green light to this. So this is basically a tiny bill, which must give the necessary permission for us now to pump gas and store the gas in the underground, just as the underground has been storing the gas for millions of years. Now we pump it back and tie it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161212	Here you go, sir. Mr. René Christensen for a deepening.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161216	Well, we kind of agree with that. That is also why we have entered into the agreement, and that is also why we have helped to set aside money for research. But that's just the way to say, the a little excited mood that comes in here on a late afternoon when we're about to get started on this. Because there is no doubt that if we succeed in doing so in the right way and the underground in those places, this is the solution, and then the green transition can actually go faster, because we will also have a head start over the next 30-40 years, where we can actually drive a little slower in relation to the green transition, because we can then store some CO2 then the rapporteur does not agree that the decisions we have taken together are not so small even?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161255	I fully agree with the rapporteur. The decisions we have taken together, as the rapporteur says, are not so bad. But this is something we've decided on, so we just have to act on it. In other words, the government just has to move... it shouldn't sit on its hands... and then start delivering on what we have politically agreed. So we need to bring the process forward if we are to achieve the political objective we have agreed on. There are some parts of the process that cannot take as long as it has done historically in any case.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161330	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161335	I think the rapporteur makes it sound like CO2 in the Enhedslisten we have such that a shift in our energy consumption to renewable energy and to work targeted on energy savings in such a way is more important than relying on us just to store as much as possible CO2 It also takes some energy to collect CO2 So I think that the weighting on the storage of CO2 I just allow myself to be a little critical of all this storage. I think that other parts are more important and we have a problem with so many things that can happen in a few years' time. We really need CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161435	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161438	Thank you. I kind of agree with Enhedslisten that we need CO2 I have seen that there are green organisations that have talked about just planting trees, but there is no room to plant as many trees in Denmark as this effort can make up. Here we can actually make a difference, and it is not each other's opposites. We have to act here and now, we have to make climate forests and greener cars and everything that we are doing and talking about, but we will not get around this if we are to deliver on the Paris agreement and the 1.5-degree target. We need to take some CO 2 2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161532	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161534	That conclusion is not correct. We are, in fact, very concerned about what it is, the increased CO2 2 It can sometimes be difficult here in the Parliamentary Chamber like to come up with: it's this technology that saves us. Does the rapporteur agree that a high CO2 2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161609	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161611	I hope that the rapporteur has not lost sight of the fact that the Left has been out to propose a CO2 but once again it has to be said that it is a government in which you are foot-to-mouth. It's a government where it's slow to roll out the things we're talking about, and that's why it's fine that if you just have to throw the towel in the ring and say that this is too hard to handle and solve right now, then we have to act on some of the things that lie right to the right, and it does this, among other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161647	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161651	Thank you. Now the rapporteur said that we could import CO2 Is the rapporteur not concerned that the Danish subsoil at sea will be such a CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161715	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161717	You don't have to recognize science. You don't have to acknowledge when GEUS says there's this potential. We do not need to recognise that the oil has been stored for 20 million. years in the underground and that this can be done. You can measure it. You can do it all, but nevertheless you should speed up the pace compared to the first demonstration projects that can document it here. And no, we're not gonna be a dump. It's kind of like we can't have windmills to power Germany or something. So, of course, we have to take advantage of the fact that we have a unique underground in Denmark that can deliver this as one of the very few countries in the world. Of course we have to deliver on it, and we have the technology; we just have to get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161809	Here you go, Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161813	Thank you. Now the rapporteur has mentioned earlier that there have been some NGOs that have been out and worried. Does the rapporteur not take this a little seriously? And what about the example from Canada, where after five years you can actually only record 60%. of CO2 And how about that science isn't just an objective size? There is Professor Gary Shaffer from the University of Copenhagen who says it is an uncertain and expensive method. So I think that is also a political position.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161849	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161850	The conditions are very different all over the world, and there we have a unique underground in Denmark. We also have to recognise that if we want to achieve the objective of our Paris agreement, it is not enough for the green organisations to have a position that we just have to reduce our consumption, that we just have to reduce our emissions. We're not going to finish like that. It's unrealistic. Then, in terms of objectives, this is one of the tools we need to take, and that is why I am also pleased that the rapporteur himself supports the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161923	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123161942	Thank you for that, President. Well, if you look at the bill here, you could say it was a little funny debate we had just now. Because this is really just about giving the possibility that you can use the underground, among other things. to store CO2 That's all we do today. And then there's not much more in the bill here. We can, of course, vote in favour of this. However, what is of course important in relation to the debate that was there is, of course, how we will use it. But we may have to take that debate another day. Because if you see what happens out there, there is no doubt that it is a great tool to have if you can catch CO2 But then there are others who ask: What else can we do; can CO2 you make fuel from CO2 Can you store it in the underground and take it up again? So the fact that you are now giving the opportunity here is really positive, but it may well be that the technologies for it must be developed in a sensible way, so that when you store something also means that you can use it again. How to store CO2 So we think this is a proposal that provides a framework for us to move forward with our green transition. And, of course, it is important that we then use that framework in the most appropriate way in relation to the challenges we face. So, of course, we can say yes to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123162108	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123162116	Thank you. After all, it was almost quite amusing to see the rapporteur of the Left standing here on the platform talking about foot-to-foot governments and the desire for more action. Although I agree that we must constantly draw the government into action, it is of course nothing compared to what it looked like from 2015-2019, when we had to fight to talk about the climate crisis at all. That's what this is about. The climate crisis is crying out for action. We have just passed COP26, where, despite disappointing decisions, there was in fact also a focus on the fact that we must constantly increase our ambitions and constantly revisit our ambitions in order to succeed with the 1.5-degree target. Action is about us constantly reducing CO2 It's great about the new alliance, the BOGA alliance, the Beyond Oil & Gas Alliance, which Denmark helped to get started, because it is absolutely crucial that reductions take place. But if we're going to achieve a CO2 2 it's not going to replace CO2 that I think is very important to say. It will not replace afforestation and so on. It's gonna come upstairs. We're gonna need all the tools if we're gonna make this happen. It's been said in the past that we have some amazing geological relationship with this CO2 that's a good bill. I am particularly pleased that there has been a great deal of sensitivity in the consultation process and in the concerns that have been expressed in relation to environmental assessments. It is always nice to be able to stand here and say that the consultation process has been used for something concrete so praise to the Ministry of the Environment for it. Of course, we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123162336	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123162400	I can actually be very brief. The Radical Left also supports the proposal. It has not really been negotiated in the environmental field, but in the climate area our climate rapporteur is sitting in the chair today, and I should like to welcome the climate rapporteur and say that the party supports the proposal. As rapporteur for the environment, I have of course also examined whether there could be negative environmental impacts, but that examination has then resulted in the conclusion that there is nothing to worry about. So, in those words, we can endorse the proposal. And since I am here, I cannot help but say that I am very much in agreement with the observations made by the SF rapporteur, Mr SF. Rasmus Nordqvist, came along, namely that there is a need to put turbo on all the tools, and that we therefore need this type of technology, but it does not mean that we can lighten the accelerator in relation to reducing the emission itself. This is absolutely central to us. And I am glad to hear the rapporteur of the Left standing and being so committed in this area; how I wish that commitment was just as great when it came to reducing CO2 I think that I just really have to stress from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament that there are some very big fundamental changes we need to make. That is also what we have started on agriculture, which I and several others here have also negotiated, and it is absolutely crucial if we are to achieve it. But yes, we must also use this type of tool if we are to achieve it, because we really do have a short time horizon.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123162536	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Thomas Danielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123162540	Thank you. I was only just pressing when the rapporteur almost proposed to the Left in enthusiasm that we should also do something about the reductions. I fully agree, and that is why I would just like to thank the Radical Left for pulling the government together with the Left when it came to it, for example. CO 2 On the other hand, I am sorry that other agreements are made which are more red than they are green, for example. in the field of transport. You don't make the agreements that reduce the most CO2 Keep the focus on getting the CO2 done No, we have to get in and make things where they bat something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123162632	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123162635	Oh, I think that if we were to do a purely cost-benefit analysis on cost-effective CO2 I would just like to take this opportunity to send a question back, and so you have to decide for yourself whether you want to answer it, because it's a little unfair that the questions can also be sent the other way: should this CO2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20211123162712	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123162715	I'm sorry, it might be a little special now that I'm answering questions from down here, but yes, of course a CO2 so yes, of course it has to. So you don't have to make those stereotypes of prejudice just because in the climate negotiations it was thought that agriculture was the only sector that should not be supported for the green transition, just as we are now doing with CCS and in other industries. So, of course, they should also be supported to make the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123162752	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123162754	I'm just really happy to get confirmation from the Parliamentary Chair today or it happened so from the Parliamentary Chamber that the Left also believes that a uniform CO2 2 It is absolutely crucial, and it is also different from what I have actually heard from agriculture, but I am so glad that the Left also has, one can say, an independent attitude to the issue and not only lies up against agricultural organisations.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123162820	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The next speaker is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123162836	Thank you. I think it is nice to see that there has been a public hearing which actually means that there is an environmental assessment that will be carried out so that a legislative proposal can be amended after consultation. The legislative proposal concerns the issue of allowing CO2 to occur when you look at the latest UN report on climate change, we are in the situation of going against a 2.7-degree temperature increase. That is very worrying. In this way, much more climate action is needed than has so far been achieved by the international community. In the situation where you like to see what happens and what doesn't happen globally, you can't write off that a CO2 But for Enhedslisten it's important to say that it's not the main aim of our policy to store as much as possible CO2 We have to work with some real CO2 These are the concrete CO2 If you're going to use this CO2 It's hard to know what it's like for a technology that develops fastest and best, and that's why this is CO2 So we don't have to be experts on all technologies. Well, I wouldn't want to be. It may well be that some pyrolysis and some power-to-x with some fuels we hadn't just imagined, and it may be that something technological happens we can use, but it may be encouraged by the fact that we have a high CO2 so I think it is essential when we have to make decisions about it, to listen to the Climate Council and the level of CO2 per year. t in 2030. I think we often find ourselves in both the energy reconciliation circle and in the Folketing that everything is planned, which in general comes relatively close to 2030, so that we can live up to our climate targets and our climate legislation. I think there is too little, like moving on the short track, and we could also see, when we were discussing 2025 reductions, that the government is lagging behind. There we have to help the government with the possibility of a few more CO2 I think it is important to adopt this bill, and then it is even more important to consider how to use the potential to store CO2 There we have outlined that there should be a call for tenders, but we have also established in those processes that it can actually be something from which the state can get an income. There was a bit of a presentation that just had to be made a call for tenders. No, there must be an invitation to tender which allows the Danish state to make a profit from storing CO2 If you get CO2 2 to store CO2 and we have to take that with you. In such a case, I also think it is essential to look at what these revenues are going to do, and it could be something that could drive the transition to a more sustainable society or to support global solutions, for example. with this climate aid that we're limping into the rich part of the world. It may be that we could find a way of taxing ourselves so that we could help globally. So when Enhedslisten says yes to this bill, it is not with the same enthusiasm that the Left has expressed today. So it is from the point of view of the fact that it is a means that we are taking on the palette and that is not the main thing in energy policy, but it is something that has to be on the palette because climate change is happening so quickly, and with the reports from the United Nations, we must therefore also consider that there is a potential to store a great deal of CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123163315	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. First from Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123163320	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for mentioning a lot of opportunities that we have to reduce our CO2 My question is: does the rapporteur not really believe that if we tightened our buttocks and got our possible action going to reduce our CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20211123163348	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123163351	I think that in Denmark we could achieve the 70-percent target, but there is also something that indicates that the 70-percent target is not enough to live up to the Paris agreement. And then I haven't seen any calculations of how we're gonna get there. If I have to guess, I really think that the potential to store CO2 I do not think it should be part of the Danish energy policy that we are now investing enormously on CO2 It is other instruments that are at the top of the list.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123163431	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123163434	Thank you. Can the rapporteur not be worried that if you get this started and it works, it will be a sleeping pillow in relation to getting the other measures done? And is the rapporteur not concerned that there is a tiny risk of cracks occurring, so CO2 is already under heavy pressure from our marine environment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123163500	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123163502	Well, there's a lot in the world that can make you worried; it's definitely. I'm not a geologist, I'm just a carpenter and a farmer, so I won't be able to tell you if there are any cracks below sea level. I wouldn't rule that out at all. I think it's important to get this CO2 in place. Maybe it's better to keep CO2 so by saying yes to this bill, it's not like we're gonna stand and shame CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20211123163534	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Thomas Danielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123163536	Thank you. I take the floor because the rapporteur repeatedly mentions the enthusiasm for Ptx projects in the context of CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20211123163602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123163605	Well, I'm most excited about CO2 It's like we're going to solve some climate problems, and that's where I think CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20211123163642	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123163645	I fully agree that Enhedslisten is enthusiastic about taxes, including CO2 So if you could catch it smoke and put it into the underground, that is CO2 Because CO2 is still being emitted, can the rapporteur not get it over his lips?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123163723	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123163726	As a semi-old carpenter, I can easily argue that wooden building is far better than cement construction. Cement is great for the foundations, and then it stops there too. In other words, we have adopted some sustainability criteria for construction, where we tighten up on CO2 After all, it will promote sustainable construction, and it is construction with much less concrete. I'm not gonna go along with that because CO2 isn't there. There are other bets that need to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123163756	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123163804	Thank you. And thank you for the floor. 9 million t CO2 of the reductions in 2030; storage of large amounts of CO2 Yes, that is what is at stake, and now finally we need to have the legal basis for storage in place. It is indeed time; we have been waiting for this since the Climate Agreement for energy and industry etc. of 22 June 2020 became a reality. For while several of our neighbouring countries grant high-speed licences, we expect in Denmark that CO 2 will first be distributed The sluggishness means that with the current plan it is unfortunately not realistic that facilities will be established in Denmark that can ensure storage in Denmark as early as 2025, as otherwise agreed. This might mean that the emitters who want to catch CO2 2 Today's bill are crucial, as are the current negotiations on CCS. That agreement must and must ensure both the capture, transport and storage of CO2 CONCITO believes that there is much evidence that CCS provides a cheaper road to CO2 that Conservatives fully agree with. We have also brought it forward in the negotiations and very much hope that the already created uncertainty in relation to the available Danish transport of storage capacity especially does not prevent the largest emitters in Denmark from initiating the capture of CO2 If that happens, we have failed, and then we have not lived up to our agreement on the North Sea, and we have not had any black jobs converted to green jobs. But yes, of course Conservatives vote for L 79. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123164022	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123164033	Thank you. CCS, Carbon Capture and Storage, is an exciting technology that has great potential to reduce CO2 You can pull CO2 and you can also pump CO2 So technologically it is possible. The way in which this is economically and practically linked is something that needs to be looked at. However, it is certainly sensible to create the legislative framework that makes it possible, so that New Citizens can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123164106	Thank you to the rapporteur for the new citizens. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Susanne Zimmer from the Green Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123164124	Storage of large CO2 This is a technology which has not been tested on that scale and which is unsafe and expensive. New research from the University of Copenhagen shows that CO2 Professor emeritus Gary Shaffer, who is in the Climate and Geophysics department at the University of Copenhagen, says that the technology is disputed, both because it is untested on a larger scale and because it requires huge investments. He also says that we may have to use the method. However, in the Greens we say that we should then be aware that we are responsible for the possibility of future problems. There may be a risk of leakage from the underground cavities as the carbon is not in solid form. It will be fluid as soon as it gets far down, but liquid substances can also come up through cracks in the underground. We have seen major problems with the Mexican golf, where there have been explosions, and in Canada, in Boundary Dam, it is so that 50%. Of the time, CCS is running here in the 5th year, and I don't think that was quite the plan. But what could happen if the damage were to happen? Yes, it can have high costs for the environment in the form of leakage, which means that CO2 is released but also nature may be at risk. Oxygen loss, acidification and an increased CO2 portrait of Denmark are already under pressure. The DCE National Centre for Environment and Energy says that seven out of eight of our marine habitat types are in a very unfavourable state, so we should not go to set new things in motion that can create new damage. And it can also harm corals and mussels because there is a chemical reaction which means that they are not getting so good the conditions to reproduce, and they are already very hard pressed. The IPCC estimates that 99 per cent. of the stored CO2 of the stored CO2 This means that if a leak occurs, it is something we leave behind for future generations. They are going to pay for our too big CO2 In addition to the government's plan to use what we in the Free Greens call patch solutions, we are also very concerned that we need to use, in view of the previously mentioned, Denmark as a CO2 It should not be. But we should not export it abroad either, so we place the excessive emissions we have produced in other countries. It may be in Europe, but it could also be in developing countries. Using this solution is a little like saying to your child: Go to your room and clean up. And instead of the baby cleaning up, the child puts the toys under the blanket or under the bed. We need to change our behaviour, we need to have a real CO2 as Gary Schaffer says, it would be better to cut back on coal consumption and reduce our CO2 We cannot be aware of our climate and to future generations that we are using a solution that is expensive and to some extent uncertain in this large scale that we are talking about. We must, of course, use it where it can do good, and it can be like now as hot in our drinks, but not least in the development of power-to-x, where it can be an important component in relation to electrofuels. That is why we in the Green Group do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123164615	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123164622	Thank you. There was something I did not quite understand in the rapporteur's speech. One is how we should act at home in relation to significant reductions that both myself and the Enhedslisten's rapporteur mentioned. We have to act around the world, but the climate crisis is global. Does Mrs Susanne Zimmer think that storage technology should not be used at all to deal with the climate crisis? Does Mrs Susanne Zimmer think that it is realistic that we are only working on reductions without using other tools? I'm talking globally; I'm not just talking about what we do in Denmark, but what we do globally in terms of being able to act on the climate crisis, in terms of being able to meet the 1.5-degree target. Is that really realistic?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123164713	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123164715	I think it is realistic if we make the right decisions and we can start with ourselves in Denmark. For example: The agricultural agreement is not as ambitious as it could be, as is the transport agreement and the waste agreement. If we do not take the lead and set out the solutions that really reduce our CO2 We could be the ones who showed the way and who could export the good solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123164746	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123164749	I just think that Mrs Susanne Zimmer is making the mistake of looking at the climate crisis as a national issue at least in my optics. There is no doubt that we must act. We must act far more than we do today. We must constantly have reductions in our way of producing food, transport, heating, energy, etc. One of the things that also lies in the COP26 agreement is precisely this ambition mechanism that is going to work. But we must also use other tools. And the point I am really calling for in the rapporteur's speech is that we should not just look at ourselves and what we should do ourselves, but that we should actually look at how we can contribute to the global climate crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123164833	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123164835	Well, I really hope that I said that we should be the good example by showing the way to how we can drive our agriculture on without the large CO2 etc. so that countries around the world can see that it is actually possible. We have some ideas that are worth exporting, just as we have with the wind turbines.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123164903	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Thomas Danielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123164907	One can always discuss extraction methods in Denmark and in the United States, etc., one can also discuss storage technologies in Denmark and the United States, but I just do not understand why the rapporteur has to go around the other side of the world to give unfortunate examples. We can also do that in the field of oil extraction; we have been doing this successfully in the North Sea for many years, with a low climate impact, but the rapporteur will certainly not begin to compare with how oil extraction takes place in the United States or anywhere else in the world. Why does the rapporteur not mention that CCS has been created in Norway since the 1990s, without any problems? Can you, for example? find an example that something has gone wrong in Norway with CCS since the 1990s?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123164955	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123164958	I can't find an example in Norway or anywhere else, but I can relate to the scientists and scientists who are worried about this and who then raise some examples, but there may well be lots of good stories around. So I'm talking about the marginal that makes us risk leaving a CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20211123165031	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123165034	However, if the rapporteur were a little concerned about our 1.5-degree target and so on, the rapporteur would probably take it a little more seriously that this is not just about giving free rein to CCS in Denmark. This is the prerequisite for the small demonstration projects in the underground, which have to document exactly what the rapporteur is unsure of. So by voting against this, the rapporteur does not want to acquire the knowledge that can eliminate the uncertainties that exist. I just find it difficult to take this kind of work seriously; I regret that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123165106	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123165108	Thank you. Now this isn't about trying; it's about starting this thing. It is about being able to import and export CO2 and that is what we cannot vouch for and think is a good idea, because there is an uncertainty associated with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123165130	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Free Greens. The next one on the platform is the Minister for the Environment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123165139	Thank you. The draft law that we are discussing today must provide the framework for the legislation that will allow for what has been the discussion here recently, namely CO2 The reason why it is not the only one, but it is absolutely central. As a government, we concluded a broad climate agreement on energy and industry, where CCS is also part of it, and here in June this year also a road map specifically for the storage of CO2 The Climate Agreement must ensure that we precisely achieve our goal of delivering at 70%. In 2030, one of the world's most ambitious climate targets. And the storage potential in the Danish underground, as has also been said, is enormous. This means that we have the opportunity to reduce the amounts of CO2 The reason why we are standing here today is that, although permits for the storage of CO2 2 and it is also prohibited to transport CO2 With the bill, we also authorise the adoption of rules in a regulation which exempts CO2 2 So that we can meet the ambitions that we have for future CO2 2 Therefore, the draft law also empowers the Minister of Climate and Energy to conclude agreements with other countries on the transport of CO2 the United Nations Maritime Organisation, the IMO, has in their London Protocol, the purpose of which is to prevent pollution of the sea by dumping waste, rules on exports of CO2 Denmark have not yet acceded to the rules. In order to be able to export CO2 By the adoption of the bill by the Danish Parliament, consent will be given to accession, and Denmark will, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in accordance with normal practice, accede to the rules. I would also like to mention that the regional sea conventions provide for dumping rules and CO2 under the OSPAR Convention, which covers the North Atlantic area, it is possible to store CO2 This means quite specifically that the convention there allows CO2 but the Helsinki Convention, which is applicable in the Baltic Sea region, does not allow CO2 2 to be created so that the government, in the context of the climate agreement we have drawn up, will make it possible to store it in all parts of Denmark's marine waters, and that is why we will enter into a dialogue with the other countries of the Helsinki Convention on the possibility of amending the Convention. With the climate agreement and with the roadmap I mentioned earlier, it is also a very clear prerequisite, and it is what we have been a little over in the debate that CO2 concrete permits for CO2 but I think it is important to say that all projects will be environmentalised. In Denmark we do not currently have CO2 The international experience we know about is limited, but we do know from the Norwegian projects, which have also been mentioned, and which have also been in operation for a number of years, that the risk of releases from stocks is not very high. But it is clear that, when CO2 is set up, that can be done, among other things. These include disturbances of the seabed, discharges of chemicals, drilling mud, noise and emissions. Also in monitoring stocks there will be impacts from seismic studies which particularly affect fish and mammals. However, the actual impact will depend much on where storage is to take place. For example, is it... In the case of existing offshore installations, the impact is less because there is not to be a feasibility study of the seabed and the subsoil, and drilling and infrastructure is not to be carried out to the same extent as in new installations. The actual impact will also depend on the proximity of endangered species and protected areas, and this will, of course, and must be taken into account in the requirements for storage permits. So, as I mentioned earlier, the environmental impact will be highlighted in relation to the environmental assessment of the specific projects, and I am also pleased with the receipt that has been made on top of the consultation to ensure a general environmental assessment of the rules here. Then perhaps I should like to say, last of all, to the comment that has been made on the timetable, that the work that the government is doing here is perfectly following the agreement that has been reached. This means that from 2022 it will be in place so that from 2025 it will be possible to make CCS in Denmark. That's the plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123165802	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123165806	Thank you. After all, the Minister says that there may be a risk to the marine environment, but that environmental assessments will be carried out. So my question is: will there be consultation processes for each environmental assessment?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123165818	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123165821	I think it is important just to outline the two elements that I mentioned. On the one hand, there is the general environmental assessment, which is about the rules that we are also discussing here today. It must then be in place before the announcement comes into force next year. On the one hand, there are the concrete projects and the environmental assessment that will be of the concrete projects. So we ensure that there is, and there are quite general rules for that. I think we can give a written answer to exactly what elements are included there. I also mentioned a few of the possible environmental impacts and how to deal with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123165856	No one else has asked to speak, so we thank the Minister. The debate is therefore closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I'm sorry there's a little confusing message on the screen behind us, but we're working on getting it away.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123165910	The debate is open. The first speaker is Mr. Kim Aas of the Social Democratic Party with what I also think is his first speech from the platform. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123170000	That's right. Thank you, and thank you for the floor. Fourth Vice-President The charge you are not someone we usually use just to start in a really bad way). Let's start over. Thank you for the floor. The world is changing fast. Technological developments and the green transition are both examples of how the need for skills and knowledge changes more quickly than ever before. This also means that the skills and competences that we acquire when we first train are not the same 10, 20, 30 years after the end of education, regardless of what you have trained for. That is why it is also extremely important that we have a strong and flexible system of qualification to deal with this. This must apply both to the individual who, through continuous and lifelong upgrading, maintains a close and secure link with the labour market, but of course also to our companies, who need specific skills and skills to solve tomorrow's challenges. The green transition is one of the best examples of why a good and well-functioning upgrading system is so important. Indeed, the green transition depends on our being able to develop the skills of many skilled and unskilled people so that they can become the future combat forces of the climate struggle. That is why I am very pleased, and we all are, that the Minister and the parties have recognised the important role of the Veu area in the upgrading effort. In fact, with this bill, we are implementing the agreement on a one-year extension of the tripartite agreement, which strengthens a more flexible adult, continuing training and which the government and the social partners entered into in October. By extending the agreement here from 2017 by 1 year, we will create some calm and stability for the sector. In addition, a number of initiatives have been closed down as a result of the pandemic we are unfortunately still experiencing. They are also given the opportunity to work under more normal circumstances, so we must at least hope that if it does not continue to develop as it is at the moment, then it is a wise decision. In addition, I have also noted that we will return to the negotiations in the spring, when the government and the social partners will discuss the long-term solutions, and here I am also sure that the individual comments that have been made in the consultations will be taken into account in relation to fvu and the digital and the English, which are a little nervous about not getting so much involved in this one-year extension. But I think the Minister will take that into account in the negotiations. At least I look forward to the results. The 2017 extension of the Veu Tripartite also means that we need to extend the sunset clauses associated with the temporary and legal initiatives of the Tripartite Agreement, and then they will also be allowed to work during this one-year extension. Of course, we support this in the Social Democratic Party. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123170256	Thank you very much to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kenneth Mikkelsen from the Left, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123170304	Thank you for that, President. After all, we are discussing a proposal that aims to extend the initiatives covered by sunset clauses in the Veu tripart agreement of 2017, which is an extension of one year. The initiatives will help employers and employees to have access to a solid committee for adult, continuing and further education. The Tripartite Agreement, which is proposed to be extended here, came into being in 2017 under the Left Government, so perhaps for that reason alone we will of course support a 1-year extension. In fact, in the Left, we are in favour of adult, continuing training. It is both good for the individual, but it is also very good for society. We are talking about lifelong learning and, not least, learning to everyone, and it helps to keep the wheels running under society. It is therefore also important that we ensure a good framework for acquiring new knowledge and for building on the knowledge already available. English and IT are some of the skills increasingly sought in the labour market. Part of the consultation answers to the bill revolve around the fact that many unemployed people are aware that they must be able to do digitally and they must be able to master the English language in order to meet the demands of companies. And among the unemployed there has also been great demand for these two subjects during the past period. And so it is also a pity that the Fvu-English and Fvu-digital target group is limited by the bill, so that the unemployed no longer have the opportunity to spend the unemployment period to improve on two of the subjects that are at the heart of getting into employment. The draft law states that the legal situation will be brought back to before the legal amendment in June 2020, which extended the target group to include unemployed people, a legislative amendment based on a political agreement and therefore outside the tripartite agreement. The initiative to extend the target group was only to apply on a temporary basis, it was also decided at the time. But the question is: should we not do something about it now? Why should the unemployed not also have the opportunity to use the unemployment period to strengthen two of the professions which may be the entrance to a job? And I hope that the Minister will enter into discussions about this, and I hope that the Minister will do so already now and not wait until the discussions in the course of 2022. As I said earlier, the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123170559	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123170611	Thank you. The basis for this bill is a tripartite agreement from 2017, which launched a wide range of initiatives aimed at increasing the quality and stability of the public adult and continuing education system and encouraging companies and employees to upgrade. A large number of the initiatives were temporary and were likely to run out to New Year's. In October this year, the parties agreed to extend these agreements for one year. This means that a better basis of knowledge can be created for decisions as to whether the agreements should be permanentised. In this context, the Danish People's Party must call for evaluations to be carried out so that political decisions and necessary legislation can be adopted before the arrangements expire in one year's time. In the evaluation, we also hope that individual actions will be included and that they will affect different age groups, so as to ensure that there are targeted offers and opportunities, not least for seniors, who may have difficulty in maintaining contact in the labour market and in particular in need of retraining. As has also been mentioned earlier, and as has also been mentioned in the consultations, this is also a challenge in relation to English and digitalisation. One thing is that, of course, we assume that as a given thing I will take it up in the course of next year, but it could of course be interesting in relation to the treatment of this bill to see if we can't find any sensible solutions to getting it in so that those needs can also be met. But having said that, the Danish People's Party can support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123170737	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Astrid Carøe from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123170755	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party was so quick that I did not get up here before. Thank you for the floor. For the SF, it is absolutely crucial that everyone has an opportunity to train and that there is also the possibility of lifelong learning. This applies to children, young people and adults, because we need to bring many more than we get today. We know that education strengthens the individual's opportunities for a good life, and we also know that education is one of the most important tools we have, in the development of our welfare society and, above all, in the green transition. Unfortunately, we are still looking into a future where there are many unskilled people, and it is clear that we can do something about that, and we are doing it with this bill. That is why we must also have the best and strongest education system, which can also lift the adults who did not get so much from primary school, or the dyslexic adults who did not get the right tools as children. Of course we must ensure lifelong learning. That is why we in the SF are pleased that the proposal envisages that the many good initiatives in this area will continue in 2022. For we must give people of all ages the opportunity to build competences and to become part of the community in the labour market. We are also very pleased that this area has received more and more attention over the last few years, because it has lagged behind and too many people have been lost to the floor because of it. That is why we are also pleased that with this proposal the government will look into a longer-term solution, and I look forward very much to finding the best solutions together. However, although we in the SF generally welcome the proposal, I am surprised that the 2020 target group enlargement is not extended, as did the Left rapporteur. Frankly, I find it difficult to find the logic of narrowing the target group so that the unemployed cannot access the fvu-English and fvu-digital subjects. It seems to me that these subjects are an essential part of supporting and empowering the short-trained and unemployed and job opportunities. We must therefore be able to accommodate that. With the proposal, we risk losing the unemployed who might need a little extra support to enter the labour market or to get started with training. So in the SF we would like the current scheme to be extended, also in relation to the target group with the unemployed. That is why we have put a question to the committee and are also tabling an amendment so that we can hopefully get everyone on board. With that said, we agree with the proposal in the SF, but we look forward to the further discussion in committee and hope that we can also get the unemployed as they have been so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123171030	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123171038	Thank you. The draft law here extends a number of temporary provisions from 2018 which improve the conditions for participation in adult and continuing education. As can be seen, it was the implementation of a tripartite agreement from autumn 2017, in which we laid the foundations for this, with legislation in 2018. We increased the veu allowance and we increased the rates for adult education support; that was very good action. We were in the Enhedslisten somewhat concerned about how to resolve this when the agreements expired at the end of this year, but fortunately a new tripartite agreement was then concluded in mid-October to extend the improvements which would otherwise have lapsed here in a good month's time. In the tripartite agreement referred to in autumn 2017, it was also agreed to introduce two new subjects for the preparatory adult education. It has already been mentioned: fvu-digital and fvu-English. I have noted and noted that in the tripartite agreement and in the legislation that we subsequently adopted, it was agreed that it should be a business-oriented process and therefore be aimed only at employees who need basic skills in IT and English in their job function. However, as has also been shown, a political agreement was subsequently reached so that access to the two subjects was extended to include the unemployed and to include employees as self-chosen training. It must be understood from the consultations that this has been a great success. There has been great demand among the unemployed for the two new subjects, and we think in the Enhedslisten, in line with others who have spoken here, that it is really a pity if there is no extension of the extended opportunity to take the two subjects. After all, there are many people in the consultation answers who are calling for the group to be maintained and a number, both the social partners together and others, mention the fact, which I think everyone is aware of, that it is becoming increasingly difficult and difficult to fill a place in the labour market if you do not have basic IT skills, and if you do not master English at a reasonable level, then all in all we are sorry that it has not come along. We're not blind that it's about money. I have not understood that the government has a particular desire that the unemployed should not have IT competences and English competences. So I would just like to say that we support the proposal as it stands, but we will also, in the work of the committee, and in the dialogue that is going to be with the minister, press for and very strongly urge the Minister that we get this group with us. We can hardly be aware of extending it here without ensuring that the possibility also applies to the many unemployed who will be able to use these courses as an access to the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123171413	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is the Conservative rapporteur, Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123171427	I can say that the Conservative People's Party is in favour of the scheme. We think it is important that it is extended with the focus on learning throughout life. The economics of how it is put together are always difficult to see through with these tripartite agreements, but we have to rely on that as well as the additional costs it pays to the state. But, like what Enhedslisten has said, it is also important that we look at the group that is not in it. But hopefully we will be able to look at this more in the committee's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123171501	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen for New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123171516	I would also like to say about this bill that I think it sounds positive at the outset, but that I have a whole lot of questions to answer in committee. So it is actually a little the same as many other rapporteurs say.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123171534	Thank you to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. There are no brief comments. The next is the Minister for Children and Education. Here you go, and welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123171544	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the parties supporting the bill and, of course, also thanking the social partners for the agreement underlying this bill. After all, this translates into the agreement for a 1-year extension of the "Trepart Agreement on Strengthened and More Flexible Adult, Continuing and Continuing Training (2018-2021)'from October 2017. I am incredibly pleased that we can continue the agreement on a strengthened and flexible veu system, because it is a completely central area for the government and because it is a necessary path of upgrading. None of us can count on the education we take when we are young to cover our entire lives. The world is changing, and it is, whether we are ready for change or not. But it is also clear that it is never nice to be on the way in one direction if the rest of the world then changes in another direction. One feels useless and one feels perplexed, and we have seen large trades no longer have a foothold in a labour market and large groups of citizens who have had to switch from one type of occupation to another. Everyone wants to be of benefit, no one wants to be outside the community, and no one wants to be left with outdated qualifications. Veu must therefore help us keep up with the world and help us to bite the labour market with the big changes we see over time. This is particularly true of the strengthening of basic skills, such as reading and writing, which both give individuals better opportunities for further training and better opportunities for jobs in the labour market. The basic skills are also part of what links us closer to the community. Therefore, the whole question of basic skills is at the heart of social democracy and of government. Upskilling is also at the heart of the green transition that we are facing where companies are thirsting for skilled labour. We all want the green transition, and we all want to be affected by it, and that will change big and small in our working life and everyday life. Of course, our adult and continuing education system must also contribute to this. We have given priority to extending the agreement so that we can create economic stability for the sector and so that we can get the many initiatives that have been closed down due to corona to fly and, at the same time, get the recommendations of the Reform Commission in the veu area before the trialogue negotiations that we have now planned in spring 2022. If we look back at the background to this, an agreement was reached in October 2017 with 81 initiatives. It is clear from the agreement that the initiatives are based on the agreement period, i.e.: only up to and including 2021. This means that in the amending laws implementing the 2017 agreement there are sunset clauses. In other words, the legislative initiatives are automatically removed. At that time, you could not have imagined that there was a global pandemic, so the idea has been good enough. But now we are in a situation where, if we do not do something, if nothing else is agreed, the legal situation will actually go back to what it was before 2017. That is why the draft law extends the sunset clauses of the Amending Law by one year so that the Veu tripartite agreement can be continued, and that is so that we can have a debate in the first half of 2022 with the social partners. Then the government has agreed with the parties on four ambitious points for future discussions. They must form the basis for long-term solutions in the veu field, so that we also have a strong veu offer in the future. In the upcoming discussions, we will focus on reducing the number of adults with a lack of basic skills, a strengthened, accessible and flexible veu system and, finally, a more digital veu system. I am very pleased that we are continuing the Veu Tripartite Agreement until negotiations are concluded, and it is of course important that, after a year and a half of Corona, we have enough time both to gain experience with the initiatives initiated, but also to have the opportunity to discuss the lasting initiatives in a new agreement. Then there have been a lot of questions both about the digital and about English, i.e. fvu-digital and fvu-English, and I should just like to point out formally that it is on the Minister of Employment's staff just so that there is clarity about it. And then just to call a spade a spade: It costs money. This is not part of the trialogue agreement of 2017, and what we are doing here is a flat extension, so to speak, in relation to the economy. And I can hear that there are a great many parties that go to the financial law negotiations with the requirement that money be set aside for it, and I do not want to interfere in what kind of demands are being made as parties in the context of the financial law negotiations, nor comment on the current negotiations. But it is just to say directly why it is not included here: it is because it was not part of the original agreement, and therefore it is not part of an extension either. That would be to open up a new type of negotiation that we have not had in connection with this extension. So the question of whether there will be an economy will clarify the financial law negotiations, because I can hear that there are several parties involved in this. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123172117	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. Since it is not, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123172141	Negotiations are open. The first speaker is Mr. Jens Joel of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123172147	Thank you for that, President. Yesterday morning it was such a Monday morning as you know it, and at home with us it is so given my job here that I often deliver the kids Monday morning. And even though we all know that there may be a little Monday fatigue and a little panic on the weekends, I have basically seen that what determines how well I feel when Monday morning I bike up Risvang Allé to deliver my two grafts in the day care centre is really whether I feel that the day they are about to have is a day that will be good for those who actually have enough adults around them, where there is tranquility, where there is learning, where there is play and where there is a good educational framework. And I have the experience of delivering in an institution where there are skilled educators and where there are actually good conditions for the children. I also live in a municipality which has been relatively good in relation to the norms. But it is also clear that very, very many places the municipal economy has been under pressure for many years, and far too many places it has ended up being the children who have paid the price for it. This is one of the reasons why I, like many other parents, have felt that there was a shortage, that it was difficult to get the ends to reach together, and that was why there was a whole movement of parents standing up before the last parliamentary elections and saying: we have to discuss the situation in day-care institutions, we have to secure a bottom below it, we have to make sure that when there is a shortage in the box, it is not always with the children that they are getting the money. And it's worked, it's had an effect. This has meant that we now have a political majority which, with this draft law we are discussing today, introduces minimum standards applicable from 2024, which means that there must be an adult for three children in nurseries and an adult for six children in kindergartens, and that it will be the age of the child that will determine how many resources are allocated, so that when you move a child from a nursery to a nursery, it is not about making the community economy stick together. Then it is about making the best educational offer, the best transition from crèche to kindergarten, the best division of children's groups. The new majority has chosen to invest in our children. Of course, we do this first and foremost because we think it is important for children, but also because we think it is important for us as a society. And that is actually a lot of money when it is fully phased in, 1.8 billion. kr., and I also think we should remind each other that politics and money in this context make a difference. During this month, Google has published a study which shows that some of the educators in some of the municipalities, where you have actually gone ahead and provided more funds, experience quite different conditions to go to work, so that it becomes easier to be the educator you want to be for the children, that it becomes easier to divide into smaller groups, that it becomes easier to work in relation to each other. And that is why, of course, I also believe that minimum standards and investing in children are part of the response to the recruitment challenge we have in the area of children, where we desperately need to make it attractive for more people to go there. Because if you are to get people to take educational education, whether as a teacher or as an educational assistant, and if you are to get people to stay in the profession, then of course there must be working conditions that are capable of realising the pedagogical vision that you have entered the profession to realize. So I'd say I think it's a good day. I understand it's been a long, cool move. There are also some parties that have been very vocal about it. In social democracy, it is no secret that we went to the polls to add more money to this area. We would like to invest in welfare, we would like to strengthen the area of children. But there were also other parties who were very clear that it should then take the form of minimum standards. And I am very pleased that we have now reached an agreement which ensures both that there will be money for children, for adults and, above all, that more of the adults who are with our children will also receive educational training. That is absolutely necessary. Of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123172628	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123172633	Thank you. It is true that today is a really, really big day. And I would also like to start by recognising the agreement we have made together. It's been a really nice deal. However, what I would like to ask the rapporteur is how the rapporteur and the Social Democrats feel about that part of the statement, where management actually counts for 85%. of the inventory. There has been some debate, and I think the rapporteur has heard a little about this, in relation to how much the leaders are actually present. Because we know that the reality today is that I also think the rapporteur sees when the children are handed over that the management is not present at the children. In fact, they are very busy with the many management tasks they have. So what I want to ask the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur recognizes the challenge of the high percentage of the inventory itself and whether the rapporteur will help us to look at that share even further down, so that we can actually get to the real picture of how many adults there are for children in the day care institution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123172741	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123172743	I mean, part of this agreement is about improving the data base and, if you may say so, making it more transparent; making it easier to see what really is everyday life. But I would like to say that in the institution where I deliver, it is not really the case that the manager is only sitting in the office. And I actually find that it is also an educational gain in some places that the manager participates in the educational work. That is why I think it is a perfectly justified discussion: how much should the leader count? But I do not necessarily think it would be right to say that the manager should not count at all, because I think there is a point in the fact that the pedagogical management also sometimes takes place in the rooms. Having said that, it is clear that we need to discuss together how we can reduce the time that managers or educators spend away from children on administrative work and on paper and all those things that we would like to have as little of the time as possible for the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123172835	Here you go. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123172837	We are also looking forward to working on the data base in particular, so that we can get even closer to a reality where it is really the case that there will be a maximum. three nursery children per year; adult and six kindergarten children per year; adult. But in reality I could also try to ask the rapporteur perhaps a little tricky. But in any case, it is recognised that we may have to look at whether or not we should have the percentage lower. I can also easily see and recognise that some managers are closer in teaching practice, but there is a long leap from 85%. down to 0 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123172914	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123172915	I am not sure that it is necessarily desirable to end up at zero percent, i.e. to say that managers are those who sit in the office, finished, boom. But I think we should discuss that. What we have done with this agreement is, in fact, that we have agreed to set aside a large bag of money, and then we have agreed on how they should be implemented, that is to say, to more hands, but it has also been important for my own party, but also for other parties to ensure that money is also provided to enable us to upgrade and train and ensure that we not only get more adults, but also more educated adults. And in that key, in terms of how we spend the money, we've landed on this compromise, and I'm kind of happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123172955	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123172959	Thank you. That is actually a little in line with what the SF author said. You can read, if you go down in the hearings, that with this proposed model you can actually also risk sick people and people on maternity leave, etc. is included in the overall rating, and that gives us more than just this, that the manager also counts with a slightly muddy image. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123173025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123173026	One of the reasons why we have agreed here to qualify the data base is that it is actually quite real to have a discussion about what it is. Well, what are the numbers you get in, and how can you compare them across? Because in relation to this agreement, we have had a Danish Statistics statement deducted some things that we have agreed should be different. So in this way it can be said that we are both correcting the agreement, but that we are also discussing how we make the most accurate data base in order to be able to compare it across the board, both as parents and as politicians, what is the reality of the institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123173107	Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123173110	That was a rather long answer. Does the rapporteur not find it problematic that people who are not present in the institutions can actually count in this regulation? Because if in here at Christiansborg, on the part of mainly the red parties, one so much wants to control what is happening in the institutions, and apparently does not think that those in the institutions themselves can make the good offer, does it not think that it is problematic if it appears on paper as if there are actually more adults than there really are?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123173139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123173140	I was actually trying to answer that earlier. We would like to discuss both what statements you have today and how those statements can be more accurate, or how you can better understand what is going on. On the other hand, it is also a balance. Now Mette Thiesen is talking about what's going on in the living room. In other words, we also need to find a balance as to whether or not we have to figure out things that are obviously skewed and misleading, and that we should not go down and, if so, have video recordings showing when a teacher leaves the room and when he or she is not there. That would, of course, be a balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123173226	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That is why we can now move on to Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123173236	Thank you for the floor. Today, we are discussing a large and comprehensive legislative proposal, namely a legislative proposal which, among other things, is: is about introducing legal minimum standards in our day institutions. I do not believe that there is a politician present, either today or in general, in the Parliamentary Chamber who may disagree that Denmark should be the world's best country to be a child in, nor do I believe that we disagree that a good start to life is crucial to strengthening the development, learning and thriving of our children. Here, of course, our educators and other professional staff in the day institutions play an essential role. We could, among other things. see in the TV 2 documentary • Daily institutions behind the facade that showed heartbreaking episodes from the day institutions with pressured and apathetic educators. That is why we in the Left also basically agree that we have some professional and staff challenges in our day care institutions that we need to address. However, we do not believe that this draft law is the right solution to these challenges. Firstly, with the introduction of statutory minimum standards, more bureaucracy and administration will also follow. What is too bad about that is that we are going to spend a large amount of money on paperwork that we ourselves invent in the same context. After all, there are municipalities around the country which, in the budget negotiations that have just been concluded, have had to find money for example. I should like to say that the specialized social area, which is a very expensive post in many municipalities and in more and more municipalities, is a very expensive one. Secondly, the administration is then recommended to find the money on precisely bureaucracy and administration. And then the Folketing then comes and imposes new administrative burdens on the municipalities. It's a screw without an end. We also make it easy for ourselves to be shot at when we actually broadly based in the Folketing have the chance to ensure better conditions for our children, but then end up spending time, resources and energy on something that looks best on paper. When I come as a parent to my youngest kindergarten, I will be sorry that the manager has to wear the hair in the mailbox one Monday morning, because an employee has signed up sick and therefore has to spend time calling in other people; perhaps people who are not unfortunately allowed to say skills to care for the children, because it is already very difficult to recruit staff. Instead, that leader could be allowed to control the course of battle himself and even walk on the floor and grab hold. I would also like to say that the people I have met on my way are perfectly capable of managing it myself. Basically, I am also sceptical about the premise that the standards themselves should reflect how much quality time children have with staff. In fact, inventories show that the proportion of time spent by staff on children has fallen by almost 30%. Since the 1980s it's gloomy reading. For the Left, it is about putting the children's needs in focus. We need less system, less administration and fewer municipal requirements. Secondly, we in the Left also believe that it is important that there is real equality between municipal and private services, so that Danish families have a real free choice when they choose the day care institution that best suits their children's needs. The government's proposal reduces the percentage of grants to private institutions in some cases, i.e. from 75-71%, and this will certainly mean that more families feel obliged to opt out of the institution that is best for their very child. Is it really putting the child's best first? It's not if you ask me. For the Left, it is crucial that the money follows the child. Families must have real freedom of choice, and we will only ensure this if the non-communal offers are treated on an equal footing with the local authorities. In addition, I have also noted that this proposal also puts municipal day care providers at a disadvantage. The government is simply cheating the day care workers on this proposal. It is already difficult to recruit day carers, and I would venture to make the prediction that it will not be easier in the future either. I also fear that several parents will actively opt out of municipal day care in the future, as the government with this proposal clearly signals that municipal day care is a discount scheme. The Left will also ask for the bill to be split up so that we can vote on the parts relating to minimum standards and the percentage of grants separately. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123173713	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's from sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123173717	Thank you. The Left rapporteur says something nice about the start of children's lives, and then I think the rest of the speech sounds like an excuse not to support this. So my question is actually relatively specific: does the Left wish to vote against? And we want to roll back the minimum standards, and we also want to roll back the investment of 1.8 billion. kr. in the field of children?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123173744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123173745	Left voices yellow. I also believe that child and education rapporteur Ellen Trane Nørby has said this very clearly before. We are neither for nor against it, and that is because we are, in this way, in favour of equal standards, proper standards. We have to ensure proper, good, secure conditions for our children in the day institutions. But the way there is just not minimum standards. Of course, we are not going to withdraw minimum standards. That's not the essence of this at all. However, the starting point is that we wanted it to be said in advance, and this points to the government and to the Social Democratic Party, that is to say that it had been made very clear in advance to its support parties, so you actually started by saying, as they also said back in 2018, that this is not the right way to go. I am sorry that we are going to spend the money on anything but direct to the children of the day institutions, because the social democracy and the government ended up falling on the tail over the support parties. I am sorry about that, because I think we could actually have made a really, really good deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123173845	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123173846	First of all, I would like to welcome it if it is a commitment that the Left will not roll back the law. Then the question of the money becomes even more topical, because the Left wants to remove the 1.8 billion. kr., which we now add, if the Left gets a majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123173904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123173905	As I said just now, we would very much like to contribute to the allocation of the money that is needed to the children's area. We would very much like to help ensure proper, good conditions for our children. We have children and young people in our daily institutions. We have our own children to look at. I would love to be part of such a proposal all over the world as rapporteur for the family of the Left, but I cannot do so when it is sitting and spending the money on something quite different from what was actually intended. Equal standards, decent standards, social norms, which the then Blue Government also introduced, may in fact be a road we should have looked at more. The Social Democratic Party could very much have looked towards the Left at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123173942	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123173946	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I would like to ask the rapporteur what the Left intends to propose that we do for these children. Because I hear the rapporteur say that we agree that children must have proper conditions, we agree that they have the right to a good child life, but I do not think I hear anything about what the Left really wants to do. For what we have seen in the past during the reigns of the Left is precisely that it has only gone downhill. This is where we have seen the really terrible broadcasts; it is where we parents have experienced it and marked in our stomachs when we have delivered our children that it has not gone. So I would like to ask the rapporteur what it really is that the Left will do that can match a boost of 1.8 billion. kr., which we actually secure with this deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174040	In addition to the fact that I think it might just be a little thicker when you try to impose a lot of things on the then government that have gone wrong, I would say that the Left just got into play, because our rapporteur Ellen Trane Nørby really, really, really wanted to be a part of this and be an active player in this. Funny enough they chose not to invite the Left. That makes it undoubtedly a little difficult to make our real input, I would say. But when I just mentioned in my speech that the time of the children has fallen by 30%. Since the 1980s, it may be a very good place to start: to look at what is of paperwork and bureaucracy and administration around, since the real time with the children of educational and professionally trained staff or educators has fallen. That is a very, very welcome and, I also have to say, a very, very easy place to start looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174127	Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174130	Yes, and we actually agree with the rapporteur on that. We're not done with this deal at all. There's also something to find here, but nothing I think can even match the big boost we're actually doing with this deal. Another thing I would like to ask the rapporteur is the amount of money that comes out there and that has already begun to come out there. After all, as the Social Democrat rapporteur mentioned just now, feedback has already begun that it actually works and it helps. Can the rapporteur not recognise that what we are doing right now actually works and that the feedback we receive from the educators of the children out there actually says that we are on the right path?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174208	Thank you. The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174209	Yeah, imagine what you couldn't do if you just added those funds to the day institutions. In fact, it is a little hypocritical when the left is talking about the fact that it is just because there is a lack of money out there and we have the best staff all around. If we have that, why, then, is it that you do not just choose to give that bag of money directly to the day institutions and let them be decentralised and decide how it is to be managed out there. It is a little remarkable that we are sitting here and saying that we have the best staff all the way around. We say it's easy for them to control themselves. They just need a bag of money. You could say that they just get a bag of money, then it works all the way around.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174247	Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174248	Thank you. I'd like to follow up on sir. Jens Joel's question. If the Left after an election should have a majority with other parties in here, will the law on minimum standards be removed again?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174301	The Left has no intention of doing so. The Left is sorry that it has chosen to make an agreement which is called minimum standards rather than equal, decent standards, better standards. We are also very sorry that the choice has been made to give priority to the money, which ultimately means that it will not benefit our children, but will also mean that we in the municipalities must spend time on bureaucracy and administrative trouble. That's too bad!
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174328	Lotte Rod, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174329	Thank you for your answer. The rapporteur says that the Left has no intention of removing the law, but then I would like to turn the question: can the Left guarantee that the law on minimum standards is adhered to?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174341	Now Lotte Rod knows just as well as everyone else in this Parliament that things can change very much afterwards. But no, the Left has no intention of changing this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174352	Mrs. Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174353	Thank you. The rapporteur says that you can just send out money and then we get better standards in the day institutions. But we actually did that in the SF when we were in government last time. 0.5 billion was sent. kr. the day-care centres in the municipalities, and that didn't change a honk. Nothing changed. The money was spent on everything else in the municipalities. That is why we are now saying that we must give the children a minimum right in relation to what they have the right to do when they are in their day-care institution. Why will the Left not be involved in this, in other words to give the children a minimum right, and does the Left not recognise that that money was spent on everything else, precisely because we did not put a hook in them and did not give this right to the children?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174438	I have to start by saying that no, that's something SF says: if you just give out the extra money, it gets better. That is what we are trying to say now. And now I hear that this has apparently been tried in the past, and that is not what we have succeeded in doing anyway, so perhaps we are also a little bit contradictory in this respect. In addition, I also think that we are missing a very important factor in this, and it is in relation to our management in today's institutions, and that we do not get the problem raised, that there is something called good governance, and there is something called bad governance. We can also see on the bottom line that it is not always the money that matters. In addition, I would just like to make it very, very clear that we in the Left would very much have liked to have looked into an agreement where we had strengthened the children's area and where we had provided children, toddlers in day care, better conditions all around, regardless of whether it is private or owned, or whether it is day care or day care. But we couldn't be involved in that because we decided on a completely different context.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174534	Mrs. Astrid Carøe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174536	I simply cannot understand why we do not want to give a minimum right to the smallest children in Denmark. And we can discuss the facts, but it's an inventory that shows that these 500 million. kr., the last time we dropped money, was spent on everything else in the municipalities. So this is not something we have come up with in the SF, and it is not to contradict ourselves, because we are doing this in a different way now and saying that we must then create a minimum right and spend the money there instead. But I would really like to ask another question. The left is against minimum standards. Really? You don't want to withdraw it after a choice, but you're against it now. I think that is a bit contradictory, and that worries me.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174612	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174613	No, the questioner from the SF shouldn't be worried. I have made it very clear that the Left is voting yellow on this proposal, and we are doing so because we actually like the idea of having good and proper standards. That is also why, when we were in government, we introduced social norms. We are just opposed to making legislation which is so cumbersome and so vicious in the municipalities that it will mean spending the money on everyone but the children. In addition, I would like to give an example. Now I've been out visiting, among other things. several day institutions, also in my own municipality, Odense. There I was visiting a single place where they did not actually have problems or challenges in relation to staff, but where they had a really great desire to do something about their playground, and that is exactly what is the problem in this: You spend the money on one thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174656	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174658	I understand that the rapporteur believes that a great deal of time is spent in the daily institutions on anything other than caring for children. I would really like to hear from the rapporteur: is this the result of this agreement, or is it perhaps the result of legislation that has taken place while the Left had the power of government? For the Left, this country has been running this country, or at least the Prime Minister's office in this country, for most of the period since 2001. So is it this agreement that is responsible for bureaucracy, or is it possibly due to legislation under various Left Governments?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174737	That's not what I'm saying, that's what the numbers say. It's black and white. Studies show that up to 30% are used. less time with the kids now than they did back in the 1980s. So it's not a postulate I'm bringing. In addition, that is exactly what I said now I have said both in the questions and also in my speech: we really would have liked to have been invited to this, so that we could also look at the legislation, and also look at what kind of administrative trouble we have out there already, which we might be looking at. For the figures it shows in black and white that something has happened since the 1980s, which has gone in the wrong direction, and that this means that the educators spend less time with the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174815	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174816	I know the research. My question was actually simply: is this the result of this agreement? That is why I am a little puzzled about the argument. I understand from the rapporteur that this should reduce the conditions for municipal day care. It is simply unclear to me what the deterioration is. Can the rapporteur not elaborate on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174839	I mean, as I said, I think we should have looked at the legislation in the first place and figure out what we can peel from. Why is it that there are some places out there where they spend so much less time with the kids and so much more time in the office and on paperwork. It's in one place. In addition, yes, this agreement will then build a lot upstairs when you make statutory minimum requirements. I haven't been to the hearings, but several of you have summoned the minister themselves. I think it is the SF that has called for consultation on this, because it is precisely concerned that we can already see that it will mean that they are spending more time and more money on meeting administrative and bureaucratic requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174917	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we can go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123174931	Thank you for the floor. In the Danish People's Party, we want there to be a proper quality in all areas of municipal welfare systems, and it is actually not certain that minimum standards will significantly improve a child's institution. There are many parameters other than equal numbers of employees that influence quality, for example. management, attitudes among employees, pedagogy, etc. Minimum ratings aren't a quick fix. In order to improve the quality of an institution, it is simply too little to look at standards. Sometimes it may even have a detrimental effect, because there is a risk that minimum standards may become standard standards, so that the municipalities that are above will lower their standards. But the most problematic thing is that there is a risk of starving the other welfare areas in the municipalities. If, in the future, savings in the area of children are prohibited for a municipality, then it can be strongly tempted to save in the area of the elderly and the specialized social area. And if there is a shortage of labour, you will fill up in the area of children, but you will accept too few employees in the care of the elderly and in the specialized social area, a problem that we already see, because there are already major problems in both the elderly and the special areas. That is why we do not want to say yes to this system of minimum standards without guaranteeing that this system will not starve the other areas. So instead of having low minimum standards only in the area of children, minimum standards could be made in the area of children, elderly people and specialized social services, so that an overall minimum set-aside package could be made for all areas, so that there would not be any areas in which local authorities should be allowed to save and some areas in which they should not be spared. So we would like to table an amendment to the law on that. At the same time, the Danish People's Party is a party that wants to support and strengthen the family and make it easier to care for its own children, also at home. We want the municipalities to continue to offer support for home care. And we want to be sure that this proposal will not be affected, so we also need to ask a number of questions and clarify a lot of things in this area. When it comes to the private institutions and the private day carers, we find it problematic that they are being hit to a degree where they may find it difficult to move on. That is why we also support the Left's idea of having a separate debate about the private institutions and the private day care providers and about what the Left has proposed, possibly dividing up the law. So we don't want to just pour the law down this board, but we want to clarify a number of areas, and we want to have substantiated that this law will not harm the other communal welfare areas until we can say yes. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123175304	There are brief comments, and the first one comes from Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123175308	Thank you for this half-approach, at least in relation to the bill we are discussing today. However, if we are to be sure that the price is not to be paid elsewhere, there is in fact the possibility that we can vote in favour of the welfare bill that we have just put forward, in which we ensure that the money, even when there are more elderly people and when there are more children, will also have to keep up, and in this way we will ensure that the municipalities have an economy that does not have to cut down in one place to meet the requirements in the other place. So could the Danish People's Party support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123175338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123175339	Then I could ask: why this bill, when it is even a welfare law? Why this law on minimum standards when there is a welfare law that guarantees it, because then this law is unnecessary? That is actually what the rapporteur is saying. We think that if you make a binding with the municipalities in one welfare area, it is obvious that you will find savings in other areas, because this will suddenly be locked. That is why we also need to lock up more by means of minimum standards in the other areas. If you want it in one area, it has to be in all areas, and we do not see that being translated into that welfare law.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123175426	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123175428	I guess you can discuss and have standards and say that this is what it takes to ensure a good child's life. Then the prerequisite for the rapporteur's right to have to cut down somewhere else is that there is not enough money, in other words that we have somehow cheated on the weight. When we both set standards in the field of children and at the same time ensure that more money comes with us in the field of welfare, I actually think that the Danish People's Party should be reassured that there is an opportunity to provide the services at local and municipal level that need to be provided.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123175457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123175458	So may I just say that if the Social Democratic Party is absolutely certain that in any case the service required by a welfare law will be provided, why make a minimum standards law? This suggests that there is, like, no such security in the area of children. That then leads me to say: then we must also have minimum standards in the other areas, so that there is not one area that can never be starved, which then makes it more obvious to starve other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123175526	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123175528	one of the areas where SF and DF can sometimes be quite agreeable is in fact the welfare area and in terms of strengthening it. So this is indeed a matter with which we are very sympathetic, and we do not find it solved solely by the demographic allocation we are making. But I am now really glad that we are doing so, because it is really important for the welfare of the people out there. What caused me to get involved was the rapporteur's surprise that this minimum standard is only in a welfare area. The way it is now, we already have a maximum. 28 students in the class. We think that in the SF is far too much, but there is still a maximum, so it is not because it is such a whole new thing that we do. We take care of the children and take responsibility for the children. The kids can't stand up and say what they want. So, as far as I am concerned, this is really also about creating a right for children in the day institutions, namely a right for children to have enough adults around them and a proper everyday life.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123175635	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123175637	There is no doubt that when you have public institutions, there is also a responsibility for the proper functioning of those institutions. It is just not always that it is only the standards that determine whether they are in order. That is the one problem that I pointed out in my rapporteur's speech. The second is that if it becomes the case that the municipalities are only locked in one area of their economy, while in other areas there is flexibility, we run the risk that those areas where there is flexibility will be the areas that are starved. We are currently seeing major problems in the care of the elderly and major problems in the specialized social area, and if this now gives a greater incentive to save in precisely those areas that are so problematic, then not much has been won. Then it is certainly necessary to introduce minimum standards in those areas too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123175729	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123175731	Thank you. I do not agree, then, that this is going to mean, de facto, that we are going to be saving in all the other areas, in that we are also adding a great deal of money so that it can be linked out there. So somewhere we also take the responsibility of providing funds so that it can be done. I would like to know whether the rapporteur thinks that we should remove the class ceiling for the number of pupils, therefore whether that is what the rapporteur thinks we should do, so that no one stands better. Or is it • and it may be that it is a bit of a leading question • perhaps not better that we start somewhere instead of just letting everything sail?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123175808	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123175809	I do not think that we are letting things go because we are allowing municipal self-government to work. After all, there are municipalities with more employees than the minimum standards say. It is different how the municipalities feel. There are municipalities that can find out. But apart from that, we simply believe that it can be dangerous to introduce minimum standards which are aimed only at one area, because one can then be tempted to add funds to other things one wants and take them from those areas which are not locked. I am not saying that this is happening, but there is a theoretical possibility, and that means that savings can only be made in areas that are not locked.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123175853	Mrs. Astrid Carøe, SF, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123175856	Thank you. I am quite sure that the rapporteur is aware that we are also adding 1.8 billion. kr. in this area, so it is not because we are asking the municipalities to have a minimum rating on the day institutions, and then not like giving them the money to do so. That is why I also think it is a very theoretical discussion to be taking place when the rapporteur says that it might lead to savings in other areas. Isn't it good to put in here with a minimum right for the kids? That does not change anything about the fact that we can make minimum rights in all sorts of other areas at a later stage, but it is now, of course, minimum standards in the day institutions that we have as a legislative proposal here and which are also funded. It is not, of course, because the fight for funds in the field of welfare ends tomorrow. Now we're just gonna start with this right. I can't believe you don't want to back that up.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123175947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123175948	In other words, we think it is dangerous to do so in one area instead of doing so in all areas immediately. You risk starving areas that are not locked, while areas that are locked, like this one will then be financed, and there will be certain standards that you have to live up to, you can't touch. And you can say that is very fine, but it is not fine for the other areas that can be touched, and that is where we see the problem. So why not introduce minimum standards in all three areas I have mentioned here, and it may well be that there are more, but at least in the area of children, in the area of the elderly and in the specialized social field, right away?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123180030	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123180032	That's not what's financed in this deal. Should we spread 1.8 billion? kr. out on all that? Well, we have to take it one step at a time. We can't say every time we make a bill, what about this? So let's start with this. In my view, however, the rapporteur does not answer the question either. Because if it is not possible to have minimum standards in all the areas that the rapporteur is talking about, will the rapporteur remove minimum standards where we already have them and which are therefore the upper limit in primary school? I do not hear the rapporteur reply to that, so she will have the chance again.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123180058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123180059	I must admit that I do not think this is relevant to this discussion with this class ceiling. Well, I don't quite see that. I don't want to remove that; I think it's okay that we have it. But I do think that there is a problem in introducing something in one area which is likely to cause other areas to starve, so I think it is easy to say that we are reopening the negotiations on an improved law, involving the elderly and the specialized social area too. I don't see why you can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123180138	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. This means that we can go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123180200	Finally, we must deal with the law on minimum standards, that is to say the right of children to have enough adults. Children's right to a good, safe and present everyday life in the crèche and kindergarten is huge. It's historic. But it wasn't really me who was supposed to be here today. The children's Batman, Jacob Mark, must take care of himself today. Jacob has a huge merit in that we are standing here today, and I know that he wanted to be here burning, because minimum standards are a heartchild for Jacob. When you get tears in your eyes while signing an agreement that Jacob made when he signed the agreement on minimum standards, it is because it really matters. Jacob knows how crucial it is for children that we legally guarantee them rights that will not be taken away from them again. Thanks to Jacob. I'm sending the warmest thoughts. Ten years ago, when I started in politics, the very first thing I fought for was for us to have more adults in the day institutions. I did so because as a teacher in a kindergarten I myself had a child group of 16 or 20 all by myself, and because I have also seen the smallest grafts in the crèche wait longingly in front of me as I changed one child and comforted another at the same time. That minimum standards are important, so I too, as a mother, during all the years I delivered my three children to the day care centre. Here there were the most beautiful and talented educators and educational staff, but like so many other places there was a lack of hands, and it's just so hard to say goodbye to your children when you know that there isn't enough time. So it's also a very, very big day for me. Minimum ratings were SF's election promise up to the parliamentary elections, a promise to the children that they have the right to a minimum of adults and the right to a good child life where there is time for play, comfort and hugs. It was a promise to the hundreds of thousands of parents and grandparents who went on the street to demonstrate; the parent movement • Where is there an adult? • Who threw out in all parts of the country. It was a promise to the teaching staff in crèches and kindergartens that they should have more colleagues so that it is not fire-fighting all the time, but that there is actually time for the educational work with the children. But it's been a long fight. When Jacob was standing in this Chamber and the government was bourgeois, he was told that he was conducting a scaremongering campaign and that the conditions in today's institutions were not so bad at all. KL was against. Many mayors were skeptical and critical. But now it's happening. It can be done. And we've agreed that we're going to follow closely that the ratings are going to rise year by year towards 2024. We look forward to 2023 when we discuss minimum standards, i.e. whether they should be measured at institutional level. For us in the SF, the answer is clear: Of course they do. However, the draft law also has several other important elements. We are going to keep an eye on the fact that the level of education is not falling. We need more educators and educational assistants because it makes a difference to the children that there are trained staff. We support that with an education pool. In the SF we are particularly pleased that we have put an end to the pressure on children from crèche to kindergarten for reasons of savings. And with the law, we also ensure better supervision, and we provide a new framework for private institutions and private care systems, such as: ensure that the money from the minimum standards should be spent on children and not on profits to owners. Welfare must be welfare, not a business. And after countless years of savings in relation to the children, we have ensured a historic boost to the children's area, a protection against future responses. It is still important to remember that minimum standards are a minimum and that they are a bottom. The ambitions should and must be higher in the field of children. There is much still to be done for children, but this law is a huge step forward. Lasting improvement for all children in the future is both needed and necessary. This is probably the most important speech I have made to date, and it is with pride in my voice and indeed also with a little quivering knees that I conclude by saying that SF of course supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123180655	It was a little emotional along the way, and that's why I didn't break in, but I think the Jacob mentioned was Mr. Jacob Mark. The President is absolutely right. It's just that it's the indictment we're using. The first comment is from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123180709	Thank you so much. Now the rapporteur himself mentioned that the money must be spent on children and not on profit. This has been one of these slogans, because when you made an overall agreement on minimum standards, you went in and de facto banned it from the private sector. But I simply have to ask the rapporteur: what is the difference between a owner of a company giving himself a salary when it is affordable, and then the salary paid to municipal directors, department heads, head of department, middle managers, team leaders, district managers and all sorts of other municipal managers who never come near a child? Do they have to work for free, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123180747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123180752	Now I heard Mrs Mette Thiesen mention that this proposal closes the door on the possibility of private individuals, and I have to say that I simply do not agree with that. It is still possible to pay off oneself; it is still possible to make investments in the institution or out on the playground; it is also still possible to pay off its debts. So in this way they are, in effect, equal to private schools. So I really find it hard to see that this is the big problem for the private parts of it. I just have to say that I have a clear expectation of this, and I also think that most of the Danes think that when you pay your taxes, it should go to the common welfare and not in the pockets of some private owners, as we have seen in some places, among other things. in the social field, where it has become a major scandal. So it's been important to the SF. But I would also say, from a different angle, that we are concerned about ensuring a good implementation of this, including for the private sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123180855	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123180857	The rapporteur did not really answer my question. And no, the rapporteur is not right about what the rapporteur says about private matters. Because generally speaking, in this debate, profits and profits have always been exchanged, which is why I am actually getting a little curious. I actually had another follow-up question, but I would like to ask the rapporteur: what is the difference between profit and profit?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123180918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123180919	What is the big difference is that you are not going to spend any of the extra funds you get out in the private services that you use them for your own good. You can invest in exactly the offer you are allowed to pay, and there must also be money for holidays etc., and last, I replied to the questioner, I concluded by saying that I am actually very concerned about the next work because it also says in the agreement that we will have to work further on how it is that we are knitting the agreement on the private parts together. So I would say that, in relation to these very problems, this only applies to 10%. The rest of this area is self-serving institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123181000	Thank you. Then it's Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123181003	Thank you. It is not because I do not enjoy debating with Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk in the Chamber, but I would agree with her that it should have been Mr Mølbæk today. Jacob Mark, who was standing here, and I'd rather have had the discussion with him. I hope the best and wish him well. When the time spent by the educators with the children is reduced by up to 30 per cent. Since the 1980s, why on earth do I really have to say that you haven't covered that area properly in advance before you made this agreement? Why was it that in the SF, in the government and in all the other parties who made this deal, you didn't go in and get to the bottom of it, compared to how we're gonna solve this better in the future? Why has it not been looked at in advance and resolved before imposing new administrative burdens on the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123181057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123181059	What is most important for the SF, which is the crucial, most important and most important objective, is to ensure the conditions for the children. I have to say that children from 0 to 6 years of age do not have time for us to set up various committees of inquiry, etc. We would like to ensure that there is the number of adults that are needed, that there is exactly the number of adults that evidence-based research also indicates that there should be. This is a national problem. We've covered that. It's something we know. We no longer have to close our eyes to what we actually know, and we do not need to start a lot of research work either. One could just try to listen to the many of the educational staff who have been trying to get through to the political layers for years and have said: Now stop saving more; we cannot make ourselves more efficient to get more arms and more eyes and to be able to be more places. So I agree that we need to look at debureaucratisation, but I very much disagree that this proposal will mean more of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123181203	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123181207	Thank you. Frankly, I do not believe that there is a single person in this Parliamentary Chamber, either today or on a daily basis, who is opposed to ensuring better conditions for our children. It is quite incomprehensible to me that we have that discussion at all. There is no point in hiring more people if this means that more administrative burdens are added. That's what I'm quite quietly trying to do. And I'm not talking about any commission of inquiry and up here and coming down here... I'm talking quite low-practical about how you could have sat down and looked at what it is that you already charge the institutions and municipalities with administrative bureaucratic burdens that make it difficult to focus on the most important thing, namely the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123181247	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123181249	I am very much in agreement with the rapporteur, but I also think that the rapporteur is extremely unconcerned as to what she really thinks we should do away with. I've been talking to educators for many years. It's like previous colleagues, too, and I've been talking to people in the management. We know what it takes. But with this proposal, we are not going to put more bureaucracy on the municipalities. It is based on the same data that they are already supplying on. We are just making sure that it is more transparent and more transparent, so that, as parents, we can also keep track of what it looks like at your children's institution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123181325	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That means we can go further. Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123181343	Thank you. I've been looking forward to giving this speech. There are, then, days that are tired as a politician, where you think everything is going in the wrong direction, or that things simply go too slowly if you have an impatient temper like me, and then there are such days as today, when the sun shines a little extra, because we are finally dealing first with the law on minimum standards. It is simply so important for children that there are always a few smiling and encouraging eyes. Children need security in order to develop, they need adults who play with those who see those who are there and help the children who are a little on the edge, to get into the game and in the community. As parents, it is important, as the Socialist rapporteur also says, that when you deliver your children in nursery and kindergarten, you know that it is a nice and safe place. There are good mornings when your kids just run in and play with their friends, and then there are those hard mornings where the kids may be tired, maybe they're wandering around with something, they're hurting their stomachs, where it just means everything, that you know that there are some adults who see them, there's a hug, there are some who are there for the kids and helping them with what they're thrilling about. So for us as a society, I would say that I think it is the most serious social criticism that is right now that so many children and young people are having a hard time. They are lonely, they suffer from anxiety and depression, and in many different ways they find it difficult. We continue to revolve around it, and I think that the crux of it is that we have taken time away from the game and that there are simply too many children who have too little connection with adults because adults, both parents and those in the day care institution, do not have enough time to be present. That is why I believe that this is one of the most crucial things we can do politically. We have just received a new study this weekend, which shows that one child in four is miserable in kindergarten. Try to think of all the children who have been looking forward to going to school, and then already during the first year of school they are in pain and actually don't like to go to school. Of course we can do something in here with the school, we can put on an extra teacher and educator, and we can also take responsibility for children staying a year longer in kindergarten, but it all starts with the basic attachment and belief in life, and that means just something that there are adults enough in our day care institutions. In the Radical Left, we started work to get more norms 10 years ago, and I have been back reading and found a funny article from when the then Conservative Minister was scolding Margrethe Vestager for the day and I quote that she would just take over the operation of the country's day care institutions. Some parties still argue a little the same here 10 years later. At that time, the Social Democrat Social Rapporteur was Mette Frederiksen, and at SF it was Ole Sohn who commented on the proposal that they welcomed, and the SF said at that time that we do not have any definite standards in our plan, but in that we want to give priority to the area, we must be able to find a solution together with the Radicals. Quote out. That's what Ole Sohn said. Something has really happened since then, which is why I would like to say a special word of thanks to both the parents movement where is there an adult?• but also to Mrs. Rosa Lund and to Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj from Enhedslisten and to Mr. Jacob Mark and Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr of the SF to push for this with us Radicals. I would also like to thank the Minister for the fact that we have got the ends to meet each other, and when we hear the Socialist rapporteur making his speech here today, it almost sounds as if the Social Democrats are in favour of minimum standards, and at least they are doing so before we are completely through all these negotiations. At any rate, I am a happy and proud rapporteur today, and I think it is wonderful that we have come so far that we can now make minimum standards a reality, and we are not finished. The next step is that it should also be trained educators. But it will be a great yes from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123181819	It didn't come as a surprise, no. Then it is Mrs Mette Thiesen with a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123181823	Thank you so much. Now I would like to ask the radical rapporteur the same thing that I asked the Socialist People's Party rapporteur and to which I did not really get an answer: does the rapporteur know the difference between profit and profit? For what has been written into the original agreement on minimum standards is a surplus. After all, it is not possible today to withdraw the surplus, because profits are just another word for a balance sheet on the financial statements. So maybe the rapporteur thinks profit? And do we also want to ban deficits in the same way?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123181903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123181906	You can have a surplus. You just have to spend the money on the kids in the institution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123181910	Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123181912	Yes, but it is true that if a company cannot pay dividends, then what the rapporteur calls withdrawing the profits, then the company will close down. So this is a de facto ban on private institutions. It's such a basic business economy. So that is why I do not understand why the rapporteur does not quite understand this with profit and profit. Is it because the parties to the agreement are trying to cover up this de facto ban on private institutions? Is it the impression of the Radical Left that public institutions are always better than private ones? I just need some answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123181952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123181954	No, it's not. We in the Radical Left are in favour of having a diversity of different institutions. In fact, I think it is very important that, as parents, you can choose a small Rudolf Steiner institution, if that is what you want, instead of the municipal institution. I have my own children walking in a self-serving institution and we attach great importance to the fact that in future there will also be many different institutions to choose from.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123182019	Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123182022	Thank you. I would also like to ask the rapporteur about this with private and municipal offers. In other words, it is incomprehensible to me and a huge mystery that the Radical Left has agreed to this serious discrimination, which de facto helps to close some private offers. I understand that the Socialists are doing it... they are very open and honest about it... but I have never heard that the Radicals will ever know which offer is the best for the children. Then it may well be that today the radical rapporteur is trying to make all sorts of fuss by saying that that is not what you are doing, but that is what is actually being done in the Radical Left. Now, in his speech, the rapporteur himself mentioned this study, which shows the growing distrust among children and young people that we have been talking about for a long time and which has now become very, very serious. In relation to being a parent and having a child in an offer, a municipal daycare institution or school for that matter, where you are not satisfied because the child does not thrive or is happy and safe in the offer, then in the Radical Left you have just helped to eliminate some of the private opportunities that parents could otherwise use.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123182128	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123182130	Well, that's not quite correct. Well, we have actually spent quite a long time on this in the negotiations, because it actually means something to us that there is a diversity of different types of institution. And the vast majority of private institutions are private individuals, and they are allowed to continue as they are. You will still be able to set up companies. So where it can be said that this agreement hurts the most, including me, is in relation to those who are sole proprietors. That is where I have tried to ensure that the single-member companies that exist today should, of course, have the opportunity to continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123182204	Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123182206	I mean, I'm sorry to say that, but I think the Radicals have simply been cheated in this agreement. I think the Radicals have simply been deceived and deceived into some sort of agreement they have not been able to look themselves out of. This is going to mean that there are some parents in some municipalities who get fewer offers to choose from. There are some children who are miserable in municipal offers. The rapporteur himself mentions this. Now the rapporteur has been involved in de facto eliminating alternative options for parents to choose from. It's not for the child's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123182239	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123182241	It is as if the Left does not recognise that the vast majority of private institutions are actually privately owned. So the fact that you go and say that you are now closing all private institutions is simply wrong, and I think it is a pity for the parents who are getting worried out there, so where this doesn't change anything. Then it is true: yes, it will be a reduction in the fact that we will not be able to set up new single-member companies, and we have fought back and forth with that sometimes. I would have liked to have seen a model in which they could be allowed to continue if we could find a way to hedge in that money stays in the institution. The only problem is that it's so hard to do when it's a one-man business.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123182321	Thank you for that, thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on in the rapporteur's line. Now it's sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123182331	Today is a good day for children, for parents, and for day care staff. It is a good day for all of us who have fought for better standards in the country's day care institutions. One must always be careful not to become too busy, but I think it is actually a good thing to say that it is a preliminary culmination of a very long and very tough struggle to ensure better quality and more adult life for children. A long and cool job, which did not start yesterday or five or ten years ago, but actually started when the day institutions were transferred from the state to the municipalities in the mid-1970s. At that time, the transition to the municipalities was marked by the firing of more than 4,000 employees in the day-care institutions, and I had the pleasure of participating in the work reductions that took place in February 1976 on it. Ever since then that has been a problem, and ever since then there has been a struggle over the norms. There have been periods in which this happened, but when you look at the overall long move from 1976 when the transition to the municipalities took place and until 2018, the figures show that three years ago there had never ever been fewer hours of staff per child • never had there ever been any lower standards during the well over 40 years since the transition to the municipalities in 1976! The experience gained both professionally and politically in the fight for better standards made it felt that there was a need to do something else because it was difficult to achieve results in each municipality. That is why many actors in this area recognised the need for national legislation which imposed a ceiling on the number of children per adult, and the requirement was formulated, not at Christiansborg, but by the staff of the day institutions and their professional organisations. It was formulated by active parents, and then it found its way into the Danish Parliament, where the Enhedslisten for the first time 10 years ago put forward proposals to introduce minimum standards in this area. Today, therefore, when we have to legislate on minimum standards, this is very much due to the teaching staff and the very long and tough struggle of parents. A huge effort has been made in BUPL, in FOA, the Parents' National Organization, FOLA, but I also think there is reason to highlight the actually unique effort of the Parental Movement, where an adult was in charge in the run-up to the last parliamentary elections, where it can be said that the agenda moved from being important to being incredibly important. It came to the top of the political agenda, and that is what enabled us politically to agree in the common understanding paper that we should now set minimum standards on the agenda. I'd say I think it's a good deal we've made. It is a good piece of legislation that we have made about 4,000 more educational staff. This must be said to be a very significant improvement, but I must also say today that more needs to be done if we are to respond to both parents' and staff' desire for minimum standards at the level of children. Fortunately, between the parties that have made the agreement, we have an agreement that, during the phase-in phase, we should discuss with each other whether we should move from a municipal average rating to an institution-based minimum rating. And it is no secret that it has Enhedslisten seemed very long and we hope it can become a common view when we discuss it again. We also have a number of proposals for other changes to the standardisation model, in which the idea is to take as a starting point the time when the staff are actually with the children, i.e. a minimum level at the level of children. Finally, I would like to thank you for your political cooperation. As the Social Democrat rapporteur suggested, we have not agreed on everything in this matter, but nevertheless we have managed to find each other in a very good cooperation, so thank the government and the Social Democrats. Thank you to the Radicals and Mrs Lotte Rod. Thanks to the SF and Mr. Jakob Mark, who is not here to celebrate today, is a pity, but it is then a number of his colleagues. And then I also think that we should jointly thank the many educational staff, the parents who have both historically tried to give a little riddle but have also done a huge job right now, which has paved the way for us to start legislation on minimum standards in the day institutions today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123182857	Thank you. There is just one brief comment. Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123182902	Thank you and thank you to the rapporteur. Well, it doesn't make sense to ask Enhedslisten, why the hell do you want to close private offers or turn day care into a B-offer, because that's what you are in Enhedslisten, after all, I have respect for the fact that you don't give it a hat bullshit, and you then focus on the municipal offers, and all honour and respect for it, at least that you are honest about it. But one thing you haven't talked about as loudly in the Enhedslisten as I would like to hear Enhedslisten defending, they are there approx. 250 million kr., you will send out to the parents every year as a bill that the parents and only the parents will pay extra because you do this minimum rating.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123182940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123182943	Now, I can tell the questioner that until I started in the Folketing, I was the chairman of all the day care workers in the country, and I have not had any ambition at all, nor have I now had it to reduce the conditions for day care providers. On the contrary, Enhedslisten and I believe that we must fight for better conditions for day care providers, and if the Left wants to play a part in this, that is fine. As far as parental payments are concerned, it is really a pity that parents' payments are so high. It has been for a very, very many years. At one point we were 33 1/3 per cent, now we're down to 25 per cent. If the Left and others want to help reduce parental pay, we will think it is very good, because it is far too expensive. Although the offer is good, it is far too expensive today to have your child in day care.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183029	Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183031	The rapporteur says that he is former chairman of all day care providers in the country. Then I hope that the former President will really get on with it now, because unfortunately this offer does, among other things. The day care providers for a real "B" offer, I just have to say. So I look forward to hearing Enhedslisten come on the field about that, you haven't been so clear about that. By the way, I should just like to say that I am quite sure that it was actually Anders Fogh of all people who at the time implemented that there should be a maximum. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Blue Government for its own payment in the area of day-to-day institutions. But I didn't ask if it was too bad to send out this extra bill to the parents, I asked what Enhedslisten thinks about it and will do about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183107	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183109	I mean, it's just wrong that this should reduce the conditions for municipal day care. This does not detract from the conditions of municipal day care, nor does it diminish, as was almost suggested by a former rapporteur, the conditions for the elderly and for school pupils. It simply does not. But it would be very good if we could follow this up with better standards in day care, it would be sensible if there were a maximum legislative level. I would like to say once again that we are willing to help reduce parental pay in the day-care institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183144	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we move on to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183152	Thank you very much. The draft law here is the implementation of the government's agreement with the support parties on minimum standards for day-to-day offers. In the Conservative People's Party, we are not opposed to minimum standards. It should just take place locally in the municipalities, as several municipalities have already done. Frederiksberg and Elsinore just to mention some. It is the municipalities that are familiar with local conditions, knowledge of the individual day care institutions, the staff and the children. In the Conservative People's Party, we believe in the principle of subsidiarity and that decisions are taken as closely as possible to the citizens. Therefore, minimum standards must be decided locally in the municipalities and not dictated from Christiansborg. The bill here restricts the municipalities' business room, and the state will decide on the blue living room in the individual municipality without any knowledge of the local conditions. A one size fits all-model is not appropriate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183315	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183320	Thank you. As has already been mentioned in this Chamber, we have made the attempt before, where we found quite a lot of money to send out to the municipalities precisely to strengthen the efforts of today's institutions to get more adults and give a little more presence and time for the important educational work. But what we experienced at the time under the autonomy of the municipalities was, in fact, that too much of the money went into many other different things that had been chosen, depending on the majority there was. So what I want to ask the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur does not see that it is a huge force that we are now saying by law: children are entitled to adults enough. It does not depend on a local political majority in a city council or a municipal council, as we have seen in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183417	Well, I quite agree that there should be enough staff for the children out in the day institutions so that they have the necessary care and presence and learning, and it is easy to decide that out in the municipalities, out locally. I myself am a council member and have been for 16 years, and I myself have helped to allocate money and negotiate more money for more educators in our day care institutions. So it can be done if the will is out there locally in the municipalities, to prioritize this here. And what is our position is that the municipalities are very different, and therefore it must be possible that, on the basis of local considerations, you can decide what it should look like in your municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183458	Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183500	Thank you. And congratulations on the election again. I come from a municipal council myself. In some places you choose to give priority to your children, in others you prioritise the roads, and in some other places you prioritise quite different things. But does the rapporteur not think that we will simply abandon the children by leaving it up to the town councils, because it has obviously not worked in the past? It's not like the kids have anything to say here. It's not like the kids can walk the streets and say they want these adults now. Don't we fail the children by not guaranteeing them this right to adults enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183538	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183540	I can only repeat that it is the responsibility of the municipal councils to ensure that there are enough staff for the children. And I fully agree that it is important for there to be enough staff for the children. I've also seen some of these shows, and it hurts right into the heart to see children running around looking for an adult, and children who are sad, who are not comforted. This is something which, as a municipal councillor, must be given local priority and set aside money. Now we have just had elections to the municipal councils, and that is precisely where the parents have the influence to vote in the politicians who would like the children, if that is exactly what you think is important as parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183619	Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183621	Thank you. The question is really quite simple, because if you listen to the rapporteur's speech, the obvious question is: if you are given the opportunity to do so, do Conservatives want to remove the law on minimum standards again?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183640	After all, I have listened today to what the Left rapporteur, among others, has said. I have said, and it is clear that this is not something that I, as a child's rapporteur, can stand here and decide on what to look like if and if we are going to engage in intergovernmental cooperation at some point, but I can say that we in the Conservative People's Party are not against minimum standards. It just needs to be done out locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183706	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183708	Now what we are discussing today is indeed a national law on minimum standards, so if you only want it locally, you are also against it in here. I must admit that I did not realize what the rapporteur of the Left was actually responding to the question. I'm not quite sure what that means either. I think it is a little worrying for the parents who are listening to this, but if the Conservatives will not respond to whether or not to remove the legislation on minimum standards, it may be that you will answer whether or not you want to roll back the investment of 1.8 billion. kr., which we have added.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183742	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183743	Thank you. Then I'll try to make it a little clearer. We from the Conservative People's Party will vote against this bill. So I guess that's the answer to that question. We are against this bill because we believe that it should not be dictated from Christiansborg. We believe that it is the municipalities that should give priority to this area locally according to local conditions and that, in our opinion, this is what the new municipal councils should be dealing with.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183812	Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183815	Thank you for that answer. But what does that mean for the money? Because with this deal, we're gonna set up just under 2 billion. kr. a year to the children's area. Well, what will you Conservatives do with them? Will you Conservatives take them back from the municipalities and spend them on something else, or will the Conservatives stick to the idea that that money should become for the children, no matter what happens to minimum standards or not? It's just to understand what the Conservatives want.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183846	Well, I was trying to be pretty clear about what our position is on this bill. And then it is clear that at the moment of the conclusion of an intergovernmental agreement that we must be involved in, it is, as with everything else, a negotiation. I can also remember up to the last parliamentary elections that the Social Democracy was certainly not too minimum standards, but was precisely for social norms, which we are also conservative and which we also prioritised when we sat in the VLAK government. And then, apparently, the attitude of social norms to minimum standards has changed in the case of the government concluding an agreement with the support parties. And I cannot stand here today as rapporteur for children and speak on behalf of many Members about how things are going to be a few years in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183932	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123183934	Then it may be that the Conservative rapporteur will say a little about what you really want in the municipality. For the Radical Left, it has been important, as I hear the Conservatives say, that they can be moved around in the municipality, in other words that there must be an institution where there are more educators than there is in another institution, because you can see that there are some particularly vulnerable children and that therefore makes sense. But that freedom is, of course, in the minimum standards we are doing now. That is why they are at local authority level and not at institutional level. Do you think that's a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123184007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123184009	I do not know whether the rapporteur has misunderstood what I said. Conservatives believe that these decisions should be taken locally, because it is out of the local community that we know about the day institutions, the staff and the children; we do not do so in here at Christiansborg. And we do not think that the right thing to do is to make such a one size fit all-model as you pull down all the municipalities, because there are local conditions that are very different among the 98 municipalities, and we think it should be the case that the local authorities in each municipality decide on this. I fully agree that it is important to give priority to having enough adults for children so that they have the necessary care and presence that they need in their daily lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123184051	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123184056	Thank you. I was the children's rapporteur for the Enhedslisten from 2011 to 2015, and that is where we did. a financial law agreement, where we set aside 0.5 billion. kr. to this area, which should go to more adults for the children, more educational staff. The problem was that the money was spent on everything else in the municipalities because you might have some other problems, which were a little bigger. That is why I would like to know how Conservatives will then make sure that that priority happens. In other words, if it is up to the municipalities to ensure that there are enough adults if it is up to the municipalities to make the prioritization how will you make sure that they do that priority if you do not want a minimum rating? I am asking because we have really bad experiences just like throwing some money out to the area in the municipalities, and then they are used to patch holes in the roads or create a new bus shed. That's not what was meant to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123184151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123184153	As I have said on several occasions here from the platform, we believe that these decisions should be taken locally. This is where you know about the day institutions, you know about the staff, you know about the children; you are in close contact with the day institutions upstairs from the city hall administration, also in relation to what kind of children are going there. After all, there is also a great difference between groups of children in the day institutions. Some groups of children require more adults, others require fewer adults. It's on the basis of local considerations that these decisions have to be made. That is our position. So we probably do not agree when the rapporteur asks how we want to ensure that this is done in this way. Because we don't think it's the right way for us from Christiansborg to sit here and detail how it should be out in the blue living room in some municipality. So I guess that's just where we don't agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123184244	Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123184248	I very much agree that we should not regulate in detail. But I do not think it is retailing to ensure that all children have the right to adulthood. Because whether you are part of a group of children where there is a need for a little extra adults or if you are part of a group of children, which the rapporteur describes as resourceful, then all children actually need adulthood. All children need that language stimulation or to be comforted or held in hand or whatever it may be. I mean, every kid needs that. That is why I simply do not think it is right to call that right a detailed regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123184324	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123184327	But what has been proposed here in the bill is that Christiansborg will decide how it should be in the individual municipality, in the individual living room. We do not think this is right, because we think it is easy to ensure that this area is given priority as a municipal council. I myself have been involved in this because I also believe it is important to ensure that there is the necessary care and presence for children in our day care institutions. So it is possible, and there are more municipalities I have just mentioned two, but there are also several other municipalities that have already introduced minimum standards of their own. So why drag such a one size fits all down all over the municipalities when it actually can be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123184412	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that means that we can go further. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123184429	It was sold as a huge welfare promise when the government, together with the support parties, introduced minimum standards in the area of day-care. But the reality seems to be a completely different one. The children come second when it comes to benefiting from the tax dollars, because, as usual, bureaucracy requires its share first. It was noted that as many as 443 million tax dollars would go to administration, courses and IT costs. It was quite the same thing we saw when politicians introduced the social free card to help the homeless, because here it was 29 out of a total of 45 million. kr., which went to administration, and this is almost always the case when politicians are about to spend the Danes' money. All of their money gifts to the public come with a wealth of new bureaucratic rules when the money is to be distributed rules so complicated that they give employment to an army of DJs. Of course, good standards are only a part of having a quality offer. But what exactly is good quality? Is that something that the local ladies and politicians at Christiansborg should decide? We do not think so in New Citizens. In fact, I find it a little arrogant that the politicians in here at Christiansborg believe to know better than the families who should use the individual offers. At the same time, the whole proposal for minimum standards is another step towards the ideological crusade by the government against everything private and everything called free choice. The agreement on minimum standards closes and bans private offers. The Danes must therefore live with the fact that their tax crowns for daily offers are distributed on the basis of ideology and not common sense. However, there is another way, apart from state control, coercion and the closure of the private initiative. We in New Citizens want to end the left-wing state thought, which has made Denmark world champions in consuming and wasted treasure crowns. Instead of trying to regulate and regulate the institutions in detail, we should set them free. We will take the administration of the money away from the municipalities and thus cut off most of the administration. Instead of subjecting the institutions to more control, we want to show confidence in the educators and the leaders. We want to remove as many of the restrictive rules as possible for everything from standardisation to continuing training that politicians have come up with, because we are actually confident that we can define what good quality is out there for ourselves. If the parents do not agree, they can opt out of the offer if the money follows the individual child, as New Citizens would like. And it is therefore without interference from Commune Hanne or the politicians from Christiansborg. Because the money has to follow the individual child. It must be up to each institution to create a high quality care service that parents and children are happy about. We have to let the parents decide what's best for their children. Bad offers are chosen from, good offers are selected for. And in this way we create a slimmer public sector where people come before the system. Unfortunately, this bill and the whole agreement on minimum standards do the opposite, and that is why, of course, we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123184805	There are brief comments, first from Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123184808	I fully agree with everything that is about removing rules and giving more freedom, but what is New Citizens' opinion that with this agreement there will be almost 4,000 more educators for our children?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123184826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123184826-2	Our position is that the good quality is defined in the individual institutions, and if you let the money follow the individual child and actually had confidence instead of defining in here from Christiansborg, exactly how to turn it together, compared to how many there are, we actually believe that the day institutions out there would actually set it up, as the parents and children would like it to be. So that will be the very concrete answer. And I am really sorry that the Radical Left has unfortunately agreed to this galley saying that state governance is good in this area too. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123184857	Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123184857-2	So what is New Citizen's answer to the parents? What are we going to do about the money we have set aside here? If you are given the freedom to do so, will you abolish the law on minimum standards and withdraw the money? Or what will New Citizens do?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123184912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123184913	That was a nice question to ask. Yes, we will of course withdraw this law, but we will let the money follow the individual child. We want to ensure that, as a parent, you can choose your own day care institution. But then there are a lot of other things we want to do too. We also want to ensure that as a parent you can choose to care for your child and receive an employment allowance in order to be able to go home and care for your child for the first important years. We want to ensure that educators have the opportunity to spend their time with the children. Unfortunately, today only about half the time is spent by the educators with the children. So there's been a pretty big move from the 1970s, even in this area. So there are plenty of things to do, while state governance and state control with minimum standards and more administration and more bureaucracy are just not the way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123184954	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123184955	Thank you. I would like to know whether the rapporteur knows and understands the evidence-based and quite comprehensive research that is actually being carried out on children's well-being and development in day care institutions; I can, among other things, do so. refer to Heckmann, who has done quite extensive studies of what it has to do with a child's life, well-being and development and opportunities later in school life. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur has any insight into exactly what the recommendations are and what they have actually recommended the political layer, and whether the rapporteur really has insight into the way we have done institutional life for many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123185037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123185038	Yeah, I have an insight into that. In fact, I believe that the Socialist People's Party and New Citizens can also agree on a few things about children. We also agreed that children should of course not be pushed in kindergarten. I have also been fighting for many years, as I myself am a schoolteacher, for parents to decide when to start school; that it should not lie with the municipal council, so on the basis that parents obviously know their own child best. But I just have a very great faith in the professionals who are out there to make this great quality offer. I know that a great deal is being discussed around the various municipal councils by the politicians who sit there and that a great deal is being discussed in here by the politicians who sit here about how to create the good quality offer, day offers. And there I just have to say, the good offers are growing up from below. They're out there. These are good people who can easily figure out how to make some really good offers, and it is both the private and the public who are good people out there, and we are just confident that they are the ones who can define what good quality is, together with the parents and in interaction with the children who also have to go there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123185142	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123185143	In the SF we are quite big fans of and listen to those who know something about what we are talking about, and they are both the ones who are researching it, and they are psychologists, and they have among other things. very clearly recommended us max. three nursery children per year; adult and max. 6 kindergarten children per year, adult. That's what we're gonna do with this today. We are actually doing what they recommend us to do. But it is not only those who recommend us to do so. It's also the whole parent movement and grandparents movement. Where is there an adult who says: we need that, that is what it takes? It's the teaching staff out there. Does the rapporteur not recognise this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123185221	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123185222	Yes, the rapporteur acknowledges this very well and thoroughly. But the reason why the educators today cannot spend their time with the children, which I am absolutely sure they would like to come, is that in here at Christiansborg you have made so many rules and everything that makes you spend only about half of your time with the children. Oh, yeah. But basically, this is also about trusting those day care institutions. If they were to be released, if the money were to be followed by the individual child, then the parents, in cooperation with the management of the day care institution, could create the good offer in collaboration with the teaching staff at the day care institution. And I'm quite sure that with their professionalism they can easily implement this. But with this, you do government management and spend a lot of money on bureaucratic administration. That is not the way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123185302	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Since I have not registered any more rapporteurs, it is now the Minister for Children and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123185318	It's amazing how many gadgets and things and all these papers you have to bring, because this is one of the really, really big deals. I feel exactly like Mrs Lotte Rod, and that is actually, despite the fact that it was not the very way to set it up with minimum standards, which was my cup of tea and our cup of tea in connection with the election campaign and discussion of it. What in turn was our cup of tea and is our cup of tea, is investing in the kids. I was actually a little shocked that the blue parties cannot give a very clear answer as to whether they are going to let the 1.8 billion. kr. stay in the area of children or not. One thing, of course, is the minimum standards themselves, and one can always discuss how to allocate the money to the municipalities, but one cannot stand up here and say quite unequivocally that of course the 1.8 billion will be paid. kr. You know, being allowed to stay in the field of children is a little shocking. It's 1.8 billion. kr. a year that comes out extra with this deal. It's 3,955 extra adults out in day care. That means that all the talk that has been up here in the debate that it is nothing and that it is not something that benefits the children has been wrong. The reason why I brought so many gadgets up here is that BUPL has been fighting for this, so they should probably be able to find out if they didn't think it worked if I know them right, and thanks for what BUPL has said on 11 November 2021 that well every four day institution teacher in BUPL's new conditional study says that the setting at their workplace today is better than it was in the time before the first of corona closure. They also say that eight out of ten people experience more time for their children in everyday life. So it's at some point, we just have to remember where we stand in 2021, which means that we have only sent money in goose eyes corresponding to 1,965 posts, which then grows from 1,965 to the 3,955 posts. Even now, eight out of ten in the conditional investigation carried out by BUPL can say that it makes a difference. I think this is a huge victory for the good child life, and I would like to congratulate all the parents who have fought a brave battle to get this through. It worked, and it works to get involved in politics, so thank you very much for that. Then I would like to thank each of the rapporteurs of the support parties, both those who are here in the Chamber, but of course also Mr. Jacob Mark, who is not present in this Chamber. For each of you, this has been heart blood, and it is absolutely right, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur said from up here, that we have not been entirely in agreement, because we have weighed different parts of it. That is why there are also parts of this that are compromises. Why is it that the leadership count exactly what we landed on? It is, among other things. because we were sitting at the negotiating table and agreed with each other that it is a really bad idea that the municipalities can speculate on letting the children move up early. And the matter of how to count costs all money, and so does it, if it is the case that we will insist that when a child is ready to move, it is what should be at the centre. It is not whether as a municipality you can save some money on moving them up when they are 2 years and 8 months or 2 years and 10 months, instead of waiting until they are 3 years. I think that was the right priority. Then you can always discuss what the next steps are in terms of how to do things even better. However, in the choice between doing something about the leader's share and ensuring, as we have decided with each other, that you cannot speculate that children should move earlier into kindergarten than they are ready for, I think we have entirely chosen the right priority. Then you can always want a money tree and say that in addition to the 1.8 billion. kr., which is one of the largest amounts I have ever contributed to giving extra to any area, one can always wish for more. But it's just to say that it's a giant I've written a book myself called "It pays to invest in people," and if you're in doubt there and now Heckman was just mentioned... then the thing about investing in the little kids gives better lives for the kids, and the small changes we make in the early years, gives huge changes in life courses forever in the lives of the children. And, by the way, it also pays off financially. I think that somehow is a biting, but it does. Anyway, I'd like to say a special greeting to Mr. Simpson. Jacob Mark. There are several who have mentioned it from up here, and it is in some way one of the absurdities of fate that you can work so hard for something you're passionate about, and actually work so hard that you also end up getting a load injury from it and then can't be present the day you can see that things are actually moving in the right direction. Therefore, I would like to send a very special greeting to Mr. Jacob Mark, who, like the other rapporteurs who are present in this Chamber, has fought a brave battle to get this through, has read, I do not know how many hundreds or thousands of pages of documents, stood on the streets and straits and joined, every time there are some who have said that they would like to be part of the organisation and implementation of this. It is well fought by all, both those who have been around the movement and the rapporteurs who are also present in this Chamber, with the various pressures that have been put into it. A huge congratulations on that. Right now, it's the money that's working. In other words, we have actually put the money first. I think that is an incredibly important part of it. Because there are several rapporteurs in here who say that we should not just abolish all sorts of bureaucracy. Well, yeah, we can do that. I think we should finally do that. After all, we ourselves have set in motion some huge attempts in two municipalities to abolish bureaucracy, but the two things should not be opposed to each other. And shouldn't we agree on the order, too? There is nothing to prevent sending the money first, and that is what we have done. And that is why BUPL's study shows that the standards are improving. Then the legislation comes with demands. It's phased, so it starts from 2024. And then we have set in motion attempts at freedom in order to ensure that the confidence they have earned in today's institutions is also shown. But it is just to say that for me it will sound like a bad excuse when you say that we have to do everything possible with debureaucratisation and that, therefore, this money will not be set aside for minimum standards, because that is the second thing we have to do. You could also choose to do both. One might actually choose to say that a generation of children is so important that we do both, of course. But I hear there's no blue support for that. I think that's too bad. It was one of these places where, if there was a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, like when we make changes in the primary school area, where there was a broad majority in the Danish Parliament behind it, we could be sure that things will not change from one year to the next. We can only note here, unfortunately, that the blue parties do not want to be involved. In other words, there will be no guarantee of minimum standards, that is to say they will remain there if there is a blue government or if there is a guarantee that the money will remain there. We could, of course, choose from the blue block to say that we are abolishing the law on minimum standards, but of course we are leaving the money alone. Nor could they say that from the platform. I think that is a pity, and I think that we should think about it very carefully. I will certainly do that as a parent, in relation to where one dares to put one's trust. Then there is one thing with which I have been very concerned, namely that which is about supervision. There have also been a great many who have been concerned about this along the way. I think, in fact, that the teaching staff is absolutely crucial. This means that there's nothing above or anything beside this agreement, that is to say, getting 3,955 extra adults into the institutions as the largest in this agreement. However, when we go in and set a new framework for how supervision will work, it is because it is true, as rapporteurs have also said from up here, that it is not only the number of hands. In fact, these are also some other things. And in some of the examples we have seen at day institutions, where it was indeed something challenged, it was not just a matter of hands. There was not necessarily a question of standardisation. So there were some other things. That is why it has been crucial in the negotiations that we were in and look at supervision so that we ensure that we support ongoing quality development and also ensure that there is better control of what is going on and that the quality of the offers is in order. Furthermore, there is still a great deal of room for manoeuvre for the municipalities, in terms of how to organise supervision, and that is, of course, because there is a huge difference between the municipalities and the huge difference between the offers. But the tightening up of supervision, which is, I think, is extremely important. There are other parts of the agreement too. I could mention the money set aside for the level of education. That is not what we are discussing here today, but it is just to say that there are several different things at once that determine overall whether the quality is in order. Of course, there are enough adults. It is that there is a supervision that catches it when things go wrong. And that is that there are trained staff in the form of educational assistants and educators. In other words, getting up to a proper level of education will maintain the present, but also put the bar higher I think is really important. And no one can hear that as a subjugation of our incredibly many good, talented, solid educators without training. It is simply a wish to say that we must raise the level of education in general. So it is not a question of wanting to get rid of some staff groups that are out there now. That is why, in this part of our agreement, we have put a great deal of emphasis on starting from the people who are there and who have really solid experience of being educators, and thus making it easier to start a credit teacher training course in order to start from the fact that the experience of being a teacher assistant, for example, is very valuable in relation to our institutions. I think I have said the words that should be said in this connection. I think there is good reason to raise the flag. It is not allowed after dark, but I feel a bit like Mrs Lotte Rod, that today is a day when the sun shines a little bit extra. So maybe it's dark out there, but you want to hoist Dannebrok. So thank you very much to all the parties to the agreement. Thanks a lot to the parent movement who's been fighting for this. Finally, there will be solid investments in a generation of children, and I think they deserve that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123190346	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments to be made to the Minister, and it is only from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123190349	Thank you so much. There's no reason to go into this with ownership, because there's been a very clear Minister in that she doesn't care much about it, that is to say, whether you should be able to have these private forms of ownership. I've heard that before, so I don't want to go into that. I just have to ask the Minister, now that the Minister is talking a lot about all this money coming out to the area, whether the Minister can guarantee that not one of the crowns will go to administration, courses, IT costs, bureaucracy and frizz, but that they will only really go to the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123190424	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123190426	Of course I can't. Well, of course I can't guarantee it. That would mean that I would have to have threads in every penny in every town. I am simply not the head of administration or executive, so it is almost self-evident. But what I can guarantee is that money has been set aside for the recruitment of 3,955 additional educators. Then, too, money has been set aside for administration, yes, money has also been set aside for courses, and I think that is a relatively good idea, since administration is also about having to pay out wages and courses are about upskilling. When we set aside as much as we do, it is clear that some of the money must be spent on administration and courses, but of course I cannot give a guarantee of how to manage out there in each municipality. I mean, I'm a minister; I'm not mayor, after all. And even if I were mayor, I wouldn't be the mayor of all 98 municipalities at once. But when you make a law on minimum standards, it means that from here we are shooting a bottom below how far down a level of how to treat children and how many adults are around them in the day institutions, and that is a much better guarantee than there has been at any time around the day institutions in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123190540	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123190540-2	You could just say that these 443 million. In my rapporteur's speech, kr., which I mentioned, went to administration. We also saw it with the social card and so on. But let us now see how many employees are actually coming and how much is going to go into administration and bureaucracy. Then I would actually like to ask the Minister about such a little quirky, which I noticed, because I have read all the consultation answers, and I have also read the consultation note, and in the consultation note four lines have been taken from the consultation answer that came from the Danish Occupation and which are the only four lines that are actually positive. That is the only thing that can be seen from the consultation note. Everything else, which is quite negative, does not appear. Is there any particular reason why such a cherry picking has been made in the consultation note? Is there any particular reason for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123190625	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123190626	In fact, it is not my view that this has happened, and I would really like to return to what the rapporteur said in his earlier question, where there was not a question, but where the rapporteur started to conclude some things on behalf of others, which is such a style that the rapporteur runs very often. I would like to say that in Denmark we have a very, very long tradition of having free and private schools, and the rules that will apply in this area escape with the rules of free and private schools. In other words, making the claim that private institutions should not be able to operate in the future because of these rules is equivalent to saying that, on the basis of the legislation in Denmark, it is not possible to run private schools and free schools. So, I hope that most people who know the statistics in this area can nod in the affirmative that the number of free and private schools has so far increased quite significantly over the last 10-15 years, and it is on the basis of exactly the same thinking and the same way to put the rules together, and therefore it is simply nonsense and a question of wanting to draw up some sort of scaremongery. We have a desire not to use tax dollars to pay out profits, but to want the money to go to the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123190735	The next brief remark is to Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123190738	Thank you. I'd really like to, on behalf of Mr. Simpson. Jacob Mark starts by saying thank you to the Minister for the course of negotiations that has taken place and for how far we have really come. It's historically big. I mean, I don't know how far we have to go back in history to find such an amount and such an investment in children, which in reality is also a guarantee of children. So this is a huge step we are taking, also for the future. And I would like to say a great deal of thanks to the Social Democracy and the Government for contributing to that. I would just like to comment briefly on the proportion of managers in relation to adults who are out there, also in relation to the very important matter, it actually was also for us, to put an end to the fact that you can speculate financially on sending children early in kindergarten. It's also But anyway, when we say to the parents and to the kids that we now ensure this minimum rating, we should also get a little closer to that picture. I agree that we have agreed with each other, that we are looking at it and also looking at inventory methods as we go along, but I would still like to ask the Minister if he can also see any value in looking at that track.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123190859	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123190901	Yes, absolutely, so understood in that way that if I had all the money in the world I just didn't have that and we had to make a choice on the basis of the money that was dropped off, which is quite a lot of money, then there is a limit to how far one can go. And when we were faced with that limit, we had to make a very specific choice: should we choose to spend the money on putting an end to the speculation that might exist in moving a child up to kindergarten when the 2 years and 8 months instead of 2 years and 10 months? Should we put an end to this, or should we change the form of counting in relation to the leaders? I simply believe that we made the right choice, and when I put it that way, it means that, yes, of course, I think there is something relevant. It's just never that it's the only choice you can make. There will always be something you choose from when you choose something else, because the money is the money you have. And even if you found more money, you'd hit it again: if it was enough to reduce the leader's share to 60 or to 40 etc.? This means that you always reach the limit of how far the money goes in a given round. And you could say that with the bag of money we had, I think we made the right choice. So, of course, one can discuss whether it is smarter that it is 80% if it does not reflect reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123191015	Thank you. Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk does not want the floor for another round. There is one more brief comment, and it is to Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123191026	Thank you. I think it is crazy that the Minister spends so much of his time in this Chamber talking about the Left and what the Left says and does not say. I also have to say that this is a fucking scaremongering, the minister is out in the middle of it. The then blue government added 1 billion. kr. extra for the 1,000-day program. The then blue government added 8 million. kr. extra for social norms, just to mention some measures that were taken in the area of children. So why don't you just drop the scaremongering? Nobody wants to listen to them anyway. In addition, I would also like to point out very strongly that, contrary to the current government, the then government would continue to fight the sea for parents, regardless of what offer it is about whether it is a municipal or self-owned offer, whether it is private pass or municipal day care providers, to always have the opportunity to choose freely. There was the difference between the present and the then government. Then we must also be honest and say: minimum standards are not a flower grown in the backyard of the government. Now you make it sound like you've been on the beat this way, but the fact is that you've been sitting and resisting minimum standards. I am also aware that the Minister has said in the past: yes, we could have done this in other ways. That is why my question to the Minister today is: what other ways could this have been done? What was it you didn't find out before you went along with the support parties' galley?
ParlaMint-DK_20211123191147	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123191150	I spent time on the Left in my speech, and in saying that people do not care whether you are in favour of minimum standards or not, that is to say that you should just be indifferent to that, I would say: I do not think so. It may well be that the Left finds it a little unpleasant that we ask what the Left will do if the Left gets a majority. It may be that it feels unpleasant, but I think it is actually quite relevant that people know if the Left intends to rewind the minimum standards. One thing is the shape of it itself, but another is: Will you roll the money back? Well, some money was put in by us, by the way, we were part of one of the agreements where extra money was put into the budget, but when we then put a proper portion on top of it, it is quite relevant to ask: is it some that the Left intends to keep, or is it some that the Left doesn't intend to keep? In fact, I think that is relevant to ask. Then I'd say, you could do this in a lot of different ways. One could have chosen to pay the money flat to the municipalities, one could have chosen to make a mix of social norms, minimum standards, i.e. another mixed relationship, and one could have chosen all sorts of other models. There are all kinds of ways to do this. Summa summarum and that is in contrast to what we hear from the blue parties, we would all put 1.8 billion. kr. We cannot get a guarantee of this from the blue parties. I'm just a little surprised about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123191310	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123191313	What I thought people do not want to hear is scaremongering, and the Left has never proposed in our draft budget to remove the standards funds. So it's a scaremongering, and that's what people don't want to listen to. I simply asked the Minister what the Minister's approach to this was, when it has just been admitted in the past that there could be other good ways to do it here and what was of proposals. What the Minister is now mentioning here is simply the proposal of the then government, and then it is even more hopeless that the Left did not come in and become part of these negotiations on minimum standards, because we wanted to look at it. We're the ones who added the extra 1 billion. kr. (iii) social standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123191355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123191357	I do not know whether it is the case that the Left does not even remember what was said from up here by the Left's own rapporteur. It really is not very many minutes ago that the rapporteur of the Left stood up here and would not answer yes to the fact that there was a guarantee that the Left would not remove the 1.8 billion. kr. Well, maybe we're gonna have another round. I would therefore like to call on the rapporteur of the Left to do so. If the Left rapporteur thinks and wants to give a guarantee that the 1.8 billion. kr. If we do not get rid of them under a future left-wing government, then I think we should just take the floor. There's a great tradition that you can do another round. It is called the scaremongering that I stand up here and say that no guarantee will be given. After all, it was the rapporteur of the Left who stood up here a few minutes ago and did not want to give it a guarantee. That is to say, there is plenty of reason to just come up here and take another round, and then we can take the debate again. I would say that I take it as a confirmation that you are not interested in guaranteeing that money if you do not come up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123191457	Thank you, Minister. I do not see that anyone else has asked for the floor and that is why the first reading has ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123191528	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123191535	Thank you. This bill proposes to introduce a number of amendments and adjustments to the law on foreigners, the law on integration and the law on Danish education for adult foreigners. This is a so-called single law proposal. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe it is important that the legislation on foreigners is constantly adapted, and that is why every year these everything good comes from sea-law proposals from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration. The draft law proposes, among other things: to clarify and bring together the rules on special travel documents for foreigners and to standardise the rules on refusal and withdrawal of such travel documents. In addition, control efforts in the field of aliens are strengthened by creating a legal basis for refusing to issue or withdrawing special travel documents in more cases than at present. The fee for issuing special travel documents to aliens shall be raised if a valid or expired Danish travel document belonging to a foreigner cannot be presented. Next, the rules on payment for the issue of a replacement residence card are amended so that the fee for the issue of a replacement residence card becomes a statutory amount. In addition, a regulation on the use of the Schengen Information System for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals is implemented for the EU. Finally, it provides for the imposition of fines on undertakings in the event of incorrect marketing. This is in order to ensure the proper handling of persons on board aircraft arriving from non-schen countries. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123191715	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr. Mads Birded. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123191736	Thank you for the floor. The bill is a draft law, as has just been mentioned, which generally introduces a number of amendments and adjustments to the law on foreigners, the law on integration and the law on Danish education for adult foreigners. We believe it is important that we continually evaluate the laws that we adopt in the Folketing and look at whether they seem appropriate. If they do not, it is important that we make necessary corrections and adjustments, and we will do so with the draft law today. We also believe that it is important for us to step up our monitoring efforts in the field of foreigners. If there is a suspicion of misuse of travel documents, it is necessary that we create the necessary powers to refuse to issue or withdraw travel documents. We should not accept cheating and therefore it is good that there are clear rules and frameworks that are tightening up in this area. At the same time, the bill provides for us to strengthen entry controls at our airports with passengers from non-Schengen countries. We are looking forward to this because we do not want anyone to enter Denmark without knowing who that person is. The airlines have a special responsibility in this regard. They are the ones who ensure that passengers from non-Schengen countries come to Denmark, and they have a responsibility that there are no wrong removals. The bill also strengthens the integration and employment efforts, as active foreigners must have the same mandatory obligation to book their own job interviews as they currently apply to jobable foreigners. If they do not, the municipality will intervene and will be able to cut their benefits in the days when they do not actively book job interviews. We are also in favour of this. When it comes to foreigners, we must create rules and frameworks that ensure that they become part of society and get to work. And we've done that with these actions. With those words, I can tell you that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123191936	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are also no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I therefore welcome the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Krarup. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123191948	Thank you for the floor. L 82 is, as I said, a joint bill with everything good from the sea. These are a whole series of non-ideological clean-up proposals, a lot of pragmatic little things. I will not mention them all, it takes a very long time and many of them have already been mentioned. In the Danish People's Party we see it as a number of sensible clean-up measures, and the Danish People's Party can therefore support L 82.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123192018	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Halime Oguz. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123192039	Thank you, President. This bill proposes to introduce a number of minor amendments and adjustments to the law on foreigners, the law on integration and the law on Danish education for adult foreigners. In other words, this is a so-called joint legislative proposal in which we find everything good from the sea, and I would also say that, when there are so many different points, it would have been appropriate for the Minister to have called us for a meeting and also a technical review. However, I would like to say that we in the SF do not really have many comments on the proposal, which in its entirety is sensible. Because it is necessary for the legislation on foreigners to be constantly adapted to the reality in which we live. The draft law proposes, among other things: to clarify and bring together the rules on special travel documents for foreigners and to standardise the rules on refusal and withdrawal of such travel documents. The aim then is to strengthen controls in the field of foreign nationals by creating a legal basis for refusing to issue or withdrawing special travel documents in more cases than at present. Finally, it is a question of doubling the fee for issuing special travel documents to foreigners if a valid or expired Danish travel document belonging to a foreigner cannot be presented and changing the rules on payment for the issue of a replacement residence card, so that the fee for obtaining a replacement residence card becomes a legal amount. Finally, there is also a proposal to implement a regulation from the European Union on the use of the Schengen information system for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals, and on this occasion I would like to say that it is perhaps a little too much to impose a responsibility on the individual employee at, for example, an airport to correct a dysfunctional Schengen system. We believe that it must be possible to make a change so that the individual employee does not bear this great responsibility. But all in all, I would say that the SF supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123192321	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur, who is ready and present in the Chamber, is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Welcome to Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123192335	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration for another very special piece of legislation of a very technical nature. After all, the Minister knows that I always find it an exquisite pleasure to be treated in this Chamber. However, as I have done in the past, I would now like to recommend to the Minister that he divide up these legislative proposals in the future so that we can have a more qualified reading and a better debate on the various elements of the draft law. To be honest, it is a little difficult to have a debate about everything from imposing fines on airlines for digital self-booking of job interviews. One of the elements dealt with by the draft law, which I actually find the most interesting and which we would like to have time to go into in depth with the Minister during the committee procedure, is that part of the draft law which deals with the Council of Ethnic Minorities, or which it should be called in the future: the National Integration Council. Whether it's called one or the other, I don't think it's really what's important. The important thing is to note how important a role they play in the whole area of integration, and the Minister also acknowledges this in his pile of legislative proposals here and draws special attention to the importance of the knowledge held by the Council to the Minister, i.e. how much he draws on them. I also think it is very good to have such an expert council. We have that in many other areas, for example. The Council for Social Affairs, the Children's Council, the Council for Safe Transport, and that is how you could mention a lot of good experts who advise both the government, but also us in here at Christiansborg as well, and I think that is important when we have to make decisions so that we can take them on a qualified basis. I am therefore really surprised that the Minister is not going to do anything about the massive under-funding which is now going to be called the National Integration Council. As far as I am aware, the council has six months' work available from the Ministry for secretarial assistance and in addition 600,000 DKK. a year. And that is hardly a very long way to go, and it is also a much smaller amount than the other councils I have just mentioned receive for operation every year. So if, as I do, the Minister really believes that integration is important, if the Minister really wants us to have the best basis of knowledge before taking decisions in the field of integration, and if the Minister really wants to ensure better and successful integration, then I simply do not understand that this bill has not dropped any funds when we are asking some people to do this. I understand, at any rate, if you sit on the Council and are a little frustrated that you get some new tasks, that you are given a great deal of value, but that you do not get money to solve the task you are asked to solve, and I think that we owe it to a bigger conversation than the one we have in this Chamber today about a legislative proposal which is about, I would like to say 6 billion different things, and I know that it is not quite 6 billion, but it is just to express my great displeasure about this kind of legislative proposal where we do not have time to have a proper debate and where we cannot get into depth with it all. Having said that and with the pointed remarks, I would like to say, however, that the Enhedslisten is in favour of the proposal, but that we would really like to have a debate on what we are going to do with this Ethnic Minorities Council, which is now changing its name when this bill is adopted, and whether we really can afford to give them new and more tasks without giving them any more money. We would very much like to take that debate in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123192745	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Marcus Knuth. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123192756	Thank you very much, President. I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Rasmus Stoklund and several others have called this bill all good from the sea, or anything good from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs might be said. This is not meant as a criticism, because I am sure that we will come up with similar draft pick-up legislation ourselves when we have the power of government. The proposal contains a number of good measures, and I will not spend time standing and summing them up again. In particular, the control efforts in the field of foreigners are very good. We should not accept cheating, even when it comes to travel documentation. We are a little concerned about the fines that will be imposed on airlines who accidentally send passengers from, let us say, a Schengen area airport to a non-Schengen area. All other things being equal, it is probably not something the airlines do on purpose. We can also look at the consultation answers from Dansk Industri and Dansk Erhverv. That is what we hope to do in committee. But overall, I can say that Conservatives support the bill that lies here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123192855	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And since I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber at first reading here, I can already give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123192924	Thank you to the rapporteurs and parties for receiving the bill, and thank you for the discussion. I am, of course, pleased to note that there is a majority in favour and therefore support for the legislative proposal. I have to start by acknowledging that this is what is called in Christiansborgsk a draft law and which contains proposals for very different amendments to the law on foreigners, the law on integration, the law on Danish education for adult foreigners, etc. This is the case from time to time when we need to adjust and amend legislation, for example. ensure that the rules are transparent and up-to-date and work as intended. We propose, among other things: a number of changes to the rules on special travel documents for foreigners. Because of the construction of the existing rules on special travel documents for foreigners, they may be difficult for both citizens and authorities to understand, and we therefore propose to bring together and clarify the rules of a completely new provision in the Aliens Act. There is also a legal basis for issuing what is called laissez-passer, which has so far been followed by practice, as well as a fee for applying for laissez-passer. It is also sought to a large extent to standardize the rules on refusal to issue and withdrawal of special travel documents with the corresponding rules in the passport law for Danish nationals. In addition, it is proposed to extend the possibility for the Foreigners' Agency to respond to cases of misuse of special travel ID. The bill also contains a proposal to amend the rules on payment for the issue of replacement residence cards, so that the fee for the issue of such a card will be set out in the Aliens Act in the future. With the adoption of Bill No. L 185 of the last session made a number of changes, inter alia: The law on aliens, as a consequence of the new SIS regulations on the Schengen Information System, such as: implies that all return decisions must be entered into the SIS. Denmark has now moved one step further in the implementation of these very complex regulations, and a need has been identified to ensure that each immigration authority can legally access the necessary information from other immigration authorities in order to ensure appropriate and adequate processing. And it's solved in this bill by providing authorisation in the Aliens Act for the Minister to lay down detailed rules on how the tasks of these regulations are to be shared between the authorities. The next step is that for a number of years there have been cases at Copenhagen Airport, where people on board aircraft from non-Schengen countries have been wrongly dropped off and therefore have not been subject to the required entry controls. This is contrary to Denmark's obligations in Schengen cooperation, and we therefore propose that a legal basis be introduced to punish companies that are responsible for such wrong sentences. This should provide the necessary incentive for companies to ensure the proper handling of passengers at the airport so that proper entry controls can be carried out. The bill also contains a proposal to cancel the Online Danish offer. The offer was originally intended primarily for foreign workers and their families, but we can see that it is no longer the group that primarily uses the offer. Online Danish is only a supplement to Danish education, and all newly arrived foreigners living in Denmark are offered free Danish education now that we have removed the fee. This is something they are offered under the law on Danish education for adults, and that offer, of course, continues to apply to its full extent. Then there is a small element in the bill with a number of amendments to the integration law; including the suggestion that the duty of jobable aliens to book their job interviews themselves in the job centre digitally should be extended to include active aliens, among others. in order to maintain uniformity across target groups in the field of foreign and employment. The corresponding draft legislation in the field of employment will be discussed later today. It is also proposed that the focus on the advice of the local integration councils should be adjusted and extended, so that the whole coherent integration effort will be at the heart of the activities of the integration councils. It is still voluntary for each municipality to set up a local integration council. The proposal means that the framework for setting up local integration councils will be simplified so that local councils will be free to decide on the composition of the local integration council at local level. And here I can add that the local integration councils are following the municipal election period, i.e. the four-year cadence, which means that the new municipal councils that have just been elected can choose to set up local integration councils as part of their constitution. And I can only call on the members of the Folketing, who are all familiar with newly elected mayors and members of the municipal council, to point out to them that it is therefore now in connection with the constitution that they can set up these local integration councils. Finally, it is proposed to adjust the functioning of the Ethnic Minorities Council so that the focus of the Council's advice to the Minister should be on issues of importance to the integration effort in Denmark • as opposed to now, when the Council advises on issues of importance to refugees and immigrants. In the same context, the Council will change its name to the National Integration Council, so that the role and functioning of the Council are reflected in the name. I have said a little square that we should not have a trade union for immigrants, we should have an expert council of people who know about integration policy. In those words, I would like to thank you for today's debate on the many initiatives in the legislative proposal, and I am pleased, as I said, that there is support for it. And if there are questions relating to the committee procedure, that is more than understandable and we will be on the verge of getting everything answered as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123193513	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. There are no brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123193542	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Henrik Møller. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123193551	Thank you. It can be said that this is the result of the political agreement on compensation for mink growers and followers affected by Covid-19, where it was stated that a special effort should be made to support the redevelopment, growth and employment of the municipalities particularly affected by the killing of mink and to help those employed in the professions further in new jobs. The parties agreed to allocate 50 million. kr. to a targeted upgrading effort for unemployed minks in 2021. In the meantime, some of these people who have worked in the industry are expected to be unemployed only in 2022 and therefore not benefit from the right to education. In addition, there has been a limited consumption of the conversion pool. That is why it is now proposed to extend the right to training for unemployed people who have worked in the mink industry or in the secondary sector. It is the circle behind the broad agreement on compensation, etc. to minkers and followers affected by the covid-19 agreed. The draft law is therefore an implementation of the agreed extension. In concrete terms, the draft law provides for an extension of the scheme for the provision of training to persons who have worked in the mink industry or in the secondary sector within the conversion pool. In addition, the draft law also contains an amendment to the Working Conditions Act. It is the case that there are problems with GDPR today. This means that this change means that the Minister of Employment is authorised to lay down detailed rules on responsibilities and tasks in relation to the processing of personal data about the unemployed in relation to the current and future help tools and solutions of the Labour Inspectorate which can help companies create a safe and healthy environment. With this change it will be the case that the working environment will meet GDPR legislation requirements in relation to apv tools, and they can be used again by companies after the adoption of the bill. Social democracy can support both parts of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123193800	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123193805	Thank you. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur has any idea what the reason for the pot not being used better and whether this may be due to the government's efforts in this area: that it has not come out well enough, and that the government itself may be holding up mink growers and mink employees who should have used this pool.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123193829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123193830	I find this extremely difficult to imagine being the main cause of this. I would recommend that a written question should be sent and that the ministry should then be able to answer. I can only answer on the basis of what I think of it, but I do not know exactly. One of the things is, of course, that today we have to deal with an extension, which means that there are a number of things that have not been called for, simply because they have not ceased their employment yet, and that is why we are also extending to 2022.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123193903	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123193903-2	I assume that the rapporteur is aware that mink growers and also some employees are still employed because the government has forced them to maintain their farms for three years before they may be compensated. If the government were to bring it to an end, there would also be more people who could be ready to move on. However, there are many who are locked down because there are so many unfinished business relating to the replacement of farms. I know that some people have been compensated for the skins, but there are many other things that lag behind and are missing before they can move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123193943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123193943-2	I regard this as more of a comment than a real question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123193948	There will then be no further brief comments to the rapporteur, thank you to Mr Seligman. Henrik Møller, Social Democratic Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123193958	Thank you. In January, the Left, the Government, the Radical Left, the SF and the Liberal Alliance jointly concluded an agreement on compensation, etc. to minkers and secondary industries affected by covid-19. And together we have decided to extend within a pool the right to training of persons who have worked in the mink industry or in the secondary sector. And now, the proposal is so that as a result of the fact that it is not used and that people are still active in the mink industry to extend the pool up to and including 2022. And these are, at the moment, many unknown factors for the people employed in the mink industry and the follow-up industries. As I have said, many are still in an unresolved situation regarding the possibility of resuming their profession. Therefore, it makes sense to extend the pool. And for the Left, it is important that all those who have been affected by the Minkskan Valley receive the necessary help to move forward in their working life as well as in their private lives. And that is why it is also crucial for the Left that this process should be carried out with minimal bureaucratic trouble. This bill is expected to be implemented, and the Left can back that up. We consider it essential to follow the task very closely. We have a clear expectation that if there is a need to extend that pool further into 2023, then we need to have a discussion on it. And we must also follow the task in such a way that we ensure that the money we are talking about here actually comes out and will benefit the people affected by the fact that they can no longer work in the mink industry. And we look forward to that, and we will follow it closely. Against this background, the Left can support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123194155	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123194214	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by saying that we in the Danish People's Party support the proposal. Because it is always good that when someone is involuntarily caught up in the system and needs to move on, they also get help. That is quite natural, and I also agree with Mr Beazley. Hans Andersen in this with whether it should continue in 2023. It is also an opportunity, because so many minks and employees are unsolved. We also know that the fur auctions are going to close at a time when there are also some employees who need to move on. But one of the reasons why there may not be such a high level of consumption is that there are a great many mink growers who are locked in the system because the government has agreed with their support parties to close the mink business: Well you must keep your farms at just 3 years, because they should not lose value. If the government were to pull itself together and complete the claims, the money was paid out to the minkkeepers so that they could move on and to the accompanying industries, which must also have money, that is, if it were to be clarified quickly so that they could move on, then we would have a different situation. And then somebody could say, "Well, okay, this is over for me now." Now I have a basis for moving on. But they're locked down because they're still out of business, as long as they have these farms to hold on to. And that's the cost to them when they have to keep them close. But they have no income to keep them in line for. So my call is for the government to pull itself together and close those cases as soon as possible. It is rude of the government to have three years before they can get a replacement for the mink farms that they have been forced to shut down. It doesn't belong anywhere, and I really think the government should be ashamed of itself. I would urge the Minister to go back and say that this must be concluded. I know that the acting minister is not the minister responsible for this mishmash that has been made, but the minister has relations with the Prime Minister, hopefully unless it has disappeared in a text message. So the Minister should go back to the Prime Minister and to the current Minister of Food and Food and say: this is what we need to conclude. We cannot be familiar with the mink. We must complete it so that the people who are locked in a system can be compensated for their farms, they can move on and say: Now it is a completed capital, we will never have mink again, but it is not completed chapter. And they get that compensation. That is my call to the government here today. And I really think the Minister should take it seriously. I know the minister isn't responsible for this. Other ministries are responsible for this. However, it is a scandal that the Prime Minister has brought all the mink growers into the situation they are in now without being able to bring their mink to an end. But the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123194553	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I am sorry that the time record has apparently disappeared right now, but it remained fine within the speaking time and then we must try to be helpful in the observance of time if necessary. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party. Welcome to sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123194611	In other words, what we have to deal with now is how we can pass on the people who come from a profession that has been de facto abandoned. Of course, and I would also like to say that the way in which we have dealt with this matter could be a good inspiration to other industries and professions which in future may be exposed to ugliness in the business world and therefore experience their jobs disappearing. There we must feel a responsibility to get people on the road, of course, especially in a situation where it is due to a political decision that a profession has actually been abandoned. But the very idea behind it, in fact, seems to me to be that we should also carry on to the professions which are other reasons why they will disappear. When it comes to getting people on through education and to new jobs, you shouldn't stumble on the middle ground because you won't get a share in the pot in the year when the money is allocated to it. That is why it is, of course, a good idea to extend it, and if it were to happen, we would have to have a discussion on whether it should be extended further. Then I would like to say to the second part of the legislative proposal that it is also quite obvious that we must ensure the legislation on the clash that may exist between the GDPR legislation and the apv tool, in other words, have brought them into line with each other. So SF supports the bill. And then I would like to greet our friends, I would say, from our acquaintances, colleagues, partners in the Radical Left and say that they are also voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123194751	It's noted. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then I can see that the Enhedslisten rapporteur is ready, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123194757	Thank you. After all, the legislative proposal is about facilitating the way to retraining, retraining and training for people who have worked with mink. No, it doesn't really matter what section 1 is about, and Enhedslisten can support it. We want those who have worked in the mink industry to be able to make good progress. But we are also interested in seeing an assessment of how much qualification comes from removing all the usual trip wires, carnage periods, etc. and gives these extraordinary conditions, and we would like to see an assessment of how much retraining and retraining could be increased in general if similar conditions were offered in other sectors. We think it is right to extend the scheme by one year until 31 December 2022, but we will also be open if the Minister arrives before then with a well-founded desire to extend the scheme further. But then there's section 2, and it's about something completely different that has nothing to do with it. Again, a bill has been made to confuse things that have nothing to do with each other, and section 2 is about the Danish Labour Inspectorate. So our first effort will therefore be to divide the proposal into two. When the Danish Labour Inspectorate provides help tools to companies for example: To make apvs, it is clear that rules on the distribution of data liability may need to be laid down. But it's not just the same thing to do, because there's another factor that's involved. The Factory Inspectorate has a duty to provide guidance, but if services are provided that go into counselling, the Factory Inspectorate is set to use their funds incorrectly, or they must be provided with the means to carry out an advisory task, because they do not already have it. In the consultation answer, the DA and FH also state that it is a very short consultation period for something new, and we agree with that. We have noted that the Minister has indicated in this regard that the parties will be consulted before making use of an authorisation, but that means that the Employment Committee will be involved in the same way, I expect. So, for us, it is important that a proposal is put forward to divide the legislative proposal into its two components, and I hope that several lawyers will nod yes to that being a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123195014	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party. Welcome to sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123195023	Thank you very much. They have chosen to slaughter an entire profession and their animals, and they have made an agreement on compensation that we are not part of, and now we are looking at this law about the employment effort and also this with training for employees in the mink industry, which is due to be in 2022, and we are also positive about looking at it in 2023 if necessary. Compared with the second part of that, my predecessor is absolutely right: this is a matter of advice. And there, in committee, I will be a little worried about private companies, who are also doing a lot of work in the field of health and safety, and we will ask a few questions about this at second reading. However, Conservatives support the proposal as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123195120	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I cannot see any more rapporteurs wishing to speak at least not here in the first round. I can give the floor to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123195131	Let me start by thanking you for the positive treatment that the draft law has received today and for the comments that have fallen from the various parties. It is true, as has already been said, that the draft law has two paragraphs; it contains two amendments to the law. One extends the right to training for persons who have worked in the mink profession or secondary occupation up to and including 2022. The second gives authority to lay down rules on the processing of personal data by the Labour Inspectorate, so that the apv tool can be used again by the companies in the country. The Corona crisis has had major consequences for companies and employees across the country, particularly for the mink industry, which, for the sake of Danish public health, had to kill their animals. This is why, with the political agreement on compensation for mink growers and follow-up jobs, we granted unemployed people from the mink industry and follow-up occupations the right to training for the rest of 2021 within a pool of 50 million. kr. However, the industry continues to be in liquidation and will also be in 2022. That is why we propose to extend the right to offer training for unemployed people who have worked in the mink industry or follow-up occupations, so that they also have the right to training throughout next year. The Court applies to all types of training, from short vocational courses to full vocational training. This gives the unemployed person the best cards on hand to make an industry change or to take the step from unskilled to semi-skilled. The right to training ensures that the unemployed concerned can start training as soon as possible because the job centre does not have to evaluate the individual training first. At the same time, the municipalities receive 100% coverage. the costs of the training provided by the pool. I hope that the bill will make it easier for the unemployed concerned to find a foothold in new industries that can benefit from building on their competences. The second part of the bill, as mentioned earlier, provides the legal framework necessary to determine the distribution of data liability so that it is again easier for the country's companies to make their workplace assessment. On the basis of the political agreement on a new and improved work environment and industrial relations from April 2019, the Labour Inspectorate has developed the digital tool that we call the apv tool. The tool helps companies to make the statutory workplace assessment. However, the Labour Inspectorate has found that there is a lack of clarity with regard to data protection legislation and the use of the apv tool. Therefore, the tool is temporarily shut down. With the bill on follow-up notice, the processing of personal data by the Danish Labour Inspectorate, when companies use the apv tool, will be done in full compliance with data protection legislation. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that with the bill we can give unemployed people from the mink industry and follow-up industries a targeted effort that can quickly help them move on to jobs in other industries, including the many green jobs that arise from the green transition, and that at the same time we strengthen the Labour Inspectorate's processing of personal data so that companies can use the apv tool again. And I look forward to the further examination of the proposal. I can hear that a few committee questions are already under way, and we are naturally looking forward to answering them.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123195444	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123195449	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. What we are concerned with is to ensure that mink growers and employees in different accompanying industries make the best possible progress, and we are very happy and satisfied that we can extend these opportunities into 2022. We are, in fact, also of the opinion, and that is what the question is about: if it turns out that there is a need, and that can be a gratifying thing, because there are some people who are working in this profession in 2022 and who are only going to need help in 2023, then we in the Left think, and that is what I would like a comment from the Minister, that we should also look at possibly extending this possibility into 2023, just as we have done now with 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123195541	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123195542	Well, let's shake hands with each other. In other words, if there is a need to extend the pool to 2023, we would very much like to discuss it with the parties to the agreement. When we get a little further into 2022, we also know the actual consumption of the pot and maybe, on the basis of it, discuss with each other whether there is a need to continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123195606	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123195608	Thank you for that commitment. And then it is all about, we believe, that together we also ensure that the funds are now also coming out, in the municipalities and in the job centres, and in a completely unbureaucratic way, helping people to their next working life and jobs, and that is where I think it is important that both the Minister and we follow this closely, so that this pool does not collect dust in a corner or be spent on bureaucracy, but that we ensure that the pool now actually provides real help to the people who need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123195654	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123195654-2	Well, I quite agree with that. In other words, we are putting the money aside because it needs to be used for education, not because it needs to be spent on bureaucracy. When we made the agreement in the spring, we also agreed to translate the pool, so the municipalities are reporting by 1 April 2022, and this means that we can only after 1 April next year say with certainty what the consumption has been below the pool in 2021. I think that this is a good agreement we have made, because we need to make sure that the municipalities do not have to spend more time than is necessary on financial reporting, and we will ensure that they do so only once. But I think that as soon as we start to approach that date, we can start to discuss with each other, so we can start to see consumption, and then we can have a qualified discussion with each other about whether there are actual offshoots on this or there aren't.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123195751	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123195821	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, welcome to Mr. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123195826	Thank you. Soon it will be the case that the first Danes with the longest and hardest working lives will retire when they can retire early from January 2022. I know that there are some who rejoice and who are extremely happy and relieved to have had this opportunity. And I want to say that I am also delighted on their behalf... I think it's them, I guess. Today we are going to deal with the implementation of the agreement reached by the government by a majority back in June, namely the first partial agreement on the rethinking of employment efforts. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that strong employment efforts are an important part of our flexicurity model. It can be said that right now there is probably a tendency for job centres to be entangled in a heavy bureaucratic network with some rigid checklists and useless activation for activation. Aid is not necessarily targeted, and we are simply spending the money wrong. This is why we propose, with the bill here, to simplify the procedural requirements of the municipalities' action towards educational aid recipients and instead to give young people better support in the transition to education. Specifically, this means that we allow the municipalities to organise a more flexible effort, so that after 1 January 2022 there must be 4 months between each offer, where today there may be no more than 4 weeks. In addition, the target group will also be entitled to self-found enterprise practices and wage subsidies, as well as a right to mentor support in the transition from jobless to training. This also obliges the job centres to respond to messages about the risk of apostasy in educational institutions. One might say that to some extent we are moving from a kind of automation to an individualisation where we are starting from the individual young people. With this, we are also helping to support the opportunities for job centres to make use of the good experiences we have gained during the corona closure in relation to digital conversations. It is the case that we will provide funding for early retirement by pulling up some of these bureaucratic fence posts. We will strengthen and we will target efforts and spend money on efforts that actually bring young people closer to the labour market or education. Finally, I should also like to mention that the draft law contains a number of minor proposals which are outside the scope of the partial agreement on the rethinking of employment efforts. It acts among other things. on the implementation of the agreement on the economy of the municipalities between the government and KL in relation to a task gliding from WorkinDenmark to the municipalities designated as International Citizens Service municipalities. It is also a response to the recommendations from the monitoring of support for the digital youth effort, which involves targeting information between the municipality and the educational institution when the young person starts training. From the Socialist side, we can support all parts of the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123200141	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks on behalf of the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr. Hans Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123200150	Thank you. The employment effort needs to be looked at in the seams, and there are many ways in which we can succeed even better. The draft law we are discussing today has several good elements, among others. a digital conversation with the job center, which the Left has been working for a long time to complete. That part supports the Left, of course. The proposal also contains elements which have not grown in our backyard, because we do not believe that we should relax the requirements of educational aid recipients, because relaxing the requirements is not the way we should go. That is why we are also of the opinion that the legislative proposal should be split up. We cannot support the fact that the help provided to young people today is therefore a right to a quick conversation and the right to frequent conversations if you are unemployed as a young person, as agreed by the parties to the early retirement agreement. In the Left, on the other hand, we believe it is important that young people under 30 who are not in education or jobs should be given an attachment and help to get back to work as soon as possible so that they do not fall through and prolong their unemployment period. That is why it is absolutely crucial, and that is why we in the Left do not find it the right way to go, to make the time when you can get into dialogue with your job centre as a young person, longer, but we must ensure that there are frequent conversations. That's the way we help young people best. That is why the Left cannot support the part of the bill that is about reducing aid to young people who have the most difficulty, but we can support the part that is about us embarking on a natural digitalisation of employment efforts. Those were the words. And then I should like to say hello to the Radical Left, who is of the same opinion as the Left in this matter. The Radical Left therefore supports digitisation, but the Radical Left does not support the elements that are about how we are now reducing aid to young unemployed people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123200444	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left, and the compliments of the Radicals have been noted. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123200502	This bill is, like, sir. Henrik Møller explained part of the early retirement agreement, so I will not go into that in depth. Mr. Henrik Møller already done. That agreement should be financed by simplifying active employment efforts. That part here is then the youth effort that is being simplified. What lies in it is that you change it to that there must be 4 months between each offer, where today there may be no more than 4 weeks. But the young person has to say that hopefully the young person has also had a good conversation with the caseworker and found out what the young person is supposed to do. I have so little difficulty with that, I have to say to see it here that it has to be 4 months apart from each offer, because in my view a young person who is ready for training should have the right guidance for an education. Then it doesn't help to let 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 years go by, where they can get an offer every four months, and of course we have to keep an eye on that. After all, I expect the Minister to secure these offers, because young people should be on their way within a year. There are so many educations that start up in a year. Then they should have moved on. They may not be ready for training, but they can take an education. Then the question is whether this is the right direction for them. That is where the mentor support, which is also contained in this proposal, comes in that they need the right help to move forward. It's also a very good thing. I really think that if they find a company practice with a wage subsidy, they get the right to have it. They are now allowed to get the self-found internship. Because there are some who made agreements with an employer to get into business practice with them, but they have been rejected because they could not then get the wage subsidy. But it is a very good thing and it must also help them to move on. But there is just the fact that this company practice should, of course, result in them perhaps getting training in that area. It shouldn't be something they just find, so they're working for so long. It should be linked to the fact that they need an education. If, for example, they do: If you have a business practice in a store, it must be because they want to work in a store. It's not like they're supposed to be blacksmiths. Otherwise, it doesn't add up. The company strategy must be targeted at where they want training, and that is what should lie in the first conversation with the job centre. They must make an action plan: what is it that the young person wants to train for? And it is on the basis of what should then be allowed to get a company practice with wage subsidies. In this context, the mentoring system that is going to be used can be used. Job centres are also obliged to respond to this if feedback is given that the young person is not doing so well at the educational establishment and intervene instead of just letting time pass, because then you have to find out what it is you can help the young person with. There is also the fact that, after 6 months of unemployment, unemployed people are given the opportunity to choose whether interviews with the job centre or unemployment fund should be held by personal attendance or video or telephone. This is quite fine for the Danish People's Party, but you should perhaps give them a little more free rein to decide and deal out in the job centre and unemployment fund, how often you should actually have that contact, because if it is now the case that there is a chance to get them on, it is unfortunate if the contact is only every two or every three months. It does not matter, for my sake, if it is every week that you are so in contact, if there is an opportunity to get a job or an internship, and it can be taken care of by the job centre and unemployment fund and then communicate. However, as I have said, we support the proposal, so we are part of it, but we have to keep an eye on the fact that it will not just be a jar with the four months for young people, but that they will also move on and something will happen to them. Otherwise they may just go and wait indefinitely, and that is not the point of being on educational aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123201023	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party. It's sir. Karsten Hønge. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123201030	The possibility of early retirement is one of the greatest social progress we have made for many years. Finally, a little fairness for those with the longest and hardest working lives and often also with the lowest wages. It was good, and it was high time that we were able to reach out to those people who had so much work done. But it has to be financed, and with the bill we are now debating, we will then find some of the funding through savings at the job centres. This happens, among other things, by turning down the process requirements for the efforts of young people under 30 years of age who are ready for training and activity without a qualification. It is the case that there can now be 4 months between each offer, where today there may be no more than 4 weeks. I would also like to be quite honest and say that this part of the change in effort for young people is not just an idea that has come from the SF. SF would have preferred to have seen a permanentisation and an extension of the insurance fund attempt for the insured unemployed. This is something we are working hard to continue to do, and we will raise it again in the next round of savings at the job centres when it starts. But that is the way it is; when we have to find money, it is not always one's own favorite area from which it comes. And when it comes from this effort, we also have to say that we have very often heard from the municipalities that today, simply in order to comply with this 4-week injury, they sometimes make a somewhat random offer just to get an offer instead of going into a more considered and relevant offer to young people. In addition, it is at the same time as in the agreement and in the bill that this group will in turn be entitled to mentor support in the transition from education to training to support them, and this has been a wish of the SF for a very long time. Because it is precisely at the beginning that many young people are falling away. And then there's the extra thing about this group of young people getting the right to self-found business practices and wage subsidies. With the bill, we also make this form of conversation for the unemployed more flexible, so that after six months they can choose for themselves whether the conversations should be with the job centre or with the cashier, and whether they should be physically, phoneically or digitally. We think that makes a great deal of sense, especially on top of the good experiences that the coronate has given us, in terms of how to conduct these conversations in the coffers and at job centres.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123201331	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur. It's for mr. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123201337	I had thought that it was Tuesday evening and late, but I cannot help it because the SF's rapporteur is really upset about this saving in the effort for young people. I think that view has the country's job centres and job consultants who help the most vulnerable young people out there, too. For the proposal will, in fact, result in savings of 300 million. kr. in the municipalities; there are fewer job centres, fewer consultants, fewer people who can help young people. I have to say that there is a great deal of precision in how this saving is now targeted at the most vulnerable young people. There I had hoped that creativity might have been a little greater among the parties to the agreement. Perhaps the rapporteur could make a few comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123201447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123201450	Well, I guess it's 347 million. kr. to be found. This has to be seen as part of a saving where we have to end up at 1.1 billion. kr. in order simply to finance the necessary support for those who have been longest in the labour market and had the hardest jobs, mostly for the lowest wages. That's why this saving process we're in is going to have to cover a lot of different things. I'll give Mr. Hans Andersen is right that you could have chosen some others, and as I said myself: In SF we would rather have found the money somewhere else, namely among other things. by perpetuating and extending the cash-flow experiment. Then, when we end up with this, I would say that it is probably true, as Mr. Hans Andersen says that there are job consultants and people in the job centres and municipalities who think that this is a bad idea, because they think that it is consistent and in principle always that it is a bad idea to find savings at local level. But if you have to find the savings, I think you are actually targeting process requirements more than you are targeting young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123201552	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123201553	But you just have to be very concerned about what the translation is about, that we remove procedural requirements. That really means that young people will have fewer rights to have conversations, to get offers. In relation to going from 4 weeks to 4 months between each offer, I am very, very concerned that there are a large number of young people here who will experience a very long period when nothing happens on their way back to the labour market. And I'm a little grieved that the SF and the parties to the agreement have then ignored it and have chosen to make that saving this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123201644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123201645	Well, now there doesn't have to be 4 months. That's it, sir. Hans Andersen has heard from some job centres. There are some job centres and some consultants who are sorry this is being taken away. But it's not like it works so great today. I have heard from some who are tired of the money being taken, but I have heard from a lot of municipalities who say that there has been too much process in the way you are doing today and that you can make more relevant offers much more thoughtfully, by having a longer period of time when you talk to young people about where they fit in and getting the offers addressed so that they are relevant and so that they are more tailored to the individual. This will probably still mean that some people think they should do differently, but the municipalities are free to do so. So if you have a job centre and you have a municipality where you can see that here we have a young person who doesn't have the benefit of waiting for four months, then I think they should start right away.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123201735	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123201745	Thank you. I don't want to deal so much with the bill itself. We'll vote for it. But we have an objection to the way it has been done. When we agreed at the time that funding could be found for the restructuring of employment efforts, we were very clear in the spit. We wanted a joint approach because the area is so complex and because the individual interventions affect each other. Nevertheless, the government chose to cut a heel and cut a toe and present a sub-proposal that could already be included in the 2022 Finance Act. We are not satisfied with this and we look forward very much to the forthcoming negotiations on the rest of it as a whole. Having said that, however, there are some positive measures in the proposal. My translation relaxes pointless forced activation in the effort to get young people into employment or training, while at the same time ensuring a more hand-held effort with mentoring support for young people at risk of falling out of their education. If we have at the same time been assured that a young person who has a particular desire for a particular internship, a job with wage subsidies or the like can get it, we believe that something good can actually come of it for young people. On the other hand, the second part of the proposal, which deals with the relationship between personalised and digital conversations, is probably not fully thought out, which in turn advocates that we have a more comprehensive overall approach. One can consider the wisdom that it is only after six months that people can go to digital meetings, while at the same time perhaps this is the time when they start to approach a long-term unemployment situation. So there needs to be some more concrete reflection on what is best in this context. However, we live with the system of saying that it is absolutely crucial for us that people who want non-digital conversations are always entitled to them. As far as the other measures are concerned, they are all about the way the municipalities manage different interventions, so I live with them crowded in, but they have little to do with this. So it is again a matter of making pile proposals, and we do not like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123202004	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123202012	Thank you very much. We have in Denmark approx. 45,000 young people aged 15-24 who are unemployed and have been for a long period of time and we don't really know what is doing. I can be extremely afraid that they will be kept in that unemployment and locked in this aid system, if you can call it that, and I simply find that extremely difficult to see ourselves in. So we cannot support that part of the proposal. On the other hand, we can, of course, say that I support the part of the proposal relating to video conversations, and we would like to see, like the Left and the Radical Left, a split up of the proposal and thus say 'yes' to one part and 'yes' to the other part of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123202106	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks, and as I do not see any more rapporteurs present in the Chamber who have wanted to speak, I can welcome the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123202128	Let me begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the discussion of the draft law, which implements the first partial agreement on the rethinking of the employment service. The draft law relaxes a number of procedural requirements in the employment effort for young people receiving training aid. In this way, job centres are given a little more freedom to organise their activities according to the needs of each young person. The action must be individually organised, each young person must have the relevant offer at the right time, and young people must not have an offer for the sake of the offer. The proposal, if adopted, means that from 1 January 2022 up to 4 months may be allowed between each offer, which today may not exceed 4 weeks. Young people must continue to receive the first offer within the first month. The draft law also gives young people receiving training aid a new right to mentor support when they start training. It is important to take action so that the young person is kept in education. Job centres are also required to respond to messages about the risk of apostasy to educational establishments within the first six months of the start of training. This applies to young people with training requirements. This means that the job centre must contact the young person and assess whether initiatives need to be taken to keep the young person in education. The draft law also gives young people receiving training assistance the right to self-found work experience and wage subsidy employment, and it helps young people to take responsibility for their own careers. Finally, with the bill, unemployed people will be able to decide for themselves whether interviews with the job centre and the cashier will take place by personal attendance, by telephone, on Skype or in other video form when they have been unemployed for 6 months. In addition to implementing the first partial agreement, the draft law also contains a number of other initiatives, including: is about the four International Citizens Service municipalities taking over parts of Workindenmark's tasks. I look forward to the further discussion of the draft law and, of course, I will make myself available to the next committee. And I must also say, as I can hear that there is a desire to divide the bill, that we on the part of the government are, of course, prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123202342	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. There are no brief remarks to the Minister, and since no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211123202358	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 24 November 2021, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
