ParlaMint-DK_20211111142318	The meeting is open. I would ask Members to take their seats.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111142334	The matter included in paragraph 1 of the agenda can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. The vote will therefore be taken on paragraph 1 of the agenda and, as you know, there will be a three-quarters majority for such consent.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111142346	A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 96 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG, ALT and 2 UFG (Nas Khader and Orla Østerby)), against 2 (NB), abstention 0. The agreement is thus given and we can go to the item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111142420	No amendments have been tabled. I should like to ask: does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111142452	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 96 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG, ALT and 2 UFG (Nas Khader and Orla Østerby)), against 2 (NB), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister. We've finished the point, and we can just breathe for 30 seconds. It was today's last vote, and those who want to leave the Chamber can now do so in a calm and orderly manner. It's gonna be a minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111142624	The debate is open and we shall give the floor first to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111142638	Thank you. The expenditure ceilings laid down in the Budget Act are simply a matter of state, municipalities and regions spending no more money than has been agreed politically. It is a widespread misunderstanding that the budget law itself imposes a limit on the level of expenditure in the municipalities and regions. The law simply says that you have to stick to the agreed financial framework. That sounds like common sense to me, and the budget law actually works. Public expenditure is under control after several years in the '00s, when agreements have been overtaken over and over again. In practice, the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution leads to the abolition of the control of expenditure ceilings introduced by the Budget Act. The government is opposed to that. The Budget Act supports sound public finances and budgetary stability. In addition, the Budget Act has been adopted by a broad majority of the Danish Parliament, albeit without the Enhedslisten. The agreement was made in 2012, and then we agreed that the law should be evaluated, and in order to create the best possible professional basis for the evaluation, the Ministry of Finance has launched analyses of the experiences with the Budget Act. The professional analyses will form the basis for a political discussion this spring, and the government will of course be happy to discuss the regulatory framework of the law. This also applies to the flexibility of expenditure management, which the government is also concerned with. The government is aware that there will be different approaches to how best to control public finances, and here, of course, the Enhedslisten's criticisms will be taken on an equal footing with other views. Since we have already agreed to evaluate the budget law, I will not go into the concrete elements of the law today, but I look forward to having an open discussion on the budget law next spring and there will be an opportunity to hear the views of the parties and then to take our decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111142834	Thank you. And there are a few brief comments. The first is for Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111142838	Thank you. My question here is not about the SF's position on the resolution. I shall deal with that. But I just want to hear about something from the Minister for Finance, because I share the Enhedslisten's concern about the perhaps unintended consequences of the law as it is today. Does the Minister for Finance not think that it is a problem that there is underspend in the region of 11⁄2 billion every year? It is money that should have gone to educators, to sosus, welfare workers, money that has been set aside. It is not a discussion about how much you want to consume or not. It is money that has been set aside but is not being spent because there are some sanctions that are so harsh that you do not dare to use what you really need.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111142936	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111142937	My starting point is that we need exactly what has been agreed, no more and no less. And what has been the problem for a number of years is that not least the municipalities spent much more than what was the agreement, and that is why it has also been introduced that there is a sanction associated with it if you spend more than what you have agreed with each other. And when it's important to keep to agreements, it's all about life, and that's also true between the state and the municipalities, it's for us to manage the economy. On the other hand, of course, I also think that it is a task for the municipalities and, for that matter, the regions to budget so precisely and purposefully, so that the money that has been agreed is, of course, spent for the purposes for which they have been agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111143031	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111143032	Well, you might think so, but now we can just see year after year that there is underconsumption in the region of 11⁄2 billion. kr. It's like 3,000 educators, so it's not in the small stuff department. It is not because the municipalities say: we do not care not to spend the money that we have the right to spend. It is a mistake of the law that it is so tight that so much is consumed. The Minister for Finance cannot be satisfied with the under-utilisation of 3,000 educators in the region.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111143110	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111143111	I am quite sure that we agree that it is the responsibility of the municipalities when they have been given a financial framework that they do not exceed it on the one hand, but also make the best use of it for what is needed in the municipalities. We have had a long discussion earlier today on how to look after our welfare, not least in a situation where more children and older people will, fortunately, be coming in the coming years. So I am a great supporter of the fact that the municipalities are spending the money that has been agreed for the purposes for which they have been agreed. But also by not spending more money than has been agreed with me as Finance Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111143156	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111143157	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. I quote, and what I quote is Stephanie Lohse, who is President of the Danish regions, and who wrote in a speech: The fear of being set off means that for many years the individual institutions have spent less money than there really was room for, with the result of service losses. Can the Minister understand that reasoning? In other words, if you just reach a border, you get a proper spanking over your fingers. By the way, your neighbors get it too and then it makes sense to stay at appropriate distance from that border. And so you spend less than you could actually do.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111143248	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111143249	In other words, for a number of years the challenge has been the opposite; not least in the municipalities we have seen that, year after year, fine agreements were made with the finance minister in office at all times about how much money could be spent. And then it happened that much more was spent than what had been agreed. That is why sanctions are also involved if agreements are not complied with. I think it is a very important task for both the municipalities and the regions to have such precise financial management that we do not stop long before we really needed it, but just deliver on what has been agreed. And it is a task that lies outside the municipalities and regions; it is their responsibility. Such is the division of labour when we make agreements between municipalities, regions and the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111143358	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111143359	But as Stephanie Lohse points out, it is a completely impossible task, because the way it is done is that from the top of the region or the municipality report down through the system: Stay away from the border. And when everyone does it down through the whole system, all the way down to the individual institution, that means that there will be an underuse. You can't control it, so you just get to the border. And that is why there is a huge amount of money that is not being spent. But then I would like to ask the Minister for Finance something: I guess you can use them next year. I mean, if you've spent less this year, you can use them next year, can't you?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111143439	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111143439-2	After all, we make agreements one year at a time, which means that we expect people to abide by the agreements we make from year to year. And I think that is an excellent principle. Then we have a thought about the possibility of making multiannual budgets. There are some advantages to this, and there may be some challenges to it. However, this is one of the considerations that can be taken into account in the evaluations, so that it can be better planned over a slightly longer period of time. That's some of what we're looking at, too, if could be a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111143517	Thank you. And another one just came on there. Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111143518	I am not in the habit of congratulating the Socialist Finance Minister. However, we have a common past in the municipality of Aarhus, and it is actually one of those who has run multiannual budgets, which exactly provides some opportunities for action for the individual institutions: if they have a little profit once, they can pull it over so that they can make bigger investments. And I would like to pay tribute to the fact that this has been done. So the municipalities have the opportunity to make multiannual budgets. There are just a lot of municipalities that have chosen to make annual budgets. So it is just a clarification in relation to the fact that the municipalities actually have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111143550	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111143551	In my job as Finance Minister, you are grateful for any praise you receive, and that also applies to the one I received from Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111143601	Then no one else has signed up for short remarks so there are no more roses in this round. But thank you to the Minister for Finance. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, and the first is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111143629	As the Minister for Finance has just explained, the proposers want to actually suspend the service and construction ceiling for municipalities and regions and the state in all areas. And as the Minister for Finance also explained, it has already been agreed to evaluate the budget law at a later stage. In this context, the criticisms which are also contained in the motion for a resolution and which have just been expressed by the SF can be included in the discussion we are going to have with each other in this context. In relation to the arguments put forward by the proposers, I think it is important to bear in mind that expenditure management of municipalities and regions is based on framework management. This means that an annual cost framework is agreed for services in the municipalities under one and operating in the regions under one. In other words, the Budget Act is a legislative obligation for the municipalities, under one and the regions, to adhere to the financial framework for which they agree and within the level of public expenditure decided by the Folketing. It is therefore essentially a distribution of the right to dispose of the room for manoeuvre between the state, the municipalities and the regions. It is therefore possible in a municipality or region to spend more money on service costs than budgeted if other municipalities or regions spend less and thus save up. The vast majority of municipalities also allow their institutions to make transfers of funds from one year to another. In conclusion, I think it is worth pointing out that the spending framework for the local and regional economies has increased quite considerably under the current majority. And I would also like to sign for that in relation to the Enhedslisten, which has helped to make the agreements that have made it possible. I also think it is relevant in this debate to say that the fact that last year we saw a decrease in spending on the municipal spending framework cannot be seen separated from the extraordinary Corona situation, such as the Gulf crisis. This meant that, on health grounds and in order to limit the spread of infection, municipal welfare provision did not operate on normal capacity. We will have ample opportunity at a later stage to discuss budgetary law, expenditure management and flexibility further on the basis of the professional analyses when discussing the evaluation of the budget law. I'll look forward to it. However, I would like to make it clear here that the suspension of the expenditure ceilings is not compatible with responsible management of the public economy in the eyes of the Social Democrats. Against this background, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution. I also believe that reference can be made here to what the Minister of Finance did a few minutes ago, that when we had a different management of the public economy, the result was relatively poor. There we were significantly worse at managing the public economy, which in the end can hardly be a success or a positive one for anyone. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111143919	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111143924	I would really like the Socialist rapporteur to give an assessment of whether it is appropriate for there to be 58 billion. kr. in the municipalities, which are not used for welfare. I actually thought that the Social Democrats were in favour of welfare and were in favour of money being spent on welfare. However, we have seen that it is a constantly increasing amount that lies in the municipalities' coffers because they have an underconsumption. This has nothing to do with corona. It is something that has been worked up for many years. What is the real explanation for this? Is it because the Social Democratic mayors and city council members are so useless that they cannot strike the right balance? Or is it a political choice to let the bag of money in the municipal treasury grow rather than spend the money for welfare? It is not a demand for welfare that is lacking out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111144027	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111144028	As I remember the figures for this development that we have seen over recent years, they show that the municipalities have become better and better at steering according to the ceilings and have thus come closer and closer to it, so the problem has been significantly reduced. I think that is a good thing. And no matter where you put the ceiling, there's gonna be a ceiling. If we are to control public expenditure, there will be a ceiling, and wherever you put it, it will have to be managed. However, I welcome the fact that the municipalities have become more efficient in budgeting, because this has also reduced the problem of under-utilisation. Then it is also important to be aware of the fact, and I actually think Mr. Søren Søndergaard knows that the rhetoric that you sometimes hear from mayors is that they have a lot of money lying around, but that they just cannot be allowed to use it, is to give a wrong account of what reality is like. Because what is real is that if the municipalities spend the money that they have left, they leave the room for manoeuvre as a whole. In other words, if the municipalities spend the money that we are talking about, savings will have to be made in other areas in the state or regional area because, regardless of how and how things are technically arranged, there is the money that is within the room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111144133	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111144134	Now there is nothing in the figures that indicates that there is a positive development along the way. It swings a little up and down. When we look at the lower consumption in the municipal service framework, it is a percentage of 2.7, 1.7, 3.2, 0.9, 0.1, 1.0, 2.9. It's so up and down. That's what all together makes there's that giant box of money that can't be used. After all, that was confirmed by the Minister for Finance just now. There are 1-year budget frameworks. But I must understand that the Socialist rapporteur disagrees with the Socialist mayors who have pointed to this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111144217	Then I think we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111144218	Together with Enhedslisten, we have made finance laws and agreements with the municipalities, which means that the Social Democratic mayor, in line with the bourgeois mayors, has got a better economy. We are proud to have been able to deliver that. I think that if you take out the corona year and it's again after memory... the trend for the problem of less consumption is down, and that's positive. My point is simply that, regardless of how to organize it, if you want ceilings, and I think that is appropriate for managing the public economy, the ceiling will be somewhere, and then it is up to the municipalities to make a budgeting and have budgetary discipline that will make them hit those ceilings.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111144254	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111144255	We were just discussing a proposal that more funds should be made available to the municipalities for basic welfare. Would it not be an idea, rather than adding more money to the municipal agreements, to demand that the municipalities start using this growing box that they have? I mean, it's really rising. Well, it's 130 percent, so there's quite a lot of money, 58 billion. kr., out there. Wouldn't it be better if they started spending some of that money or sent it back to their citizens via tax credits that, before they get more money in here from the state through the municipal agreements, they start spending some of the money that they have lying out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111144336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111144336-2	It is technically minor; whether the money is in one place or another in the public purses, it is part of the same room for manoeuvre. So how to do it in budgetary terms is minor. What is crucial is how we prioritise the room for manoeuvre overall, not where the money lies. That is how it is when you make public budgets, and that is how we have overall budgeting in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111144356	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111144357	Ah, and yet, because there is probably a pretty big difference between whether the municipalities can take the money and choose to use it for tax relief or the state can choose to use it for tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111144407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111144408	No, that is, the room for manoeuvre is defined by the total room for manoeuvre across the municipality, state and regions, so the difference is not there. That is the way it is when you make budgeting in the public sector, and although the rapporteur sits and shakes his head, I think the rapporteur must go home to read it out a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111144426	We thank the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111144432	Thank you. I think it was in the spring of 2011 that Claus Hjort Frederiksen, then Minister of Finance, first presented proposals for a budget law and called the parties of the Folketing for negotiations. It was not possible to get an agreement in place before parliamentary elections were held. I remember that the Social Democrats were not super enthusiastic about the budget law when it was presented there in the spring of 2011, but the greater the joy was then when the then Finance Minister Bjarne Corydon introduced the Budget Act in 2012. And it is rare that I can agree with what the Minister of Finance is saying here from the parliamentary platform, but in this situation I have to say that I was very much in agreement with the Minister for Finance's review. It is important that there is a budget law which ensures that the public economy is in balance and that it is managed, and this has, of course, been a difficult situation in the past. I think that under the Nyrup governments it was so that every time it was agreed to spend 1 DKK. In public consumption growth, 3 DKK were spent, and not just criticizing the former Social Democratic government, I actually think I have to admit that under Anders Fogh Rasmussen's governments 11⁄2 DKK were spent every time it was agreed to spend 1 DKK. Of course, this situation was untenable, given that the financial policy adopted in connection with the annual financial laws must of course also be the one implemented, and the budget law has basically helped to ensure this. So no matter how much respect I have for municipal autonomy, we cannot run 98 different fiscal policies at the same time. There must be one overall fiscal policy for the Danish economy, and that is among other things. what the budget law should help to secure. I shall not say much more than that I share the pleasure and look forward to an evaluation. There are many elements that can easily be discussed and looked into and turned and turned, but the short of the long one is that the Left cannot support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111144702	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111144704	I fully agree, of course, that there is a history in what is said here that before the European Union decided that we should have the financial pact, and we then voluntarily decided to join it through the budget law, there were various tools from various Left Ministers. I remember, for example. which was called Thor's hammer, and played from Claus Hjort Frederiksen. It is true, and it is also true, that the Social Democratic Party was also against it at the time. But the question is whether the right tool has been found. I am just surprised that there is the contradiction between what the Left says in the Folketing and what the Left says out in, for example. municipalities and regions. In other words, another quote from Stephanie Lose: If we are to develop the welfare that we are all so proud of and ensure the continued confidence of citizens in the core services of the welfare society, it is absolutely necessary to loosen some of the tight ties that the budget law is laying down on them today. ▪ Does the rapporteur of the Left agree with that, or does the rapporteur of the Left not agree with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111144807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111144808	I basically agree that the budget law is sensible, and I also said at the end of my rapporteur's speech that I think it is good that there should be an evaluation so that we can see whether there are any shortcomings that can be looked at. Without having to go into a long technical discussion, you could see if there are some places where you can let the money run into the next budget year and other things. And let's finally take a look at it. After all, none of us want to have rules that are too rigid. However, we have the principle that the financial impact adopted by a budget law is also the one that must become reality, and that is one of the things that the budget law helps to ensure. But, of course, we always engage without prejudice in an evaluation, but our basic idea is that we support the budget law. We had proposed it ourselves. But let us take that discussion when we come to the evaluation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111144906	Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111144907	But it is interesting to hear that the rapporteur of the Left does not answer the question, but says: if there is anyone. Does the rapporteur of the Left believe that there are any shortcomings? After all, no one here believes that the municipalities should simply spend all the money they want and that banknote presses should be established around the local mayor's offices so that they can simply print banknotes. Nobody is suggesting that. However, the question is whether the budget law with one-year budgets is not in a position to transfer 0.5%, i.e. whether the whole regulation is right. That is what we are discussing. And I just ask: what is the position of the Left not if, but what is the position of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111144945	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111144946	The position of the Left is that we basically support the budget law. However, this is not the same as keeping your eyes open and saying that there can be no corners that can deserve to be looked for, and we are happy to do so in the evaluation. But basically we support the budget law. Does that mean it's one hundred percent right in the closet? No. I'm not that fundamentalist.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111145008	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111145008-2	But that is precisely what we are discussing today, in other words whether we need to reform the budget law. We can discuss that easily, but I think the rapporteur is getting away with it quite easily by saying: yes, there are perhaps some things that can be improved, perhaps we can look at that at some point and so on. etc. Perhaps it could be said that unspent people could be transferred to next year. Is that something the Left wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111145035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111145036	The motion for a resolution we are discussing is that the Folketing should impose a permanent suspension of the budget, service and construction law for municipalities, regions and the state, and I would just like to say that we are not in favour of it. Then there will be an evaluation, and I think it would be a strange approach if we said that our starting point is that nothing can be done better. I would like to look at it, and I hear these things too, but I believe that the basic purpose of the budget law is extremely important and I support that. Does this mean that nothing can be done better? No, it does not, but let us have that discussion when the evaluation is available. I think that is quite accommodating.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111145114	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111145115	So the Left does not have a position, you are waiting for an evaluation, and otherwise you do not have a position? That's how I'm supposed to understand it? I don't believe that. The SF does not come up and I will go into that when it becomes my turn to support the resolution in the form it has, but I think it is an excellent opportunity to discuss the budget law. The evaluation of it has been under way for a long time, so can we not lure an answer out of the Left today as to whether we have an independent position on how to improve the budget law?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111145150	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111145151	Our starting point is that the budget law is quite reasonable. And I say that we have been watching for it ourselves, even when we have been in the Ministry of Finance, so there is no reason to wonder about that. Of course, when you launch an evaluation, it is also to see if there is anything that can be finened and done better. But we support the budget law. If we were not prepared to discuss whether there are corners that can be discussed, we should never have done an evaluation. That would be a strange approach to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111145217	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we are now moving on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111145234	Thank you for that, President. Yes, we are here with motion for a resolution No. B 4 that we should permanently suspend the budget law. Generally speaking, if you make an agreement, you also have to comply with it, otherwise we do not have an agreement system in Denmark. That seems to us to be important. I think it is a good system that we have in Denmark, where the Minister for Finance has a strong mandate from the Danish Parliament to negotiate with municipalities and regions, and municipalities and regions come in with a strong mandate from the regions and municipalities, and then an agreement can be reached. We must then say that, unfortunately, we saw at some point that those agreements were not actually observed so well. It turned out that there were very large overruns in relation to the budgets that had been laid down. We think the budget law was very square when it was made, and we still think it was a little bit. We clearly believe that the past has told us that there is a need to have a system to be able to sanction, too, if the municipalities and regions do not comply with the agreement reached with the government in office at any time. And that's what the budget law does. I think we should also be aware of this and it is not to point the finger at anyone, because that has always been the case when you make finance laws and other agreements, you put 31⁄2 billion. kr. I think it is, and then you can blow up how many billions you put out to municipalities and regions, and blue governments have done that too. So it can be said that when liquidity is growing out there, it is not just welfare crowns that have not come out to welfare, because some of these are also liquidity grants, perhaps also to some municipalities that have not had such a great need to obtain a liquidity grant, so the money is then out in the municipalities' coffers. It's a cheap way to make policy for the government, because it doesn't cost anything. About the 31⁄2 billion. kr. is in the treasury, or if they are in the municipal treasury, doesn't matter, but then you can inflate your budgets in relation to talking to the outside world. So it would, of course, be a challenge if we suddenly let go of over 50 billion. kr. Loose out there special now. This will create huge bottlenecks and major challenges for the private sector. Somewhere I actually think that the motion for a resolution is really going to get into something, in other words how we manage the municipalities. A municipality may have decided to build a school, perhaps at 250 million. kr. So in relation to the proposal as it stands, I would say that I do not think it should be suspended permanently. Now you have to be careful, because there are 98 municipalities and how is that dialogue possible? If a municipality is engaged in a large welfare building, it could be a school, an elderly home or something else, then it can move, and shouldn't one have some opportunities to push it in a way without affecting one's construction budget, for example until the following year? This could be the case for a municipality that then pushes it forward to the following year, but then there may be another municipality that cannot do anything but which may have the same need to build or operate something else. So I really think that the motion for a resolution goes into a debate which is right, but to suspend it completely I do not think it is a good idea either. In fact, if you ask KL in a closed room, I do not think that is the wish they have, if I am to be quite honest, that the economy will just be completely free and that you cannot somehow comply with the agreements that you have made with a government, because there will be some municipalities that will just say that they are now free, they are now riding free, and then you are actually destroying the community as there is. We have a good way of agreeing on the economy of the municipalities. Then one can politically disagree with the priorities, I fully agree with that, but the system and the framework that we are doing in it are actually very happy with.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111145628	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111145629	I would like to say two things to the Danish People's Party. First of all, on technical matters, in relation to abolishing the budget law, I would like to say that this is the budget law. After all, there is no ban on any budget law. It is this budget law that exists that needs to be abolished and, of course, a framework must be created. That is why it is a resolution and not a legislative proposal. And we need to create a framework that is much more flexible with the municipalities. So if that is the concern, then I do not think there is much disagreement there. But in relation to the way it works, does the Danish People's Party not agree that it allows rich municipalities to reduce the tax and that it really means that it becomes more difficult for the disadvantaged municipalities to act in that reality, i.e. when rich municipalities use the profits they have to reduce the tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111145720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111145721	Yeah, and it's not just in the field of taxation. It may also be in relation to what the service level is. It is important to get first, if you have quickly used yours, what to say, ceiling in a municipality. Perhaps some are even above the ceiling. Then they steal a little from the others, if they just hurry in and use some of the room there is, you might say. It's not new money. Well, you get a bag of money like that if you just hurry to use some of it because you have room for it. Then you see the exercise that comes to the end in relation to the accounts, in relation to how you just get these budgets done and mingelized them, so it's going to fit. It is such a rather strange competition, and those who then have money can actually push themselves in front of the queue and get something more welfare. That is why we did not actually vote in favour, but we are not against having anything. This is really more about a sanctioning tool than it is about a ceiling, because it can be said that the ceiling is also moving. If you then conduct a financial bill debate afterwards, where you can negotiate some more money, then the ceiling will also be higher. If you put 1 billion. kr. The ceiling also rises by 1 billion more into a financial bill debate. kr. So I agree with the proposer that there is some flexibility that we do not really have, and you can get a little ahead of the queue if you just have enough muscles.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111145823	We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111145835	Thanks to Enhedslisten for focusing on the budget law. The Enhedslisten's proposal is to remove the Budgetary Act's service and construction ceiling permanently. After all, no fixed ceiling has been laid down in the budget law, as it is something that is laid down in the annual economic agreements, but there is a ceiling on expenditure which corresponds roughly to the service framework, which is also laid down in the annual economic agreements. The Enhedslisten is quite right that there is a major problem in the fact that the municipalities do not make full use of their service framework, and we on the part of the SF agree that it is the violent threats of sanctions that are causing it and which scare the municipalities to spend less money than they are allowed to. I also said in a brief comment earlier in this debate that it is in the region of 1.5 billion. kr. In other words, it is at least 3 000 educators or other welfare workers every year. So it is in this way a considerable part of our welfare that does not come out to the citizens. It is money that is set out for it, money that is politically determined to go out to the citizens. For this reason, the SF also has a motion for a resolution that the Minister of Finance should not impose sanctions in the case of minor budget overruns. The sanctions are, of course, not something that has been introduced by the budget law, nor are they apparent from the legislative text. It was left-wing governments that imposed sanctions in 2008 and tightened them up in 2010. We also agree with Enhedslisten that the 1-year perspective in the Budget Act limits the possibility of making responsible and good decisions in the municipalities. In fact, we think that what we have today with the one-year framework leads to irresponsible economic decisions. We are also waiting for the government to play out what they will do to live up to the promise in the understanding paper on how to introduce multiannual budgets. It was a little difficult to get wise of the rapporteur from the Left, but I heard that there might be a slight opening up to the possibility of looking at multiannual budgets, at least if the evaluation could also add up to that. After all, it is a pity that the revision of the budget law has been postponed on many occasions, because it is clear that the law has not been drafted optimally today. The same applies, as I said, to the formulation of the rules on sanctions, which are therefore not part of the budget law. I can also regret the fact that Enhedslisten is not part of the conciliation on the budget law, so that we can fight for and make a budget law together that we agree on. I also listened to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, that this is not necessarily about having a budget law or not having a budget law, but is about how to introduce it. I often think that we left-wing parties are being shot in the shoes by the right, that we are financially irresponsible, that we should not keep budgets and that everything is sailing. I think that is simply an unfair criticism. Of course, you have to abide by the agreements you make. This should not be about whether you can spend a lot or a lot of money in the municipalities, for example, but about keeping the agreements you make. However, the way it is put together today makes it impossible to comply with the agreements we are making, because the sanctions are so severe that we cannot live up to what has been promised, for example on the part of the municipalities. I don't think it was sir. Søren Søndergaard, who said so through all the layers of a municipality micro-detailed control so much that you hit precisely. It's pretty hard. I would like to say on behalf of the SF that we do not think it is the right way to go about abolishing the rules on expenditure ceilings for municipalities, regions and the state permanently. SF is in favour of more money for welfare, education, climate investment and much more, but we believe that expenditure should be financed from corresponding revenue with the possibility of a certain deficit, for example. during a recession; that is to say, that part is written in. Removing the expenditure ceilings without replacing anything else can quickly lead to large public deficits with the problems that it will create for the future welfare and Danish economy. So, with the present form of the motion for a resolution, the SF cannot support the Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111150306	Thank you. At the very last moment, a request for a brief comment was made. Sir. Søren Søndergaard. I'm gonna let mercy go for it, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111150318	Thank you. I understand that the SF is also opposed to the way the Budget Act works. What I just want to ask is: if we get a majority, for example. With SF and Enhedslisten, after the next election, can we change the budget law? So, can we abolish the budgetary law that exists and create a new budget law which means that there is more flexibility, that we follow the advice of the wise men, that we follow the advice that comes from a large number of experts in the field in order to make it more flexible? Will that be possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111150357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111150358	Oh, yeah. So, of course, it is with a lot of reservations, but from what we hear today, I think it sounds like that SF and Enhedslisten agree on very long stretches, in terms of flexibility; there must be room to exceed when there are crises; there must be possibility of multiannuality, etc. That is what I am taking with us is that we agree that a completely different type of budget law should contain.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111150430	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111150431	Well, when I ask, it's just to clarify whether this law can be changed without for example. Left and Conservatives give their support to it. So, it is based on a settlement, and I know it was so that one of the reasons why Merkel thought that what was being done in Denmark was actually good was that it was almost constitutional in nature, which means that it could hardly be changed as long as one of the parties involved in concluding it had as much as one mandate in the Folketing. But do I understand correctly that this can be changed without the Left and the Conservatives being involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111150508	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111150509	On that, what can we say, that Parliament can technically be done, I cannot say. But we are so concerned by the SF that it will change that if there is a settlement to terminate, we will gladly do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111150521	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that means that we can move on to the radical rapporteur, Mr President. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111150531	Thank you. Basically, it makes sense for us in Denmark to know how much money we spend every year on all types of expenditure in society. And what is the logic behind the budget law and the plant ceilings is that you define how much money is to be spent, so you know it in advance. And that applies, of course, regardless of whether or not 100 billion is to be spent. kr. or 1,000 billion. kr. There have been a long series of years in which it could be seen that more money was spent than had been agreed. It is of course a problem because, as you know, money can only be used once, and if it is spent on one, it cannot be spent on the other. Then you can't use them on, for example. climate or anything else under state spending if they have been used elsewhere in the welfare society. That is why we support the agreement and the conciliation that we are part of in which we ensure that the budgets are managed. That is why we cannot support the resolution here, and there is nothing surprising about that either. And there may be advantages and disadvantages, as the Minister of Finance also mentioned. I have heard the most of the benefits, but it is also because I have mainly talked to people in municipalities and regions who want it, so that they can plan a little longer than over a year, for example. on the site of the installation. Or you could say that an expense can run over 1 January. There may be some advantages in that. What may, of course, be a disadvantage is whether you manage the consumption of each year. After all, this must be managed, or at least be flexible, in financial planning. But basically we support the mechanism of jointly defining how much money you spend on welfare and ensuring that the budgets are respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111150741	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we can now move on to Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111150757	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the Enhedslisten for the motion for a resolution. It is a proposal which, in our view, hits economically all the way past the dial, and we therefore cannot in any way agree with the proposal. Therefore, on behalf of our financial rapporteur, who is unfortunately prevented from being here, I would just like to give some of the most obvious reasons for this. Firstly, before we were given the budget law, the municipalities almost consistently exceeded their budgets, particularly in relation to service expenditure. And with the budget law and associated sanctions in the event of non-compliance, we have had much better budgetary discipline and, after a period of adjustment, the municipalities are now also very close to the budgets. Secondly, we fear that if the budget law is suspended, the motivation to pursue a responsible and moderate economic policy will be removed. It is, of course, important that we have the opportunity to stimulate the economy, but it is also important that we stick to the need for coherence between expenditure and revenue; the budget law has helped to do so. Thirdly, we are fully committed to stimulating the economy during the Corona crisis, as is also mentioned in the proposal, but we do not have much faith in the fact that freer frameworks for the use of citizens' tax dollars are the way forward. So, overall, we are pleased with the budget law. It has served us well over the years, and it must, of course, remain there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111150913	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And that means that we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111150921	Thank you. Several parties have explained why they think the budget law is good, and it may also be in some areas, but I am not a huge fan of flexibility in it either. Basically, it is also about the fact that if you, as Enhedslisten, want to set the municipalities free, then we in New Citizens believe that responsibility must also follow. If you want to go down that road, the state should not then come running and clean up after the municipalities; then the municipal politicians elected by the citizens must be responsible for that economy. And if there's a deroute in that economy in the municipality, then it's the politicians who have to answer to clean up. It is often that I hear this about the municipalities being allowed to consume loose out there, and if things go wrong and they don't comply with the budgets that are, then Mother State comes straight and cleans up after them. And that's a road we don't want to go down. But we would like to see greater freedom for the municipalities. In fact, we would like to see greater freedom all the way out to the individual schools and institutions instead, because we often find that when they get the money, the municipalities use them, as we saw in the last period from 2015 to 2019, where in this Parliament they actually paid 2.5 billion. kr. more to the municipalities. The municipalities chose to spend 435 million. kr. of the money for increased central administration and management, and that is not basic core welfare; it is for djøfs, marketers and such people who sit in the municipality, and we in New Citizens do not think this is good core welfare. So how do you make sure the money gets all the way out there? This is done by the money following the citizen. It offers the greatest possible freedom of choice to citizens, and it gives them the money completely out at the individual school. In fact, I think there are a lot of school leaders out there who actually want to do a really, really good school, but feel bound by such bureaucratic things from within the municipality. I also believe that there are nursing home managers who can actually make much better nursing homes than what they are allowed to do right now. So if it's about giving more freedom to make good public core welfare, then we're totally in on it in New Citizens. But if it's just about giving up on the fact that the municipalities can spend money and the state has to come and clean up afterwards, then we're not in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111151123	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And that means that we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111151134	Thank you for the floor. Cut off the budget law, set the municipalities free. Free Greens support the proposal and would like to sign up for a fantastic proposal. We want to set the municipalities and the state institutions free so that they can get back to the social, cultural, political and organizational thinking that at the time gave birth to them back to the local community, back to the citizen, more self-determination and more self-organisation. That is why we need a freer framework for economic planning in the municipalities, the regions and the state. Many money is not being spent today because one is afraid to be sanctioned if one exceeds the budget, because it can cost dearly. The Budget Act thus cheats citizens for welfare. The money that has not been spent in the current year cannot be spent in the next year. It is not for the benefit of anyone, it is for the benefit of the old people, our older citizens, our young people; it is for the benefit of no one at all. That is why the Greens are totally in favour of the proposal. We believe that this is the right direction to take so that we can have as much self-determination and self-organisation as possible when we set the municipalities free. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111151300	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are now in favour of the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111151316	Thank you, President. Anyone who will at least see that our public welfare system, after many years of undermining, needs improvements, and that is why we find it a little absurd in the Enhedslisten that we in Denmark have a law that means that regions and municipalities cannot even use their own money for the well-being of citizens. That is what we have, and it is the EU-inspired budget law with its rigid governance and sanctions. After all, it is precisely the rigid controls and penalties that are causing the problem. If you are told that there are some land mines over here, you may not be going quite there, but you will of course stay away from them, and that is what is happening here. When municipalities and regions are told that, if you break that limit, firewood falls not only to you, but also to all the other municipalities and regions, you stay far away from it, and to be sure that it can be done, you let that message go down through the system, and the result will of course be an underuse. In a reply from 23 September, the Minister of Finance documents how the budget law in 2020 led to an underspend in the municipal service framework of nearly 3 billion. kr. kr. Since 2014, the level of under-utilisation has been more than 12,5 billion. We are not even going back to the time when this kind of sanctions began to be introduced, but we are only bringing it with us as it is under the current budget law. In the area of health in the regions, under-consumption has been 3.5 billion. kr. kr., which could have been used for welfare. It is not extra spending, but it is the municipalities' own money that lies in the municipalities' own funds, but that they cannot use for fear of hitting the ceiling and then being subjected to the quadruple penalties imposed by the budget law. At present there are 58 billion. kr. in the municipal coffers, and a projection from the Ministry of the Interior shows that, if that development continues, there will be 83 billion. kr. in 2030 and 113 billion; kr. in 2040 money which cannot be used for welfare, solely because of the budgetary law's straitjacket. To be honest, I think it is a provocation to those nurses and other health professionals who are working a certain part of their body out of their pants and who can see on a daily basis that more and more colleagues are missing, but I also think it is a provocation to all those citizens who are experiencing great shortcomings in the welfare that they are happy to pay their taxes to ensure. That is the reason why Enhedslisten is putting forward this proposal for a suspension of the budget law, thereby giving municipalities and regions the right to use their own tax revenues for the benefit of their own citizens. It is not a suggestion that you should be able to spend much more money or some more money than you have, but it is just a suggestion that you should be allowed to spend the money you have. If we look into society, we are not alone in that attitude. The Chairman of the Danish Regions, Stephanie Lose from the Left, whom I mentioned earlier, said on 13 February 2020 to Altinget: We are seeing very closely how the budget law has major implications for the well-being of citizens' daily lives, for employees and for employers. Mogens Lykketoft, former Minister of Finance and Social Democrat, probably with no particular sense of it, but yet, can be quoted from Information on 25 November 2019: "There is no reason not only to change the Budget Act now." Lizette Risgaard, chairman of the Fagsmens Hovedorganisation, FH, said on his own blog on January 6, 2021 under the heading of "Budgetlov cheats citizens for welfare:" The last many years the municipalities have not provided the welfare they can afford due to. The Budget Act. And Torkild Olesen, chairman of Danske Handicaporganisations, said on 17 August 2021: "It is unbelievable that you have large cash boxes around, and the municipalities are still struggling to make ends stick together. So we have not been lucky with that budget law. What one might hope was that the attitude that exists among people, that one should be allowed to spend one's own money, also came through here in the Folketing. And what have the parties said? I would say that some people have had a very difficult time dealing with what they actually thought about the problems that everyone who is in the municipal and regional system can see otherwise, but otherwise the argument has been: there is a review going on there and we are taking it up there. Let's just remember what's the starting point. The starting point is that the 2014 Act stated that there should be a review in 2018. That's what the law said. However, there was no audit in 2018, there was no audit in 2019, there was no audit in 2020, nor will there be any audit in 2021. When are we going to have that review? I think that is a relevant question to ask, and that is why we have tabled this proposal. That is in order, at least, to force an answer to: When will we get the review that was actually promised in 2018, when this legislation was adopted? In addition, I think that what has struck a number of speeches is that, of course, on the one hand they say that there may be some problems, but, on the other hand, the municipalities should not spend more money than they have and that we should not have large overbudgets and so on. etc. and the last part I fully agree with. However, there have been a number of concrete proposals to promote how this could be achieved. There have been from the wise men, there have been from others. I think that we should go in concrete terms and deal with those proposals, and we shall have to do so in committee. One of the problems, then, is the extent to which this budget law can be amended at all, and this is, of course, linked to the construction that has been made, namely a political agreement in which all parties must agree to change it, but it is also one of the things that we may be able to get searched for during the committee procedure. Finally, my view is that the vast majority of the Danish population would like to pay taxes to ensure the welfare society. We once had a minimal Prime Minister and he had to give it up in order to become Prime Minister, and of course there are also some who are running such a huge campaign against paying taxes. People would like to pay taxes to ensure the welfare society, so that expectant mothers can feed under safe conditions and without too busy midwives, so that they can deliver their children into crèches and kindergarten, who have enough staff to be more than storage facilities, but who can also develop the young physically and socially, so that we can have an education system that can ensure everyone a possible learning, personal development and contribute to society, so that we can ensure our elderly a dignified old age in nursing homes, in elderly homes, but also in their own homes, without it developing into a clean main railway station with a crowd of different home helpers, and then to take care of us all when we need treatment at some point in our lives, perhaps even end up in a hospital. The Danish people are happy to pay for this community. But the budget law represents the opposite, that is, that part of the money we pay for the common welfare is not used for welfare, but that instead they collect dust and cannot be used at a later stage. And that is why our proposal is that the budget law currently in force should be suspended. That is why I would like to call on the parties to come to the second reading, for example. in what remains of the forthcoming election campaign, to discuss the matter with the electorate, to listen to what their municipal and regional hinterland says, and if that happens, I am actually quite confident that the budget law will soon be in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111152256	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111152259	I just remembered that the Enhedslisten is, after all, a parliamentary basis for this government. This was also done under the Thorning Government. That is to say, six years out of the last 10 to 11 years have served as a parliamentary basis. Why hasn't it been a central demand to change this and undo this? After all, Parliament has had the power to do so. Now you sit and negotiate finance law right at the moment. Why is there not a central demand for more money to be made available to the municipalities? One way to do that is that the municipalities run up to the ceiling. You can also raise the ceiling, because then they can spend more money. Well, Enhedslisten can make that a requirement for these financial laws negotiations. Then there will be more money that you can work with in the municipalities if you raise the ceiling. That's one way to do it. Why has Enhedslisten not put it as a central requirement to sign this Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111152350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111152351	So, the parliamentary power is to be able to bring together 90 seats in this Chamber. I know there's some people who think that... Lars Boje Mathiesen is not the only one to be threatened in any situation. We will overthrow the government; if we do not get it, we will overthrow the government; if we do not get it, we will overthrow the government. I wish Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen really enjoy yourself if the time is • what I hope may not once come. The point is that we have raised this over and over again, but there is not a majority in favour of it. However, we believe that discussion is a way of creating a majority, because arguments have a certain impact. We can only note that if we look around in the municipal landscape and in the regional landscape, there are more and more people who support the need for something to happen in this area. So that's our method. It is not the policy of threatening every time there is something you cannot get through.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111152450	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111152451	Now we can go down the memory lane of history. Well, Enhedslisten has a long history of threatening to overthrow the government, like Radical Left. It's not gonna happen. This time, too, there has been a threat of falling on both the climate and, if you did not get anything, on benefits. There, too, there has been a threat of overthrowing the government. That's fair enough. Then you can choose when you want to take your threat seriously, or you can just keep threatening. The Enhedslisten must be messing with that. But when there is the fact that Enhedslisten doesn't think that enough money is being spent in the municipalities, then you shouldn't make a Finance Act where you choose to spend the money on Danmarks Radio, so give more money to Danmarks Radio, instead of giving more money to basic core welfare. It's a choice and a decision that Enhedslisten has made.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111152533	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111152535	I'm just wondering if sir... Lars Boje Mathisen has understood anything of what we have discussed today. Well, the starting point is that the starting point is not that we want more money in the municipalities. The starting point is, of course, that there are billions in the municipalities that we cannot use because we have chosen to copy bad EU legislation. That is the fact. And we're just saying that let the municipalities spend the money that's scratched in with the purpose of creating welfare... let them use it for welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111152610	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Finance and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111152625	This is a resolution which has emerged from a citizens' proposal. The debate is open. First, it's the Attorney General. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111152704	Hatred crimes and hate speech are a very serious matter, and in Danish society there must be room to be who you are. You must be able to travel safely everywhere in Denmark, and there must be equal access to security for everyone in Denmark. That is why I am pleased that the resolution and the motion for a resolution are focusing on hate speech and hate crimes. The crucial thing for the government is that criminal justice in this area is strong and effective. That is certainly one of the essential elements. It can be said that implementation is of course also crucial, but in this context it is the regulation that we are looking at. The government supports the purpose of the resolution and broadly agrees with the proposals put on the table, but we cannot support all parts of the resolution as it stands, and I shall come back to that. The motion for a resolution sets out to amend the penal code on hate crimes and hate speech. This applies, firstly, to section 81 no. of the Criminal Code. 6. The provision states that, in the context of the court's sentence, it must generally be an aggravating circumstance if a crime is based on the sexual orientation, ethnic origin or other things of others. Secondly, this applies to the so-called racism clause contained in section 266 b of the Criminal Code. As the authors themselves note, the amendments proposed in paragraphs 2 and 3 of the motion for a resolution are already implemented or under discussion in the Folketing. Earlier this year, the Folketing decided that it should generally be an aggravating circumstance if a deed is committed against the background of the disability of others so that there was a fly bone in one of the proposals. In October, the Minister for Gender Equality tabled a bill which included, among other things: is proposed that disability be written into the racism clause, as well as gender identity, gender expressions and gender characteristics are directly written into both the racism clause and the penal code §81 no. 6 on hate crimes. So in this way one can say that there were three more flybones compared to what is at the heart of the underlying citizen's proposal. It goes without saying that these proposals are entirely in agreement with the government. So let me turn to paragraph 1 of the motion for a resolution. After the proposed amendment in paragraph 1, it must be made clear that this is a hate crime, regardless of whether the act is wholly or partly motivated by hatred. As I have explained in my reply to Question 2 of the Committee on Legal Affairs to the motion for a resolution, it follows from the preparatory work of Paragraph 81 No. 6, that the provision refers to cases in which an act is committed in whole or in part on the basis of the facts set out in that provision, e.g.: sexual orientation. So it is already the case today that the punishment in general must be tightened up and that it is a hate crime if the deed is partly or totally motivated by, for example, the death penalty. sexual orientation of others. So it can be said that, in an interpretation situation, the Courts would probably arrive at what is proposed on this point in the motion for a resolution with such general application of the law. But that does not change the fact that this is an important signal to send: that we do not tolerate any kind of hate crime. And one way to stress it is, of course, to lift it directly into the legislative text. So the government agrees with that part of the resolution. I understand that the Committee on Legal Affairs has received a request in which the authors of the citizens' motion call for an amendment to be tabled to the motion for a resolution, so that only that part of the motion is to be put to the vote. The government can support this, and on behalf of the Enhedslisten, the SF, the Radical Left and the government I will ensure that such an amendment to the resolution is drafted. Other parties are, of course, extremely welcome to join. I understand from the talk that has been going on throughout the day that there seem to be several parties that look positively at this, which is just good. So why can we not support the whole motion for a resolution? Yes, as it stands now, it is about the proposed change in section 266b of the Criminal Code. The provision punishes hateful statements made in public or with intent to be disseminated in a wider circle. This provision shall apply where the content of the offence is objectively fulfilled. This means in particular that the opinion has a content in which a group of people is threatened, insulted or demeaned because of the group's skin colour, faith, sexual orientation, etc. The perpetrator will be punished, whether or not the motive behind it is the person's utterance of hateful utterances. If the motive of the perpetrator, as set out in the proposal, becomes part of the provision, it will send a signal to the courts that emphasis should be placed on the motive in cases of violation of Article 266b of the criminal code. And as my answer to question 2 of the motion for a resolution shows, it cannot be ruled out that such a change of law would lead to fewer convictions than today. Against this background, therefore, the government cannot support the entire resolution as it stands. However, as has been said, the government supports the clarification that a hate crime is a hate crime, regardless of whether it is only partly motivated by hatred. That is why we can support this resolution when it is amended, as I indicated earlier, simply because hate crimes do not belong in Danish society. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111153323	I should like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111153326	First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to our Minister. Free Greens have been preoccupied with this, and I have been personally concerned with hate crimes and racism for nearly two years. I have called the Minister in consultation and asked written questions. So I am incredibly pleased that the Minister has now come to the conclusion that something really needs to be done about the legislation. But we must also acknowledge that this is the first small step to combat hatred and racism. We know this is going on in the labour market. We know it's part of the police. We know it's happening everywhere in our society. That is why, in the Free Greens, we went to the Finance Law talks with the Finance Minister and said that we have an absolute requirement, namely that we want a comprehensive anti-racist action plan. Will the Minister deliver on it so that we can combat racism elsewhere in society?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111153429	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111153431	There are just a few arrests in relation to the presentation, for the fact that we now had a broad majority in the Danish Parliament who decided in the spring that disability should be covered by §81, no. 6. There is currently a draft law under consideration as regards gender identity, both with regard to section 81, no. 6, and also § 266b. In fact, the police agreement also contains elements aimed at countering hate crimes. That is, for example, the case. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. So the fact that this is something we have arrived at now does not seem to me to be in line with reality. In fact, I think it is a subject that is constantly being worked on. If it has been raised as a demand in the financial law negotiations, I suppose I shall not have to negotiate that demand here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111153532	Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111153533	We can always discuss the wordings, whether it is too strict to say it or not, but bottomline is just that the Ministry of Justice's own victim study shows that there are between 4,300 and 5,800 people who believe that they have been subjected to racist-motivated assaults, and we often have the discussion about race profiling in the Danish police. There I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister considers it necessary for more action to be taken in the form of legislative proposals to enable us to combat racism in various areas and also in the Minister's own area of expertise.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111153612	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111153613	I always think it is important to consider how we respond to people being beaten, harassed, persecuted and so on. We are on the way with a plan of action to avoid anti-Semitism, in other words in relation to the Jews, which is just an element that is also moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111153641	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111153643	Thank you. We've been working in Enhedslisten for a really, really long time for this to happen. I am not asking the Minister now because I cannot hear what he is saying, but because I am actually really happy today that this finally succeeded. That is why I would just like the Minister from the Chair to confirm that now Article 81 (2) will become Article 81 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 6, changed so that it protects minorities living in Denmark, better.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111153713	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111153714	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111153722	That's how fast it can be done. Thank you. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111153726	Thank you for your speech to the Minister of Justice. One of the crimes that I have committed, and which I think has been quite awful, has been against a homosexual couple who go home from the city and are attacked. Those concerned often have the impression that their case is not being properly dealt with. And it has often been difficult to get an overview of how many of these kinds of cases there are, i.e. qualified to look at how many of these kinds of cases are here in this time we live in. I would like to hear the Minister for Justice there about the part of the citizen's proposal that is about it. Can the Minister tell us quite clearly whether it will now be the case that a note is made on the notification when it comes, for example, to the question of whether it will be possible to make a note on the notification? an assault on a gay couple because they're gay?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111153826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111153827	Some of the things that are being worked on in these years include: on the basis of the police agreement, which we and other good parties are part of, is exactly how we receive from the police a victim of a crime. When you get in, for example. have been the victim of a hate crime, how do we ensure that the police are aware of what it is like to be a victim in a case like this? After all, we have had a discussion in the past about whether to have such a special checkbox on all reviews where to cross whether it was a hate crime. I think that would be too much to make of it for the time being that you saw in the between 350,000 and 400,000 reviews we have every year, because the vast majority of people had to deal with this question, where it was clear that there was no hate crime. That is why I believe that the way to go more is the one that is also being asked, namely that the police are paying attention when they receive notifications and, if there is a potential hate crime, they also note that they can subsequently better seek when, for example, they do so. shall examine what are the characteristics here and how the number is developed, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111153939	Thank you. Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111153940	I would like to say, then, that I hear that the Minister for Justice is not giving any assurance today that this will be the case. And I have to say that I would like to have this overview, that is to say by requiring that the notifier be allowed to report a crime, including that he thinks it is an attack because, in this case, those concerned are homosexuals. The Minister does not give an undertaking to do so. Then I just want to see how we work on it. Because if we want an overview of the scale, it's important that we also get some numbers that we can use for something.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111154017	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111154018	Then I've been imprecise, because that's certainly not what I was trying to say. What I was trying to say is that when you come in and report a crime and it is a hate crime, the police will, on the one hand, be increasingly aware of it and, on the other hand, note it, where relevant, on the matter, so that we should be able to follow this area more closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111154038	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister for Justice. Then we move on to the rapporteur's round and first it is Kasper Sand Kjær, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111154056	Thank you for the floor. We must not tolerate anyone being insecure or having to live in fear of being subjected to hate crimes alone because of who they are. And there should be no doubt whatsoever that it is totally unacceptable to expose others to hate crimes and to hate speech. That is why there is a great reason today to thank the citizens' proposal and the resolution which we are now debating here in the Folketing. I think it is one of the citizen's proposals at least out of those I have seen in the time I have spent in Parliament where there is the most thoroughness and evidence in the work put into the proposal. And I think that really suits that format. This applies both to the point about hate crimes and hate speech, but also to the other two points in the proposal on disability and gender identity, which, as the Minister of Justice also explained, have already been implemented or are being transposed into law. These are all very important elements in the fight against hate crimes and hate speech. The Minister of Justice also explained the technical aspects of both section 81 of the Criminal Code no. 6, and § 266b, so I will not really spend so much time on that, but just make it clear that the Social Democrats are fundamentally behind the intention behind the proposal. We also think it is an important signal in itself to send out that in here we are making it absolutely clear in the law that we will not tolerate any kind of crime that is partly or totally motivated by hatred, but we also have no doubt that it will make a difference. And that is why we agree with the part of the proposal which concerns hate crimes, and we can warmly support that it is made clear in section 81 of the Criminal Code no. 6 that this is a hate crime, regardless of the fact that the motive may also contain something other than hatred. However, as the proposal now stands, we cannot support it in its entirety, and we cannot, perhaps not so surprisingly, for the same reasons that the Minister of Justice also explained. I also believe that if we were to run the risk of narrowing the scope of the racism clause, that is to say Article 266b of the penal code, it would be contrary to the clear intention behind the motion for a resolution. However, since we cannot support the proposal in its entirety, and especially now that it is a citizen's proposal that has come all the way in here, I am really glad that we can stand together for a solution that allows us to take it out of the citizen's proposal which deals with section 81 of the Criminal Code. 6, and in here it votes through with what appears to be a broad majority. I think that is very good, even for those who are the senders of the proposal. That is why I am looking forward to the committee's consideration of a good version of an amendment to the resolution so that we can get it voted through and, most importantly, that we can make the criminal code quite clear in this area. So with those words, I'd like to say thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111154424	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111154427	Thank you very much to the Socialist rapporteur. It is fantastic that today we can concentrate on it, that we must strengthen the text of the law in relation to hate crimes. In his speech, the Minister mentioned that it is concerned with the government, and one of them was given. an example of an action plan against anti-Semitism, and rightly so. However, we also know that all studies currently show that there is another group that is particularly exposed, namely the Muslim minorities. I would therefore like to hear whether social democracy, together with the Free Greens, will raise an anti-racist action plan, a comprehensive anti-racist action plan which will also protect our Muslim minorities. Will the Social Democratic Party help to set up such a plan in the financial law negotiations that we have started with now?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111154523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111154524	I do not think it would be right to stand here and comment on a specific proposal that is part of the financial legislation negotiations, but I can only confirm that we are committed to combating discrimination, racism, and that is why we have already implemented and are in the process of implementing some of the legislative changes that are also contained in the resolution. That is why we have an action plan against anti-Semitism on the way, and that is why, in my view, we have all been focusing in this House on how to combat discrimination and hatred.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111154556	Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111154558	When we talk about minorities in connection with sexuality and all other minorities, we just cannot avoid talking about Muslim citizens if we talk about making plans for action against hatred and racism because they are particularly vulnerable. I would like to rephrase my question and say: can we imagine that the Social Democrats will support the Free Greens' anti-racist action plan, which will also protect our Muslim minorities? Now, after all, the Minister mentions that a lot of action has been taken and is this something that the Social Democrats are also planning in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111154636	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111154638	I understand that is something that is being negotiated precisely at this time with the Minister for Finance, so I will leave that to him safely. I would just like to say that we are fundamentally concerned about this, and that is why we are now tabling an amendment to the resolution here, so that we can take another step towards combating discrimination, racism and hate crimes in this context. After all, this is something we agree on, because we should not have racism in Denmark, either against Muslims, against Jews or, to that extent, against Danes, who also experience it with just the opposite sign, just as minorities in the context of disability and sexuality should not be subjected to it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111154719	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111154721	Thank you. I'm just like sir. Kasper Sand Kjær really, really happy that this can be done. Although we in the Enhedslist had a wish that we could adopt the whole citizen's proposal, I am really glad that it is possible to adopt some of the citizens' proposal. In fact, what makes me ask a question is that something has happened that rarely happens: I was inspired by Mr. Peter Skaarup. This is because we have been working in the Enhedslisten for many years to make it possible to report a crime as just a hate crime, that is to say a check box is coming, and now Mr. Peter Skaarup, the Minister, and I would like to ask the Socialist rapporteur: how is the Social Democratic Party prepared to include it in the notification form?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111154809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111154810	First of all, I share the satisfaction that we can take the step that we are now taking with this motion for a resolution or part of it. This is not least the attention which Enhedslisten has given to the matter which, of course, also makes us make that decision today. So it's just a receipt for it. In relation to the other, we are discussing in very many contexts how it is that our public employees' working conditions are, how much paperwork and documentation we expose them to, and how much time it ends up taking from the core task, and these are some of the dilemmas we face very often, where on the one hand we want some data, some statistics and some information, and on the other we also want them not to spend too much time on paperwork and spend more time on what is the core task. So I think that is actually a balance that we should also have in that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111154904	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111154905	I am very pleased that the Social Democratic Party has noticed that we in the Enhedslist have been working on this very long and very much, so thank you for that recognition. I agree with this paperwork, and we have also made a police deal where we are just trying to get away from having to, what can be said, the detailed management of the police work, which is why it is important for me to say that what this is all about is that it is the citizen who fills this and not the police officer, and in this way you can say that you are tracking the police or the police officer to where they are going, so you put a focus on it. So, in my opinion, it's no longer paperwork for the police, but it's an acknowledgment of what the victim has been exposed to.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111154946	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111154947	But if we are to make a schedule, a documentation regime, it has to be because it is meaningful for those to whom the form is handed over and who work with it, and I just want to say that when I talk to police officers, I don't get the impression that they need more paperwork. On the contrary, they want more time to fight and solve crimes. So it's just to say that I really think we should bring that when we talk about making increased documentation requirements and demands for data and statistics in the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111155026	Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111155029	I certainly believe that the rapporteur may be right in saying that there may be policemen who, when they receive a notification, think that it may not be so important right now. But on the other hand, it can be said that the police are there for the citizens, and if there is a wish in this Parliament that we are elected by the citizens, that we get clarification and statistics in this area, so that we can get an overview of what Mrs Lund also says, then I think we should do it. Now we have heard two different, I think, assessments of this both from the Minister for Justice, who says that there is talk of it, that there are some negotiations and that we do not quite know, but that now we see, and then from the rapporteur here, who says that it is too bureaucratic, as I understand it. So just to make it quite clear: what is the attitude of the Social Democrats? Is this something we have to do, maybe do, or is it something too bureaucratic?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111155124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111155125	I'm not rejecting anything. I just remind you that we tend in here to impose a lot of documentation requirements, a lot of paperwork on public employees, and I just think we should be careful about that. Because there is a lot of information when you sit in our place, which you think it might be interesting to get, and of course we should also have, but if we continue to continue along the track that we have been running for 50 years now, when there are increased documentation requirements and increased amounts of paperwork for our public employees, then I think that the public sector will end up sanding completely in paper and very little time for the core tasks. So I'm just saying that this is the balance I think there is, whether it concerns this discussion or anything else about documentation requirements in the public sector and, in particular, in the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111155211	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111155212	Well, I fully agree that we must then get rid of as much of the unnecessary bureaucracy as possible. It must also be said that there is a development in society in some areas where there may be a need to do some more paperwork in order to realise what sort of trends are going on in our society. After all, there are children, boys being attacked on the street, being humiliated, as it is called by groups of immigrants; we would like to have an overview of this, that is, of how many cases there are of it. So I think there's a really good argument just for us to get this statistic done.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111155249	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111155250	Well, I recognise that there may well be, but that is when we think there are good reasons why the temptation is there, and that is where it is difficult. It is not difficult to say that we have to get rid of paperwork and that we have to have fewer documentation requirements. What is difficult is, of course, when you are tempted to do so, but still say that we may not have to do it or at least say that if we introduce this documentation requirement, it may be that there is something else or two that we have to pull out again. Otherwise, the consequence will be that there will be increased documentation requirements for public employees at a time when there will otherwise be many toastings about the opposite. And that would have been my answer, almost whatever documentation had been asked: that I really think we should be careful about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111155326	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Rasmussen, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111155347	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by thanking the proposers for the initiative for this citizens' proposal. It is a proposal aimed at strengthening legal certainty and the protection of minorities. This is a purpose that we in the Left support. In the Left, we are in favour of all citizens feeling safe and free, regardless of who they are. Hate crimes of any kind cannot be accepted. Attacks on innocent people hit both the individual and the entire population of which the individual is a part. Therefore, hate crimes in no way belong in a society like ours. We must have room in Danish society for you to be who you are. We must all be able to travel anywhere in Denmark regardless of faith, ethnicity, gender identity and disability, and it is our duty as legislators and as a society to do what we can to ensure this. The authors wish to add that a hate crime may be wholly or partly motivated by hatred, and even if an addition to section 81 does not alter the current case law in this area, as it is already mentioned in the preparatory work, a direct addition to the law will send a strong signal, which we in the Left support. For the same reasons explained by the Minister, the Left cannot support an amendment to § 266b. That is why we are also pleased that the government and its supporting parties intend to table an amendment. Against this background, I look forward to the future work of the committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111155523	Thank you for that and there are no brief comments. That is why we thank the rapporteur and move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111155543	Thank you. Today we are debating a citizens' proposal to amend legislation on hate crimes in Denmark. And we in the Danish People's Party are of the opinion that it is good that we have created this opportunity for citizens' proposals, where you can make a number of signatures as a citizen, and then we discuss the proposal in here in the Folketing. The citizen's proposal specifically seeks to extend Article 81, no. 6, about hate motives as aggravating circumstance, as well as section 266b of the law, which is in daily terms called the racism clause. First of all, I would like to say that there is reason to commend the authors of some of the points contained in the proposal here. In the Danish People's Party, we agree that legislation must reflect the order of a society, which means that crimes must be punished and they must also be punished consistently. That is why we in the Danish People's Party want to be able to state in the notification of a crime whether it is a very specific crime, namely a so-called hate crime. It may be a Danish boy who has been attacked by a group of immigrants. We would like to see how many cases this happens. It could be a gay couple who's on their way home from the city where they get mugged because they're gay. And we would also like to see figures for how many cases does this happen? So we agree that the current legislation must be tightened up and that penalties must be increased. For this reason, the Danish People's Party wants it to be an aggravating circumstance, as I said, if a violent crime occurs on the basis of the fact that it is a homosexual or that it is a person who, for example, is a homosexual. are disabled. Then there has to be a harder punishment for it. In the Danish People's Party we want severe penalties for what we call personal crime. That is to say, if another person's physical state of beating and kicking is affected, then we will not be involved in it being treated gently by the authorities. Unfortunately, it is often the case that we see penalties clearly at the low end of the criminal record, even though they are really serious violence, and even though it is difficult for the victim to move forward after what the victim has been subjected to. Then there is a small but some would say it is a big but, and I would actually like to do so in relation to the principle of this proposal, namely that it is proposed to extend Article 266b. It is said in the motion for a resolution that Article 266b of the Staff Law dates back to 1971, and since then there has been a major development in society as well as in the talk of hate speech. Therefore, the provision does not reflect our current society. I would like to say that I agree with that. And that is also why we in the Danish People's Party want to abolish the racism clause, or § 266b, and thus not extend it because society has just changed since the 1970s. Today it is the case that in many cases the so-called racism clause prevents democratic discussion and we need it. We need freedom of speech. It is important that taboos and challenges can be addressed in our society without being hit hard by a penal code clause such as § 266b. So it is important, if we are to have the free democratic conversation, that we do not have § 266b. That is also why, years ago, we had the so-called blasphemy clause abolished, by the way, it is a little strange that the Social Democrats were opposed to abolishing it but wanted to preserve it. A corresponding abolition of the racism clause will support the protection of our freedom of expression, so there is a parallel link between abolishing the blasphemy clause and abolishing the racism clause. Then it is the case that the citizens' proposal proposes to make some improvements, we think, in section 81 of the Penal Code, and in the Danish People's Party we agree that the wording "or similar" which is in this paragraph is not applicable to violence against, for example. disabled. We would like that to be added to the provision. And that is also why the Danish People's Party took the initiative for B 64, as it was called, about a punishment for hate crimes motivated by the victim's disability. So all in all, as I said, there are very good tactics in the citizens' proposal. But the screw we need to tighten on isn't supposed to be 266 b. Legislation needs to be changed elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111160128	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the SF rapporteur. And this is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111160147	No one should be subjected to hate crimes on the basis of who they are. And that is why it is also an important motion for a resolution tabled here today by the circle behind the protection of minorities. Imagine being attacked for something you can't change or can do about your skin color, your sexuality. I think that's pretty awful. And although we have gone much further today in understanding and inclusiveness and tolerance, there is no doubt that there is something to work with. That's what the numbers testify to. Unfortunately, there is an increase in the number of hate crimes, so there are also some worrying trends. And that is why this proposal is quite important. Although some of the proposal has been implemented or is under way through the legislative process in terms of better protection of people with disabilities or another gender identity, there is still some of the proposal that is extremely relevant. After all, we were given a legal explanation of the citizens' proposal, and the assessment is that if we implement the section on the racism clause, the Ministry of Justice cannot actually rule out that it will lead to fewer convictions. And I don't think we can be interested in that. So I think that some of this is also about getting rid of the darkness in this area. And if you are going to have the courage to report, you will also be concerned about whether someone is taking the case and whether it is being conducted, just as, of course, we, as a society, must also be concerned about the preventive effect of the fact that some judgments are actually being handed down. On the other hand, like many other parties in this Chamber, we are concerned with implementing the proposal to include in the paragraph that a hate crime can also be motivated in whole or in part in hatred. We believe that it will send a very strong signal to the police to raise matters and bring them to justice so that they can lead them, and that is very important. I just want to bring some public information into the debate, because there was actually 8%. of the victims in the period 2008-2019, who believed that violence against them was certainly motivated by racism. Unfortunately, we sometimes find that some people are trying to report, but that they are not able to get the matter raised on that basis. And I hope, of course, that this change that we are now making will mean that it will take place to a lesser extent. But this is in fact a place between 4,300 and 5,800 people every year who are subjected to racist-motivated violence. Isn't there anything else we can do when we go through with this? I think there certainly is. This is a step on the way, but we need to do more. I think that one of the major challenges today is also that hatred gets so much freedom on social media. Here the victims stand almost in lawless; they cannot have the voices removed. When you experience that you have to see this spread around you, and then there are very few opportunities to remove it from the net, I think it's quite intrusive. The same rules apply, you might say, as in the physical world, but there is still a great deal to be done about prosecution when it comes to what is going on online. I think we're gonna have to grow something more and do something about that. Then there is the training of police officers, who are the first to meet the victims. It is so important how one is received as a sacrifice, that one meets understanding; that one meets goodwill. We have made some progress in the police settlement, where we want to train the police more. And that is one of the most important elements, because that is where the notification starts and the case can come to fruition. So there are plenty of things that we can start on, what else I think we're going to do. So in the end, there's only one thing to say to congratulations to protect minorities. It is a feat to get 50,000 signatures on a citizen's proposal, but it is an even greater achievement to actually get some of it done. So congratulations and congratulations to all of us, because we, as a society, also benefit from a change in legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111160652	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111160703	Thank you very much. The initiators of this citizens' proposal have been present at Christiansborg since 8 a.m. 11 today and patiently waited for us to reach this final item on the agenda. I met with them at the wait. It was not much they had had eaten and drank with just nervousness and excitement that their citizens' proposals should now be dealt with in the Chamber, and one of the women also got tears in her eyes when she had to tell me about how it felt and what it means that a majority in the Folketing now one by one goes on the platform and expresses support for the citizens' proposal with the initiative group's own amendments. And that support must also be heard here from the Radical Left, because hate crimes are a very serious matter and have serious consequences both for the victims of the specific hate crime, but also for society as a whole. Studies indicate that victims of hate crimes can subsequently live a life of fear and isolation and close themselves to themselves, and this applies not only to the actual victim of the specific crime, but also to the other minority. The consequences of this are that the vulnerable groups do not participate on an equal footing with the rest of the population in society. Today, section 81 of the Criminal Code states no. 6, that it is an aggravating circumstance if a crime is based on the ethnic background, religion, disability, sexual orientation or the like of others. It is just not explicitly stated in the provision today that both wholly and partially hate-motivated crimes are covered. We are changing that now, so that it is made clear in the criminal code that this is a hate crime, even if the motive is only in the goose's eyes • partial is hate. So is everything done with this change of law? No, hate crimes aren't solved with this. In the Radical Left, we have been working for several years to obtain an action plan against racism and discrimination. Regardless of which minority you belong to and where you encounter discrimination, whether it is in the labour market, whether it is in the housing market or in the nightlife, wherever you meet it and what minority you belong to, we should not tolerate it. We have included this requirement for a national action plan in the financial law negotiations. But for now I would like to express my sincere thanks to the initiative group behind the citizens' proposal and to all the signatories of the citizens' proposal for pushing the Folketing towards precisely this important change of law. Today we celebrate, and tomorrow we'll be back in work clothes. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111160959	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111161007	Thank you. Even though I'm really, really happy, it's actually with a little mixed emotion that I'm here today when we're dealing with this citizen's proposal. Because, on the one hand, I have really looked forward to discussing this and dealing with this citizens' proposal, and I am actually a little moved by the fact that a majority has finally been achieved, but on the other hand I am also really, really sad and sorry that it is even necessary to have this discussion at all. For this citizen's proposal and this discussion stem from the fact that there are too many people in Denmark who experience hatred only on the basis that they are who they are. And it makes me furious every time I hear a story about a person who has been subjected to a hate crime on the basis of his ethnicity, gender, sexuality, disability or belief, and although I have to read all too often about these violent attacks in the media, it is in disturbingly few cases that judgment actually falls. One in four attacks in Denmark is experienced by the victim as a hate crime. In 2019, the police reported 569 cases that can be characterised as hate crimes. In these cases, only 120 of them have been indicted. After all, I and Enhedslisten have been fighting for several years for action against hate crimes, and fortunately we in the Danish Parliament have taken steps in the right direction: we have ensured that the penal code's racism clause includes disability; we have ensured that the police now have the opportunity to take further training in the handling of hate crimes; and today we are ensuring that it will be possible to judge for hate crimes, even if you commit another crime at the same time. That is why I would like to express my sincere thanks to those who have written the citizen's proposal, who sent it in. It is a very thorough piece of work that is behind it. I would also like to thank all the people who have signed the citizens' proposal. Thank you for the huge effort that has been made to make this citizen's proposal, to collect those signatures. If that had not happened, I am not sure that today there had been the majority that, fortunately, is emerging in this Chamber today. I think in many ways that it is a little incredible that it is not already the case that you can judge for a hate crime, even though there is another motive, which I think is actually a little strange, because it is in this way stated in the comments, but it simply underlines that it is absolutely necessary to move it into the legislative text. Because in a society governed by the law, all citizens must be protected by the law, regardless of their skin colour, gender, gender identity, religion or disability. In Denmark we are good at telling ourselves and each other that we live in a society where everyone is equal and where there are no problems or discrimination, but that story exists only on paper, because reality tells us something else. Otherwise, I don't think there were 50,000 people who had signed this citizens' proposal. Women wearing a scarf must look over their shoulders on the street. Transpersonals are afraid to take the bus because they are greeted with a shout or spit on or are attacked. Jewish men hide their castle in their pockets. Danish African-Americans are being attacked on their way home from the city. These are people who cannot walk in peace on the streets only because they are who they are. In the spring, my old classmate experienced violence and threats in a parking lot, while at the same time being demeaned by racist expressions by the attacker. It's a clear example of a hate crime, but it took some time. The prosecution had to do some work so that this could even be condemned as a hate crime. That is the reverse way of doing things, I believe. I think this proposal is a step towards a society where we take minority protection seriously, because of course you must have the same conditions as everyone else, whoever you are. We have even more proposals in the Enhedslist on how to secure minority rights in the future, and I hope, of course, that a majority in this House will support the fact that the police should have better training in dealing with hate crimes, that it should be stated in the notification forms, whether this is a hate crime, and that we should have statistics on how many hate crimes actually happen, because if we know these figures, we can also do better. I just want to say that the entire Enhedslisten Parliamentary Group supports the citizens' proposal, supports the amendment and we look very much forward to pressing the green buttons.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111161519	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111161527	The citizens' proposal, which we are discussing here today, tackles a very relevant and important issue. Hate and hate crimes are totally unacceptable in an inclusive society such as the Danish one. This is where you have to be safe to be who you are. As other rapporteurs have already said, this proposal consists of several parts. Part two and three on gender identity and disability are already being dealt with in law, and then we have part one on which I can hear an amendment being tabled so that hate crimes are treated as one point and hate speech as another point. The proposers will in § 81, no. 6, have made it clear that this is a hate crime, regardless of whether the act is wholly or partly motivated. It is clear from the legal notes that if the work is partly motivated by, for example, the sexual orientation of others, it is a hate crime and the punishment can be increased. In fact, it should not have to be included separately in this paragraph, but we must note that the administration of the law lags behind and does not measure up to the work and purpose. The problems are growing, there are very few convictions, there is a large number of dark ones, and much better information needs to be provided than there are today. In the Conservative People's Party we therefore support clarification of the partial motive. We believe that this clarification and the initiatives that we agreed in the police conciliation on better information, the strengthening of police training in hate crimes and more knowledge for the prosecution will together promote the legal certainty of minorities. So we support the change on this point. In addition, the proposers wish to amend § 266b on hateful utterances. It is a very fundamental question of whether we should respond to statements that are offensive to groups, with punishment or with free words. On 4 November, the Minister of Justice sent a legal statement to the Legal Affairs Committee stating that the perpetrator should have continued with the content of the opinion, but that the motive is not decisive and, in the view of the Ministry of Justice, a change would therefore send a signal to the courts to weigh the motive. In the view of the Ministry, it cannot be ruled out that it will lead to fewer convictions. Against this background, we in the Conservative People's Party cannot support that part of the citizens' proposal. This proposal for a citizen is very important, and thank you very much to the authors of the motion for a resolution for a new debate on this very important subject. It's a lot of work to collect 50,000 signatures for a citizen's proposal. It's not something you just do with a fingertips. But to sum up here: Parliament has already taken a position on the problems described in paragraphs 2 and 3. The part concerning clarification of hate crimes in § 81, no. 6, we support, whereas we do not support the part which deals with § 266b.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111161910	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111161919	Thank you. Unfortunately, our usual rapporteur could not be here today, so I have promised to add a few words to it. And since I have been given the case, there has been the change that one of the points will be divided into two points and, in respect of that, of course I will take it back to my parliamentary group and lecture them. Basically, we cannot support the citizens' proposal as it stands, in other words in its entirety, as others have also explained. We want to abolish Article 266b and not extend it. Then the proposal is divided around section 81, no. 6, and we see this as a positive thing, so that only hate crimes may now be voted on. There is a committee working on this, and we look forward to it too. It may actually be that there are elements that we also want to take a positive view of. We will have to see that when there is a specific legislative proposal on it. I would also like to make a few general comments on this. For hate crimes, hate crimes are cruel and bad, whether committed against a minority or against a majority. I think that we should be careful not to divide the debate so that a hate crime is worse when it is committed by a minority against another minority than if it is committed because of sexuality, religiousness or anything else. We need to be careful not to bend these hate crimes. In my optics, a hate crime is just a hate crime. In fact, I think it is positive if we start to record this a little more, also in detail. I mean, the victim study that's in there is an estimate. So when you say it with 7 and 8 per cent, it's an estimate where you think there might be somewhere between 3,000 and 5,000, but we really don't know it. Because it is based on a victim study, and it is a subjective assessment of what you feel, and it is not the same as the fact that the authorities have made it clear that this is an objective hate crime that has occurred because of a minority, a sexual orientation or something else. So I actually think it's important that we start looking a little more at these numbers, too, because there are minorities that are harder hit than others; you have to be honest and say that. The Jews are harder hit. Now I know that Mr. Sikandar Siddique talked about the Muslims, but it is not quite factually correct. If you think of the proportion of them, it is actually the Jews who have the highest proportion of people who are committed hate crimes against. We have an obligation to look at that. I would also say that I hope that something will happen by changing section 81, no. 6. Because, as it is now, the judges can, both in full and in part, judge by it already in the current legislation. Now you want the addition that it should be written in general, at least as I understand it, so that is the change you are going for. And there I hope that it will spread to the people, to the whole population, that now, when you feel that you are a victim of it, you have to make it clear to the police that that is what you are a victim of. I think you might need to be better at making contact, because what I often experience is what I call everyday racistism. Maybe that's a stupid word for it... where you experience something that you let go over your head. I see this as a dangerous trend: that if, as a society, we get used to it being okay and that it doesn't matter whether someone lives with being called a leprechaun, lives with being called a potato or living with something else. As a society, I think we're going down a bad path if it starts to become normal. In my years in the Danish primary school I have seen a slip, where you start to accept a different tone towards each other, and where it is often excused with sarcasm or irony. And, of course, we must still be careful that the two concepts are preserved in the Danish language, as I think it is important to have, but most often there is also a real undertone in what we, as a society, have begun to accept, and that is a dangerous way to go down. That's why you can hope for something to happen to this. I think that Mr. Peter Skaarup had some good considerations about getting it registered. I'm not so afraid of the documentation requirement, but I want this to be registered much more clearly. And if we can get people out there, if they experience it on a bus or experience it elsewhere, to take this seriously and report it in so that we in here, as legislators, have a completely real picture of the extent of it, then we can also take the right steps towards it. I think that would be a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111162419	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and that is from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111162423	Thank you. It is such a strange day for gray November today: the Enhedslisten and the government are in agreement that this should be introduced, sir. Peter Skaarup inspired me to ask a question, for now we just agreed on something, and now Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens something I also agree with. It just doesn't happen that often, so I just have to make sure I got it right. Well, New Citizen would like to join with among others. The Enhedslisten work to ensure that more statistics are made in the area of hate crimes and that we get a clearer overview of who is committing them and who is hurting, precisely so that we can prevent them and stop them?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111162506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111162507	Well, I think there are more hate crimes going on in Danish society than you know today, and then we can have a political opinion about who it is about, whether it is minorities or majority, and it can then start to separate us, and I do not think there is any reason for this. But I also experience many inquiries from ordinary ethnic Danes, who also experience that there for example. in Aarhus are buses they do not dare to drive in, and they get lots of comments when they sit in, and we must take that too seriously. But I don't want to end up with this being such a debate and such a debate, because my main point was that hate crimes are hate crimes and that it doesn't matter whether they are committed against minorities or majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111162554	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111162555	Well, I agree with that example, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen is coming with us is absolutely horrible, but it's already criminalised. What we are trying to do now is to ensure that minorities are also better protected. But what I am looking for is: can we at least agree on the extreme left and the extreme right here that better statistics should be made on this so that we can get to grips with the problem? Because I agree that there are many of the crimes that are never reported. That's what the Crime Prevention Council says. They say that there is a huge amount of darkness, and that is precisely an expression of the fact that there is much that is not being reported.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111162634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111162635	So maybe the waters will split up in the end anyway, because I do not agree that the majority is protected in this. In other words, we also have to look at whether it is when immigrant boys and descendants are assaulting and it is mainly against ethnic Danes, so not also a hate crime. Has there not been a selection on the basis of ethnicity or nationality when it occurs? We also have to take that into account, and if you close your eyes to it, you have not done your job properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111162719	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. I don't see anyone from the Liberal Alliance, so we're moving on to the Free Greens, and that's Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111162733	Thank you for the floor, President. May I start by looking up at the three strong, strong women sitting up there who have formulated this citizens' proposal. Thank you so much. You have succeeded in something that has been really, really difficult, namely putting anti-racism and hatred on the agenda of the Folketing. Thank you so much. And thank you very much to the 50,000 citizens who have signed your citizens' proposals and have made it possible for us to stand here today talking about hatred, racism and hate crimes. Let me start by saying that the Free Greens are totally behind the citizens' If it were up to us, it would have to be done exactly with the same wording as the one you have formulated. So we totally back it up. I understand that there is not total support for the whole proposal, but I would nevertheless like to use the opportunity to sign and thank all the other parties who support the amendment, because it is an important amendment. We in the Green Group had tabled a similar proposal, which should also have been on today's agenda, but which we drew so that we could deal with this particular citizen's proposal. It is also important for me and the Greens to say that this is an important first step, and it is an important first step, because I see it in this way that we in the Folketing today recognise that there is a need to protect minorities, that we recognise that there is a hatred out there that must be combated, that we recognise that there is a racism out there that must be combated. The racism and hatred against sexual minorities, against Muslim minorities, against people with a particular gender expression, against all the minorities we have out there, we do not fight by believing that we are now in the goal, because we are not. We know that women with a scarf must send 60%. several applications to be considered at all for a job, for a conversation. It is discrimination in the labour market, and we must resolve that too. We know that there are a great many citizens, brown citizens, minority citizens who are discriminated against in the nightlife, and we also need to resolve this. We know that there are a lot of young minority boys who are exposed to racial profiling, there are lots of stories out there, and we need to solve that. We know that when Fatma and Halima still do not get a job after 100 applications, they are told at the job center that if you change your first name, it will be easier to consider. We therefore have problems with discrimination, direct, indirect, structural discrimination and racism, and we must tackle that. Free Greens, Denmark's anti-racist party, invites everyone in the financial negotiations to support a comprehensive anti-racist action plan • a plan of action against racism and hatred so that we can combat hatred at all levels of society, combat discrimination and ensure that we become a real, diverse society. Because it is important to remember that as long as some of us are trapped by the shackles of racism or the hatred, as long as some of us, just some of us, are trapped, none of us are free. So the time has come for us to recognise that we are a diverse society and that diversity must be expressed structurally and in our everyday lives. So the Greens fully and 100% support the proposal and we look forward to further work on the proposal. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111163216	Thank you. There is one person who has wanted to make a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111163219	It is because I would like to come a little closer to whether the rapporteur also thinks that it can be considered • and I am not saying that it always does so as a hate crime if a group of immigrant boys, five or six, come together and pick a Danish boy and attack him.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111163243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111163244	When the questioner says immigrant boys, is it some who have come from outside and attack an ethnic Danish boy, or is the questioner really talking about minority young people born and raised in Denmark? Because that is an important detail and an important premise for the issue, which must be in order. I would just like to draw your attention to that. I believe that all kinds of hatred, hatred against everyone, must be combated. I have recently written a chronicle about misunderstood masculinity standards, which are just about how we, when Muhammad makes trouble, or when Lars does it, or when Brian does it, can fight it. I believe that all kinds of hatred must be combated. However, it is important for me to stress that there is a relationship between majority and minority there is a difference. It may be that as a minority you can practice hatred against a majority, but you cannot practice racism. There are some structures that are similar to each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111163347	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111163347-2	Now it's starting to get interesting. So a minority cannot exercise racism against a majority. It is therefore wild words that a minority cannot exercise racism against a majority; only the majority can exercise racism against a minority. Is that really the position of the Free Greens?
ParlaMint-DK_20211111163407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111163408	It is the position of the Free Greens that all groups can practice hatred against each other, but if you are to practice racism in a society, you must be at the top, have power in society. Then you can practice racism down. But when minorities are at the bottom of society, they cannot practice racism upwards they can practice hatred, but that is another thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111163433	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And I don't see anyone from KD. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211111163452	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Wednesday, 17 November 2021 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
