ParlaMint-DK_20210419100001	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419100007	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419100033	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to thank the Conservative People's Party, which, in its resolution, highlights an important problem: violent crimes, in which the victim is also subjected to a particular humiliation, what is called domination violence. We have all read some of those terrible examples that have been published in the media, among others. a case where a victim of violence was forced to kiss the perpetrator's shoes. This is completely unacceptable and insane behaviour. One wonders: What is it that causes people to do something like this? Let me state clearly: Vold is in itself disgusting and the victim is then in some cases subjected to the kind of humiliation that is also described in the proposal, is of course extremely offensive. This is a form of abuse, not only inflicting physical pain on the victim, but at the same time exhibiting and humiliating him. There are even cases where it is filmed and distributed to others. We're gonna have to take this down pretty hard. As the authors themselves have said, this type of crime is already punishable under current legislation. As a starting point, a violent crime can be punished by up to three years' imprisonment and, if it is particularly brutal, it can be punished by up to six years' imprisonment, and this also applies in the case of domination violence. Furthermore, in cases of domination violence, practice shows that the courts place a sharper emphasis on the nature of the violence and, therefore, on whether the victim has been subjected to a particular offence or humiliation, and that is certainly what I think it should be. Having said that, we are always ready to see whether we have the right sanctions against such reprehensible behaviour as domination violence is an expression of. This is a serious area, and here I find the Swedish trend to which the proposers refer very worrying. The fact that some examples of similar cases have been seen in Denmark does not diminish my concern. I think it is important that we keep an eye on whether we in Denmark are going to see an increasing trend towards domination in the future, i.e. as has been seen in Sweden. And I have therefore asked the Attorney General to keep up with developments in this area, so that we have regular insight into whether there is such a trend, whether it is spreading in Denmark, and how such cases are otherwise punished in practice. With the resolution, the Conservative People's Party is calling for us to introduce an independent provision on domination in the criminal code and for us to tighten up the penalties. And when I see the nasty things that exist about domination violence, I get it. I take note of the fact that crimes such as domination, as they stand today, are already being punished in accordance with the rules in force and that they are also being punished more severely than violent crimes which do not have an element of humiliation. As things stand at the moment, therefore, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. If the legal situation already supports what the proposers would like to do, namely to strike down this disgusting phenomenon, then I think it would take some more thought to resort to a separate provision. But I think there is reason to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising this important issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419100407	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. Could the Minister please prepare for the start of the rapporteur's series? The first rapporteur is the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419100442	Thank you. And thank you to the Conservative People's Party for addressing this phenomenon in Parliament. For it is quite true that we have seen these very, very humiliating examples of behaviour, where one has the impression that it also has the purpose of sharing it on social media afterwards, so that it is simply part of the concept that as if it is not humiliating enough in the situation itself, then the victim must be humiliated over and over again. This is a worrying development. It's both disgusting to look at, but it's also worrying that this type of violence, which has this element of division over it too, is gaining ground. Therefore, it is good to have a discussion on whether there should be aggravating circumstances in relation to domination violence. As the Minister for Justice has already explained, this type of case is already being judged harder than similar cases, if you can put it that way. But I think it might be relevant that, under the auspices of the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs, we may also begin a discussion of the different types of violence that have in common that the aim is also to humiliate the victim over and over again through the sharing of videos on social media. It's very, very serious. We have seen it in connection with material that shows sexual abuse, and we saw it in the Umbrella case, where young people get their lives ruined because someone is recording a video of them and sharing it, and it's kind of the same here, without, of course, being completely comparable. That is why I think it would be very good to have an inter-political discussion on how we deal with these phenomena. Then the proposal here lays down that there should be an independent clause in the criminal code, and we also have discussions from time to time about how our criminal code is built up, and we certainly do not have the practice of making a lot of separate paragraphs, and that may not be appropriate either. If we are to move in this direction, I think that it will certainly require a greater discussion of the principle of what we want with our criminal law. This may not be the occasion to do so, but it is an opportunity to say that we must take this very seriously, and I am also very pleased with the Minister for Justice's statement that we are, of course, looking at developments. And as I said, I think we could also have a joint discussion under the auspices of the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs on the phenomena of social media and violence that are being used in this context. Against this background, I must formally say that the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419100721	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Mads Andersen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419100726	Thank you for that, and thank both the Minister and the rapporteur for the statement that we have an understanding of our proposal. I would like to say that I would like to hear from the rapporteur some of what we could see from the case in question, which has been a great deal of talk and where most of the rapporteurs in the Chamber have also been out to speak. In this context, there are also some young people who are actually talking about this because they think it's a little interesting and a little adrenaline-susinging... it was actually someone who wrote to look at some of these videos that are flourishing on social media. So some of what might perhaps be the intention of the proposal could also be that you actually went in and put a greater emphasis on the fact that other young people are also well aware that this is wrong. So now that the rapporteur really has sympathy for the proposal, does the rapporteur not see that, when you have a paragraph that specifically points out that this is an extremely serious type of violence, which is even being divided, it could also have a preventive effect on other young people who go in and share it and see it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419100824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419100825	Yeah, I can see that. Well, in that way, we could make many clauses in our penal code that could have a preventive effect. And maybe that's what was my point about how the penal code is built. But of course you could say that you could make a paragraph about this, and you could make a paragraph about the second and the third. That is why, under the auspices of the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs, we were able to discuss these phenomena, which deal with different types of crime, which have in common, that they should be shared on the social media. It could, in fact, be very interesting to deal with a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419100851	Sir. Mads Andersen to another remark? No, there will be no further brief comments to the rapporteur. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Left, and he is the rapporteur. Preben Bang Henriksen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419100916	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Conservatives for presenting this motion for a resolution. Let me start with the most important thing: the Left supports the proposal. That is what the Left is doing because we have read and heard with horror about the development where domination violence has come to Denmark. In the past it was a phenomenon that we mainly and perhaps only knew from Sweden as a quite frightening example, and it worries us in the Left that we have now imported this kind of abomination. Because it's disgusting what's going on. I'm not going to recount the examples. The Minister for Justice has also mentioned them, and I note that when the debate is finished, I believe that the whole parliament agrees to distance itself from this in various ways. It aims to expose and humiliate the victim. It is typically a group of young people who look out for random victims and violence against them, and the violence is documented and broadcast on social media. Dominantism as an independent provision of the criminal code is, in my view, an excellent opportunity. With this option, statistical data on domination violence can be compiled to a greater extent than is currently the case, with specific codes of conduct in the police case management system. It will also be possible to lay down and ensure that we are judged more severely for it than may be the case today. We did it, among other things. with section 276 of the burglary clause and made a section 276 a roughly based on the same argument that we have here. And it then came to relate to theft in connection with burglary in houses. So, in general terms, I would like to say: yes, thank you for a separate provision, and, in particular, thank you for an increase in the penalty. Here, as usual, I don't care what the penalty is. What interests me is what the normal punishment is. And I cannot say what the normal punishment is in relation to domination violence, but I noticed that the Minister for Justice is going to launch an investigation via the Attorney General, and I think that is exactly what we need to find out whether this is something that can be regulated by the usual penal and penal provisions in paragraphs 81 and 82 of the Penal Code, or whether it is something that requires independent legislation from in here. So the Left can support the proposal, but waits with interest for the Minister of Justice's further investigation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419101154	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is no wish for short remarks. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419101214	In the Danish People's Party we think it is a good proposal that the Conservatives have made here. It is a good proposal because, unfortunately, in the society in which we live, we see some situations that we have also seen in Sweden, where some people, typically boys, immigrant boys, surround a person, it may be a boy or a girl, but often a boy who is then subjected to domination, and where you steal his things and expose him to violence and worse. It is clear that this is a trend that we must take as hard a stance as we possibly can. That is why it is very welcome, I think, to make it clear that we will not tolerate it and that we will pay higher penalties for it in the society we are living in today. We want law and order, and we want the police to have time and opportunity to deal with such cases, so that there are some sensitive penalties. That said, of course, you can read the criminal code today and say, "Well, isn't it already a criminal offence? ' Paragraph 244 states, and I quote: "Whoever commits violence against or otherwise attacks someone else's body is fined or imprisoned for up to three years. Pieces 2. If the circumstances referred to in paragraph 1 are not fulfilled, the Commission shall inform the European Parliament and the Council of the measures taken to comply with this paragraph. 1, repeatedly over a period of time by a person in or closely associated with the injured person's household, without the relationship being covered by § 245, the penalty may increase to prison up to 6 years. ▪ It might well be the paragraph that some of the cases we unfortunately see on the street today could be covered. The reality is that if we look at the levels of penalties, in relation to how much is actually given in punishment, is it 3 years, or is it 6 years in aggravating cases? Actually, it's not. Very often the penalties are down at the low end of the register. That is not 3 years or not 6 years, but maybe a few months, or it may be fine. That's why we need a tightening-up in these conditions. That is also why, as I understand it, Conservatives say that then we have to spell out that we simply will not tolerate it. It must be made punishable. It is therefore obvious that this should be done. Having said that, one can of course also look at whether there should be other ingredients in the cocktail that are intended to take action against this. Yeah, there could be. There could be better help for the victims. There could also be better journaling in the police of these far too many cases. Too often when you strike back, you can see that the police may not have gone after what was actually domination violence. I have to say that there is at least a political desire from the Danish Parliament to do so and to record correctly, so that we can see that this was actually what we can call domination violence. So in this way there are several things that need to be tackled when we look at this area again for the benefit of law and order and for the public's judicial awareness, for it is trampled underfoot, every single time we see short, strange penalties for what we can call serious crime. 'Cause they're gonna get hurt pretty bad. So there must be strong support for the proposal. Let us get it implemented and then forget about all those legal subtleties and bad excuses, as it may be, for not doing so. So that's yes from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419101552	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419101630	Thank you. Unfortunately, our rapporteur, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, could not be here today, so I will just read her speech. In the SF we actually agree with the proposers that domination has such a special, extra punishable element, because the act of violence is filmed and put out to public view or intends to degrade the victim. It adds something extra serious and humiliating because the victim is also exposed and oppressed. I think we are less in agreement with the need for a special paragraph. In connection with the new consent law, it was in fact one of the elements we discussed that a rape is equally serious, regardless of who committed it. This means that it should not give a minor penalty just because the rape was committed by someone you know rather than by a stranger who jumps out of a bush. The same is true here. We should not have a paragraph for each form of violence, even though we might see the sense of partner violence. On the other hand, I would like to discuss whether domination could be an aggravating circumstance, and we would like to see partner violence also become the same. Here it is aggravating that you are being subjected to violence by someone with whom you should be most comfortable in your home. With those words we will say in the SF that we would like to discuss further, but immediately we are not in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419101759	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. Then I can welcome the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard, on behalf of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419101839	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Conservative People's Party for focusing on the phenomenon and the types of vile violence in which the offended is humiliated, especially by its inclusion or otherwise being shared in the virtual world. This is quite a terrible and humiliating act, which should not take place at all. That is why, of course, it is already the case today that the situation in which a group surrounds a person with violence and theft is punishable. Because under our criminal law, theft is punishable and violence is punishable. Violence is punishable as simple violence in section 244 of the Criminal Code. Rough violence is punishable by Article 245 of the Penal Code, and violence resulting in death is punishable by Article 246 of the Penal Code. In addition, if there is an organisation, or if this is the result of a group which is carrying out the specific action, it is more than punishing after our paragraphs of violence. So in this way the intention of Conservatives' proposals is quite excellent and quite right. Today, and thank goodness for it, this has already been taken into account in the legislation, in view of the fact that the text of the motion for a resolution is both criminal and penal. Then the Conservative People's Party proposes that a new paragraph on domination violence should be included in section 244 of the Criminal Code, and as I listed earlier, § 244 is the paragraph for simple violence, and in this way one can get the impression that the Conservative People's Party will believe in advance that domination violence cannot be serious violence. As far as the practice is concerned, such things as kicking in the head or something like that can normally be gross violence. So putting it exactly in section 244, I doubt it is the right thing to do. However, our legislation must, of course, take account of the digital developments that are taking place, and that is why we have just said, under the auspices of the police conciliation, that we need to review our current penal code in order to ensure that it takes account of the digital developments that exist and, if that does not happen enough, the Radical Left is, of course, more than willing to look at them in the seams, so that we can convert our legislation into the digital age.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419102127	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419102148	I would also like to start by thanking the Conservative People's Party for raising this very, very important debate. I think we have a major problem with our criminal law, and that is that it is not adapted to the reality in which we live, where there have been new forms of crime and it is therefore relevant to discuss what we are doing about it. I think it was the rapporteur of the Left who said that domination is, of course, a relatively new problem, which we are unfortunately familiar with from other countries and which has now come to Denmark, and that is why it is relevant for us to discuss in this Chamber what we can do to stop it. It follows from Article 81 of the Penal Code that, in determining the penalty in general, it applies, inter alia, to: I think that all three things have to do with what the proposers call domination violence. So there are already a great many reasons for increasing the penalty. Because, of course, it is worse if several people attack a single person, of course, it is worse if it is planned, and of course we have to take such cases very seriously, but that there should be a need to criminalise independently this phenomenon, which is already covered by the rules of violence and by section 264 d, and therefore the need for us to have a separate paragraph, I cannot see. If we were to criminalise each individual crime independently, we could imagine that the penal code would be incredibly long, in fact a lot longer than it already is, because instead of a provision for theft, we would suddenly have hundreds of different ones, so that we could be punished independently for shoplifting, pickpockets, trick theory, online theft, etc. This seems a little superfluous, as the courts, with their experience and the criminal code's guidelines on punishment, are perfectly capable of imposing all forms of theft with a single provision. It is, of course, a thoughtful example, but it is just to say what would happen if we had to make separate clauses for everything in the penal code. In the same way, the courts also have the ability to both punish persons who participate in so-called domination violence according to paragraphs 244, 245 and 264d and, at the same time, add the penal circumstances to the sentence. We know, of course, that today's criminal code has difficulty dealing with crime that happens online, and unfortunately I believe that a large part of the domination is that it is the extra humiliation that lies in it being divided and divided over and over again, because for the victim it is the same as experiencing the attack once more, every time it is divided. That is why I also believe that the social platforms that provide websites for it to be shared have a huge responsibility to stop it, because it is illegal in Denmark to make domination violence, it is illegal to attack others, and it is particularly illegal to film it to put it online, and I think we should do that to the courts, but I think we should also impress it on the social platforms that add browsers to this kind of violence. And I think we should have a debate on that in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and we are very pleased to have this debate in the Enhedslisten. We cannot support the proposal as it stands here, but we are very pleased that Conservatives have raised the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419102532	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Mads Andersen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419102536	Thank you, and thank you for understanding, if only. Now I have heard several rapporteurs say that this is something we need to look at in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, of course, we look forward to doing so. I'd like to start with a little thing. When I was young, there was a phenomenon called happy slapping, and I think it occurred in England and was on a slightly different scale than what we have seen examples of here. It was that a bunch of young people went over and hit someone in the head and then filmed it on their phones. It was brand new, because phones with camera in were brand new then, while social media didn't fill the same thing as they do today. So when I hear the rapporteur recognise that there may be a need for us to look through some of these things, including some of the platforms we have in the form of social media, it might be relevant that in here, from the centre of power, as you can say, we start with just as much as focusing on something, and it could be that you actually made this independent paragraph. It should be both to send a signal to our social platform providers, but also to young people that sharing these things after they have been committed is a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419102637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419102638	Unfortunately, I know, I would say, well about the concept of happy slapping, which is bullying on the Internet and which is, of course, a very different degree from this. If you can talk about something being mild, I would say that, frankly, this does not seem very mild. As I think I said in my speech, it is already a criminal offence to do these things. Where we have a particular responsibility is, of course, to tell the platform providers that it is actually criminal. Just as in 264 d, sharing naked images without consent is criminal, we also believe that this is criminal. But I do not think it should have its own provision. What could be an opportunity, and which I think we should discuss in the Committee on Legal Affairs, is whether we can include something in the comments which makes domination violence an aggravating circumstance. Because, as I said before, I do not believe that our penal code is always up to date with the reality we are living in today and the forms of crime we are unfortunately seeing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419102734	The next brief remark is from Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419102739	Thank you, and thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund, for manipulating us a little in what we need to do with criminal law changes and not changes. When I ask questions here, it is because I am a little surprised that one is so completely clarified that this should not lead to a special paragraph. When I say that, it is also because the Enhedslisten has on several occasions spoken in favour of having special paragraphs for special situations. Let me just mention the consent law that we have discussed, a special paragraph, id-theft, which we have discussed, a special paragraph. So why not here? I am a little surprised that the rapporteur says that it is quite awful to have specific paragraphs when you have been involved in proposing them yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419102829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419102830	After all, the consent law is a change to the existing rape clause, and I would find it really a pity if our penal code did not have a clause that criminalised rape. By the way, I take it that Mr. Peter Skaarup agrees, since the Danish People's Party ended up voting for the amendment to the paragraph. So it wasn't a new paragraph, it was a paragraph that existed in advance but that we changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419102852	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419102853	Yes, you can always discuss whether it is a change of paragraph or whether it is a new paragraph. But what about ID theft? Do we not agree that the legislation of the society in which we live today does not take account of the fact that things move as quickly as they do, where people steal other people's identity and in this way cheat and deceive people in today's Denmark? So I wonder why we shouldn't actually make a special paragraph for that. Is the Enhedslisten against it or how?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419102934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419102935	As I started by saying, I do not believe that our penal code has been updated to the reality in which we live, where, unfortunately, there is a lot of new crime. It is both id-theft, it is the phenomenon we are talking about today, but it is also grooming, which our penal code does not properly frame. That is why I think it is good that we have this debate and I look forward to having it in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Nor is it completely chiseled in stone that Enhedslisten doesn't think this should be a separate paragraph, but right now I'm just not convinced. But I am looking forward to the committee reading, where I assume that Mr. Peter Skaarup is going to do what he can to convince the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419103010	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are no more brief comments on the Enhedslisten. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens. It's Mrs. Mette Thiesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419103034	Thank you. In June 2020, a video of two boys in a shopping centre in Sønderborg began to flourish on the Internet. In the video you can see that one, a boy with a foreign background, grabs the other, a Danish boy, around his neck, and then he pushes the boy into a toilet booth. Inside the booth, the Danish boy gets knocked on the side of his head and nodded a shell, and afterwards he gets kicked in the head. Lying on his knees, he ends up being forced to kiss the perpetrator's shoes. With Middle Eastern people, Middle Eastern conditions follow, and that is what I mentioned, a clear example of that. Dominant violence is already a well-known phenomenon in Sweden, where the humiliating treatment is mainly used by young criminal immigrants. For decades politicians have pursued a totally misguided policy on foreigners, a policy on foreigners that has made Denmark less secure and less secure, a policy on foreigners that has already done great damage to our society, and the price of the politicians' massive failure is paid by our children. Mosques are shooting up in several cities, the women's oppressive Muslim scarf thrives in institutions, schools and public workplaces, halal meat and gender-separated swimming are easily accepted, immigrant gangs are shooting on open street, and terrorist protection has become today's architecture. Police, rescuers and home workers meet with violence and vandalism in foreign - heavy residential areas, crimes committed by people with Middle Eastern, foreign, or Arabic looks are daily reading material in the local media. Foreigners are over-represented in unemployment statistics, and this also applies to crime. Almost one out of every four who were convicted of rape in Denmark in 2020 were foreign nationals, i.e. without Danish citizenship. It is a very strong over-representation. Male non-western descendants are more than twice as criminal as Danish men. In New Citizens we believe that foreign policy must be resolved from scratch, so that we get our safe and secure Denmark back. An asylum freeze must be introduced, foreigners must support themselves, and criminal foreigners must be deprived of their Danish nationality and expelled after the first sentence. Danish citizenship should not be granted to foreigners from Muslim countries who are over-represented in crime statistics, the penalty for violence, rape and threats should be increased, the concern for Danes' security should be higher than the consideration for obsolete conventions. The bill for decades of misguided alien politics cannot and must not be left in the nursery. Of course, we support this proposal to introduce an independent provision on domination in the criminal code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419103340	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. And thank you for getting ready for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419103406	It is a serious crime that we are talking about here, which has come to Denmark and which we have apparently not had to the same extent in the past, but perhaps now has to a greater extent. I very much agree that this is a very serious crime and that it must be severely punished. A serious process must be initiated, and we note with satisfaction that the Government of the Minister of Justice will initiate such a process by asking the Attorney General to carry out a study on the subject. After all, the punishment is suitable for very political profiling, and what you often see is that if a crime is committed in society that arouses suspicion, there are always some parties who would argue that they are more against that crime than all other parties, although all parties are against the crime. That claim is made possible by making a proposal that the penalty should be higher. We do not like that process very much. It cannot be the case that we should increase the penalty every time a crime is committed, because there are some parties that can profil it and can use it to claim that they are more against that crime than the other parties. It may well be that there should be an independent legislative provision on domination, as the Conservatives are proposing here, but I do not want to rule that out, but I want the substance of the matter to be clarified properly, and that is why we support the Government's desire to conduct a study with the Attorney General at the forefront.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419103555	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. I can give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Mads Andersen from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419103615	Thank you. And thank the rapporteurs and the Minister for showing understanding for our proposals. After all, in the Conservative People's Party here we are trying to put a special focus on this domination and humiliation violence. To be subjected to violence by another human being, everything else equal must be super harsh, very uncomfortable and of course also insecure. It's almost impossible to imagine how difficult it must be. Unfortunately, in recent years we have seen an increasing trend towards groups of young people not only exercising this violence, but doing so with the aim of dominating or humiliating their victims. It may be that the victim is mocked and laughed while the victim is forced to drink urine, kiss shoes or spit on, and then it is split on social media. It is completely insane and it is something that we simply have to respond to. We also find it difficult just to pass on responsibility to the digital platforms and social media. We think that the work has to start here from Christiansborg. At the same time, our police are simply working with the ordinary paragraph of violence in such cases, and it can of course always be placed under aggravating circumstances when judging people, but it is not mapped out in the police system until you get a paragraph like the one we are proposing. That's what we'd like to try to change with this proposal. It must be easier to unravel these groupings and their patterns, and a separate paragraph for humiliation and domination violence will contribute to that. At the same time, it also allows the defendant to be punished more and more severely when it can be assumed that, in addition to the violence itself, which has been carried out, there has been an objective of humiliation or domination of the wrong victim. I hope that the parties of the Folketing will help to get the government started on this work. That sounds like it, and I am, of course, happy about it. If nothing else, we may need to spend a few rounds on it in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and we can live with that, because we feel that this proposal is fair, creates security and makes sense. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419103824	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419103829	Thank you for that and, as I said in my speech, thank you for the proposal. It's a little in the wake of Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's post, which I actually found both interesting and perspectiveful. I would really like to know whether the Conservative Group now has the view that we should change our views. Now, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, as Minister of Justice until the last parliamentary elections, is this an expression of a change in our view of how we should make clauses in the penal code, that the Conservative People's Party is now proposing a separate paragraph for domination violence, and can we expect similar proposals to come up also to have a basis for the discussion we are going to have in the Committee on Legal Affairs?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419103913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419103914	Something I can promise, sir. Jeppe Bruus, is that when someone in this Chamber proposes to make it harder to be a criminal, to commit gang crimes and to harm other people, the Conservative People's Party will always help tighten legislation. Whether we sit in the Ministry of Justice or whether we just have a young new alternate inside as the legal rapporteur, that will be the way we work. That is why we also welcome the fact that the rest of Parliament's parties are involved in the debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419103943	There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419104018	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419104028	Thank you to the proposers of the Conservative People's Party. Criminal gang members make life insecure for innocent Danes through violence, blackmail, threats, shootings. We will not accept the behavior that we experience from the gangs. It is my core priority as Minister of Justice to create a secure society; therefore, for the last year and a half the government has engaged in a number of areas against the gangs. This is an area that we follow closely. We listen to the wishes of the police and the authorities. And I can guarantee that we have not yet seen the government's final blow to the gangs. Therefore, there may also be good reason to look at the possibility of gang criminals getting compensation and compensation if they are injured in gang-related crime. And in this way I understand the motives behind the proposal, but I cannot support the proposal as it stands. According to the motion for a resolution, we must deprive gang criminals of the right to tort compensation if they are harmed by gang crimes. However, this should not apply in very serious cases. In addition, it is proposed that the perpetrator should instead be sentenced to pay compensation to a charitable fund. Today, anyone who has been the victim of an infringement can make a claim against the perpetrator. Here, tort compensation is one of several possible demands if you have been injured or offended. It is already the case today that compensation is only granted for particularly serious violent crimes or detentions. In practice, for example, this includes: serious violence, robbery and attempted murder. The attack should typically have caused a serious injury and have triggered a minimum prison sentence of 1 year before it could result in compensation. So, to a large extent, the legal situation is already such that compensation is only granted for particularly serious cases of violence. As the motion for a resolution has been formulated, the proposal concerns the liability law. It is the law which regulates the economic relationship between a harmful person and an injured person, i.e.: the private claim that an injured gang criminal may have on another if he is subjected to an injury or an offence due to gang crime. I do not believe that there is any reason for us to interfere in whether gang criminals make claims against each other and demand compensation for torture. Perhaps the proposal can actually prevent an injured person from setting a claim against an injurer if the compensation does not benefit the victim but ends up in a fund. In this way, the proposal could perhaps have the opposite effect of what is intended, namely that a harmful agent should be released cheaper than today, provided that gang members think so far. I therefore believe that the proposal will not have any significant significance if it is seen as an approach to reducing gang crime. In addition, as I have said, compensation for torture is already granted only in the case of particularly serious crimes of violence and detention. Moreover, tort is only one of several items which can be claimed by a harmful crime, and in the case of serious personal injury or death, the tort allowance will typically be a minor item in relation to the requirement of e.g. compensation for permanent but lost earnings and earning capacity or loss of dependants. That is why I do not believe that the proposal will have the effect that could be hoped for. Having said that, I basically agree with the proposers that gang members expose themselves to a risk when participating in gang crime. That is why I believe that there is reason to consider whether we should adjust the state victim compensation scheme. This is the arrangement whereby the State grants compensation to victims of a crime. Once the state has paid the compensation to a victim, the state takes over the victim's claims against the perpetrator. The system has been created to take account of victims who, in some cases, have very little prospect of actually getting their claims through with the perpetrator. It can be said that the State takes on the financial risk that some have been exposed to for those who have been subjected to a crime. The compensation scheme shall be administered by the Compensation Board. Up to now, the mention has considered it to be part of a gang relationship as an acceptance of the risk of injury, and this has led to the abolition of the right to compensation. However, in December 2019 the Supreme Court issued a verdict which means that the name has had to change its practice. In short, the judgment stated that the Compensation Board could no longer waive compensation if the court would award compensation to the victim in a case against the person responsible for the damage. The judgment has meant that the mention cannot be cancelled to the same extent as in the past, because the victim is associated with gangs and has therefore paid victim compensation to persons associated with the gang environment. I certainly believe that it is debatable, to put it mildly, whether we should take the same consideration of gang criminals who, by participating in crime, are deliberately exposed to danger, as to ordinary people who are unwittingly exposed to a crime. When we fight the gangs with one hand by all means, it can be inconsistent if we pay compensation with the other hand to gang members who have incurred damage in the conflicts that society is doing all it can to combat. In fact, I appreciate the fact that the authors of the motion have raised the debate and, although I cannot support the proposal as it stands, I fully share the desire to cut the gangs and other abuses. I would therefore like to take the initiative of examining whether we can amend the victim compensation law so that gang criminals who are injured in gang conflicts no longer have the right to claim state victim compensation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419104654	Thank you, Minister. There are no requests for brief comments to the Minister. That is how the rapporteur can begin, and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Beazley. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419104717	Thank you. Such a quiet Monday, however, Parliament's work shows itself from the sunny side, when some resolutions here from the Conservatives are, in fact, well-thought out, helping to set some work in motion. And I can say, following on from what the Minister of Justice said, that there is probably no one here who has any intention whatsoever that we should put gang members a better mystery than we have to. That is why it makes sense to look at whether it is not possible to stop it, that a gang member can obtain compensation from the state. It seems in itself to be at odds with all the work we do to cut these gangs and, above all, their members. In this way, it is a good proposal from the Conservatives. I am not going to explain here what the Minister of Justice has just said about the other parts of the proposal. It is clear that it raises a question of principle, namely whether, in relation to seeking compensation, you should be placed at a disadvantage because you are a gang member. As such, I have no problem with that. With what we have done to limit it, it is already an aggravating circumstance to be a gang member. However, we can unfortunately see that, although crime is generally falling, one of the reasons why we have a challenge in criminal justice and in our prisons is quite grotesque that while there is more security in relation to ordinary crime, gang members fill up and expel foreigners very much in our prisons. This is not least due to the fact that a number of gang packages that we have jointly adopted over the years mean that more gang members are convicted and sentenced to longer sentences and therefore also have to serve longer and therefore fill up more in prisons. It is unfortunately an expression of the fact that it is very, very difficult to hit organised crime, because criminals operate completely unscrupulously across everything they can get their hands on when it comes to committing crime, and unfortunately a large part of it also has to do with the fact that many gang members have a different origin than Danish, and that gives this problem an extra dimension. That is also why we continue to beat down gang crime very, very hard. For the reasons given by the Minister for Justice and for the reasons given, we cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution as it stands, but we think it is good that we should clarify the issue of state compensation for gang members.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419105004	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur, and thank you for preparing for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419105019	Thank you for that and thank you to the Conservatives for bringing this proposal forward. A gang criminal who is wronged, for example. When attacked by another gang criminal, the proposal says that he should not be entitled to compensation for tort. So torture compensation is the kind of compensation you get when you can't prove a loss. I therefore do not see exactly why the proposal does not include general compensation. So, whoever is attacked and injured on arms and legs and clothes, etc., is entitled to compensation. Tort is of course concerned with the psychological damage and why it should only concern it. I do not see that at first sight. But I understand the background very well, namely that we have accepted the company we have come in and must expect what else comes out of it. So in this way I would say that we in the Left can support the proposal, but would like it to be extended to include general compensation for the things that can be documented, as I mentioned earlier. It is true, as the Minister of Justice says, that when we regulate here, we regulate the relationship between two citizens, namely the cause of injury and the victim, and this is the result of the liability law. But I guess there's nothing to suggest that in this Parliament we can't change the liability law that regulates the responsibility between two citizens. The law in question has a lot of provisions on loss of earnings, lasting but loss of earning capacity, etc., and it has provisions to reduce compensation, for example for loss of earning capacity when you are over 30 years of age, etc. etc. So of course we can also change the requirement we are dealing with here if we want to. When we are then in the process, the Minister for Justice is right to say that we can at least as well amend the other relevant law, namely the victim compensation law. That's the law that says that if the perpetrator can't pay, then the state has to pay. And the fact that the state is going to pay gang criminals, whether it be compensation or torture, is, I think, contrary to what anyone in this room thinks. So summa summarum, I'd say we won't accept gangs. To the extent that we can limit their demands, and perhaps in particular the requirements they have in relation to the state, this must indeed be done as soon as possible. So much thank you to the Conservatives for the proposal. It may well be that, as the Minister of Justice said, there are technicalities that need to be changed in this regard, in relation to whether it is the liability law or it is the victim compensation law that needs to be amended or whether it is both. But at least we're ready for it. I can guarantee that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419105301	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you for preparing for the next rapporteur and the next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. It's sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419105321	There is no doubt that we must make it as difficult as it is possible to be a member of a gang. Why gang boys should have any compensation at our courts, we do not understand anything at all in the Danish People's Party. If they've been exposed to something, yes, it's their own responsibility. They have joined the gang of which they are members. They have resigned from society's normal rules and should therefore not benefit from society's normal rules. So please let the replacements go for purposes other than these individuals in the gangs. I would also like to say that, of course, we are on the proposal that has been made today by the Conservative People's Party. It is a step in the right direction. However, it goes without saying that it should not just be in connection with detention, and here we are in complete agreement with Mr Tugendhat. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left, who asks: why should we not take this to the detriment of compensations in all kinds of cases relating to gangs? Of course, when it comes to compensation for victims, we also think that the possibility of compensation should be removed. It is all very well for the Minister of Justice to do so, but why will the government and why will the Socialists not support this proposal in general as far as gangs are concerned? I don't understand any of that. I think it causes a lot of anger out there among the Danes when you see these gang conflicts, where they shoot at each other and it's really just about shitty mammon, as much money in the box as possible in the shortest possible time regardless of the victims, and then some people get compensation because they've been hurt or because they've somehow been exposed to something that they just didn't think was so good. This is untenable, and it is one of the things that we in Parliament have to take action on. Unfortunately, an industry has developed in which defence lawyers are moving towards doing everything for their clients. This may not be so surprising, but it also means that some of these central gang members get really big compensations because there may well be things and cases that they can complain about and where they can get money from the government. So it is an automatic that has been taught, and it is an automatic that we must take action against if we can at all, and there is this Conservative proposal one step along the way. It's not enough, but it's a step on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419105556	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and that is only from Mr Seligman's point of view. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419105602	That was because the rapporteur was talking about problematizing defence lawyers and their work. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur thinks that it is problematic that defence lawyers should do everything possible to protect the interests of their clients.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419105621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419105622	That, of course, is not a problem. I could find examples where I would say that we are going too far here, using society's design so far as it is concerned, that it is outrageous and that it is contrary to the intention we had when we made the legislation at Christiansborg. But the real culprit is Christiansborg, it is the legislators, and it is the government if you do not want to change things. There it is our task now, born of this proposal, to sit down and make rules that make it impossible to exploit the system, because it offends many people, and we cannot live with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419105656	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419105657	So we fully agree that it is a fundamental principle of law that you have access to a defender and that, of course, this defender is doing everything to protect the interests of his client and that this is how it is done in a community governed by the rule of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419105713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419105714	We fully agree that you have the right to a defence lawyer and that you have the right to receive the best possible treatment within the framework of the legislation. But as I can just listen to sir... Kristian Hegaard and I have also discussed this many times with people and representatives of the Radical Left, we probably do not entirely agree on whether defence lawyers should then go as far as they do in some cases, i.e. where in the eyes of the people you have an industry where you simply do much more than we would generally say you should do, among other things. to get replacements. It is something that offends us who have made the legislation in here, where people who have really got in trouble want to be compensated. And then there are people who are in these gangs who make a lot of money through drug sales and the like, who get access to compensations. It's wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419105807	The next brief remark is from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419105810	Thank you. My question is a little in the same direction as Mr. Kristian Hegaards. I am a little surprised that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party is talking about an industry among defence lawyers. I mean, it's such in a community of law that you have the right to a defense attorney. It is like part of the entire legal system we have built up, I would say to Mr. Peter Skaarup. That is why I simply need the Danish People's Party to elaborate on what is meant by an industry of defence lawyers. That is what we others call the rule of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419105843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419105844	I can explain that, because if it is not Mrs Rosa Lund's knowledge, then I can tell you about it here: some of the central gang members, both in biker circles, but not least in immigrant gangs, who are currently the dominant ones, have certain defence lawyers who they use. And the defense lawyers have a pressed calendar, which means that you often have problems within the judicial system in order to be able to set dates for when such legal actions are to take place. You like it or you don't like it. I don't like it. I think it's awful. Because I am starting from the fact that our legal system must operate in such a way that, of course, you have access to a lawyer, but it should not be the case that it slows down in order to deal with matters quickly. And there you often speculate that you drag things out of hand, and I think that's a bad thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419105949	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419105950	What I find uncomfortable is when there are politicians on Parliament's platform accusing defence lawyers, who are actually just doing their job, of having to drag things out. I think it is a bit conspiratorial, I would say to Mr. Peter Skaarup. I still don't understand how it was supposed to be an industry to drag things out. We have just made legislation in here about what defence lawyers may and may not do to their clients what they may hand over by, for example. gifts. It has, of course, been a major debate in this House a few years ago, when we have actually produced a proper, I think, sensible set of rules. I completely disagree with the idea that there should be an industry and I do not see how it should be an industry at all that Mr. Peter Skaarup and Dansk Folkeparti stand and attach all kinds of things to defence lawyers, for which there is no evidence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419110040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419110045	It may be that we need to spend a little more time on it, Mrs Rosa Lund and I, where I can brief a little bit more than I have time for here on Parliament's platform. But I do not think it can be Mrs Rosa Lund unaware that we have extremely long waiting times in our legal system. It takes an extremely long time, and there are many reasons for this. That is why we must have the chain of criminal proceedings, as we call it with a fine expression, looked at in the seams. And one of the problems, one of the challenges, is that gang criminals and them, many of them, have the same defense lawyers who live well on this system. And that with the same defense lawyers often means that cases can be difficult to get programmed. I guess it can't be Mrs. Rosa Lund unknown.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419110126	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur in this round. And thank you for getting ready for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419110159	Thank you. I shall read out the following speech from our legal rapporteur Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, who cannot be here today: in the SF we can understand the intention behind the proposal, namely that when you have chosen a gang criminal lifestyle, we owe nothing to the gang members who fight in the streets, shoot, blackmail and commit serious crime. That is why they must also live with the consequences of the choices they have made as criminals. After all, we also wanted the gang criminals to lay down their activities because they have a negative impact on the rest of society. We are quite tired of how much resources we need in this area: police, courts, prisons. Virtually any penalty screw has been tightened up and many new tools have been given to the police in the fight against the consequences of gang criminals' activities on our society. Just a little bit, it's gonna help. However, when we do not support the proposal to take the toll off gang criminals who are attacked by other gang criminals, it is because we have to separate things. For us, it is a matter of legal certainty, i.e. no distinction is made between victims. Even if, in principle, you are putting yourself at risk with a criminal lifestyle and risk being attacked, shot at or whatever it may be, you are still a victim when it happens. We would like to discuss the palette of tools in relation to gang crime, but we will not say yes to this. We do not want to make any distinction between victims and then we do not believe in the prevention of them either. We believe that most gang criminals do not run and count on the prospect of tort reimbursement when they commit their criminal acts. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419110338	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419110410	Thank you for the floor, President. Gang crime creates insecurity and insecurity. It disrupts public order, and it must be minimized and reduced as much as possible, because gang crime must be stopped. Then it is proposed here that instead of paying compensation to another gang criminal, if it is wronged, it should instead be paid to a fund. And on the part of the Radical Left, we are probably questioning whether it makes the big difference in relation to the gang crime committed, whether the compensation paid is paid to one place or another. However, the fundamental intention and the fundamental approach to reducing crime and, in particular, gang crime, we are in complete agreement on this. For the consequences of an organized and seduced crime picture, such as gang crime, where you fight for street corners, fight every square metre, is that it causes disruption of public order, and some may not dare move outside in the areas where it is taking place. But if this motion for a resolution is the answer to that, then we have doubts. However, I would like to thank the Conservatives for taking an interest, like other parliamentary parties, in the issue of gang crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419110550	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There is no wish for short remarks to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419110611	As we understand from the comments on this motion for a resolution, the intention is to ensure the safety and security of our citizens. It's hard to disagree with. But I do not really know whether I will be more or less comfortable when it comes to the question of whether a person is entitled to compensation or not. We have worked hard in here on the part of Christiansborg to get rid of gang crime, and some of the things that have been done make a lot of sense and have a good effect on preventing gang crime. Other things that have been implemented from in here do not really make sense and have absolutely no effect. And I am afraid that this resolution falls into the last category. I don't think most organized criminals count into their budgets, that if they provoke the right person, they can just score $30,000. Indemnification for it. Often it makes no sense at all to have money on the account of these people, as their public debt is often huge. It is punishments in the criminal code and a focused police effort to end gang crime. Changing the rules of tort, I don't think will affect gang crime at all. It would be nice if that were the case, because then I think we should go through with it today, but unfortunately I do not think it is this proposal that will prevent gang crime or stop the gang war that is more or less still going on. On the other hand, this proposal affects our community of law, and I do not think it is in a good way. We can agree that as the leader of a gang you are not any sympathetic person at all, but there are many who might fall under this proposal, which may not really be part of a gang. They may be very young people who, as a result of their associations, are almost forced in and have to do things they do not want to do. Therefore, it is important that we have good prevention and that we have good exit programmes so that we can help these young people out of the gangs again. Unfortunately, implementing a proposal that deprives people of their rights is not helping to get people out of the gangs. In fact, we have deprived gang criminals of many rights, among others. The right to choose its own defense attorney, and it has, like unfortunately, not stopped the gang war. So I think we should try to go down a different path than this, to deprive people of rights when we want to stop gang crime. On the contrary, I believe that it helps to push people beyond the edge and to where it is really difficult to get back on track and become part of society. When you commit a crime, you have to be punished, there is no doubt about that. That is the system we have today. But you should not continue to be punished because you have committed a crime at some point. That is also the system we have today, that is, that we are not punished forever. The former gang leader Nedim Yasar was killed many years after he stepped out of the gang environment. He studied as a teacher, and he wanted to help other criminally threatened and vulnerable young people, so that they should not have the same upbringing as he had himself. Let's say he wasn't dead, someone had been seriously hurt. That would mean that he would not be entitled to compensation because he had put himself in that situation. It was an estimated risk, it is believed, and his past mistakes would still have to punish him today. We in the Enhedslist think this is not fair and we think it is good that we have a system in which we are not punished for our crimes forever. When you've endured your punishment, you're done being a criminal. That is why Enhedslisten cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419110954	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens. Welcome to Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419111026	I just have to say quite clearly: my sympathy for gang criminals may lie in a very small place, it is almost non-existent. That is why we also think this proposal is sensible, because of course we should not be able to receive compensation for torture when we open our eyes to join a criminal gang; it gives itself in the sense of the word. The fact that the party responsible must continue to pay for this and that this amount should then be added to a charitable fund, which, for example, works to reduce violence, is also very good. Once again, I have to say that we are also faced with these problems on the basis of a totally misguided immigration policy when we see that over one in four of the registered gang members are non-Western descendants. But that is why, of course, they should not be able to come when they have actively chosen this criminal career, subsequently and were able to receive a tort allowance. That goes without saying, and that is why we also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419111143	Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you for preparing for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419111201	Then I stand here again as the last of the rapporteurs and find that, to everyone's surprise, it turns out that all parties in the Folketing are against gang crime. Who would have thought that? So is the Liberal Alliance; we are also against gang crime. This does not mean that we think this resolution is a good one, because we see some problems with it. We see the problem that if a gang criminal commits violence or anything else that can cause the person to whom he is liable to receive compensation for torture, and if the other person who is to receive compensation for torture is a member of a gang, then the gang criminal suddenly does not have to pay compensation for torture. So this is less punishment for the gang criminal than what they have today, I understand. We cannot support that. We also see some other problems, for there are gang crimes in various forms. For example: the 17-year-old boy, who has started a gang criminal career acting as a courier with hash for a gang, could not receive tort compensation if he was subjected to serious violence by a member of another gang? Why wouldn't he? The fact that he is now riding hashish in a gang is not meant to mean that he also deserves no compensation for tort, that is, because a competing gang decides to expose him to serious violence? I would also like to point out, like Mrs Lund, that I do not see how this proposal can deal with the fact that some people sometimes choose to leave gangs. Some of those people have been convicted of gang activities in the past, and if leaving the gang had to trigger the gang being so angry with the gang leaving the gang that they are doing things against the exit member that could justify tort reimbursement, then you cannot get it because you have been a criminal in the past. So even if you are now subjected to violence because you are leaving the gang, you do not have the same rights to compensation for torture as other victims of violence. So I see some problems in this resolution and that is why we are not going to vote in favour of it. This does not mean that the Liberal Alliance is not opposed to gang crime, we are. Evidently you have to say this every time you deal with legal policy, that is to say, that you are against crime. We are also opposed to crime • much against crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419111511	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then the rapporteur's line is almost complete, because now it is the rapporteur for the proposers who is to speak, and that is Mr Beazley's position. Mads Andersen from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419111531	Thank you for that and thank you for a good round of rapporteurs. I'm just gonna get used to this because there's a lot of understanding about your proposal, but not necessarily action behind it. It must be a bit like being in town, a girl thinks you're nice, but not necessarily think you are so I've never tried that. No, of course it's just for fun. What I want to say is that I am actually listening to the Minister for Justice and it is also from the Minister for Justice that we can look towards a gang package IV, or whatever we have come to, to address this problem in general. Of course, we fully acknowledge that, and we welcome it. But I think it is also important to stress that this proposal has not at any time said that it should be so square that it cannot be looked at on a case-by-case basis. It has also been said that there may well be differences in whether you have been a gang member, have come out of the gang environment and, moreover, have gone through various things to get out of it and therefore should not have to pay for it if you get there one day or if you are a gang member. However, it is also important to say that we are just proposing to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen that the criminal, that is, the perpetrator, still has to pay tort, but just to a charitable fund that can actually go in and remedy some other things and for example. support victims of violence. But I must also admit that when I found out that as a gang member you can actually get tort reimbursement, I was falling off the chair. I'm from Køge. It's not the last time you're gonna hear me say it. And I'm proud of that, but unfortunately it's also an area that's been plagued with a lot of gang crime. That's why I was about to fall out of the chair when I read this about the fact that as a gang member you can actually get tort compensation. I actually feel that is quite absurd. There has to be some common sense in the way we think about this with compensation. A young girl is raped, the rapist is sentenced and, of course, has to pay a large tort allowance to her; a flasher is convicted of having a child who has been blemished, and of course the child receives a large tort allowance; a gang member ends up in a fight with a rival gang and will now receive compensation for the damage done to him. I would go so far as to say that as a gang member, even if you are wholly or partly organised criminal, you work according to what we must call a calculated risk. If you live by selling drugs, blackmailing other people or making violent attacks, there is usually a pretty great chance that you may be exposed to retaliatory action or a counterattack, and then, in our opinion, you do not have the right to an economic Band-Aid on the wound. There are, of course, a whole series of middle bills in this, which is why I am, of course, pleased that a large part of the Danish Parliament's parties would like to be involved in discussing it further. The most important thing in this is, as I said before, that the compensation still has to be paid, but not from criminal to criminal, but in return to a charitable fund that can go in and help and work to reduce violence. Of course, we in the Conservative People's Party hope that we can get support for the proposal in the first place, it sounded like it was a little shit but that we can also continue the discussions and that the Minister of Justice gets a lot of work started as soon as possible, which can make it even more difficult to be a gang member in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419111850	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, first from Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419111855	Now the rapporteur himself brought up rape. If I understand the Conservative proposal correctly, does it not say that if a female gang member is raped by another gang member, there should be no compensation for torture to the female gang member?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419111915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419111918	As I think I said, it is important for us to think on a case-by-case basis and that it is not necessarily just black or white. This is also one of the points we would like to make in further discussions with Parliament's parties, because there are, of course, some things in the example that Mrs Rosa Lund gave us about Nedim Yasar who can fall a little outside the dial and where, of course, you have to go in and look at it a little more on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419111941	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419111943	Well, that doesn't sound very reassuring, does it, on a case-by-case basis? I also think it makes it a little difficult to do this. Then I have another example: A young 16-year-old begins his gang career as a hashbud for a gang, and in this context the 16-year-old is grossly beaten and lies on the brink of death by members of a competing gang who also want to sell the hash area. Then I understand the Conservative proposal that the 16-year-old who has started his gang career, that is to say not to receive compensation for torture.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419112018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419112021	After all, we have just made this reservation, which we write, of particularly serious cases, so that we can take that kind of example into account. It shouldn't be either-or in the way that if you get beaten up and beaten to pieces at the age of 16, you can't get tort compensation because you've snuck to a gang. That is precisely why we have made that reservation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419112038	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419112041	Yes, these are interesting questions from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, and interesting answers. Now we have just dealt with another resolution on domination violence. I assume it should not be an attenuating circumstance that you are a gang member if you are exposed to such things. I'd like to ask you something else. It is said here that the compensation can be paid to a fund instead of the victim. How many gang members do the Conservative rapporteur think will seek compensation if it does not concern the gang member himself, but the money should instead belong to a fund?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419112113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419112115	This is a good question and, of course, one of the things that several rapporteurs have also mentioned may in fact not end up meaning so much for the fund that could be able to get the money. This means that it is still important to say in principle: it simply cannot be right for criminals to be able to obtain compensation for torture because they have been attacked in an otherwise criminal environment in which they live and have made crime their way of life.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419112143	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419112145	Yes, the latter is completely outside the proposal here. And welcome, by the way. In fact, I have not signed that this is the first time I have seen the rapporteur in this Chamber, so I would just like to welcome the parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419112159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419112201	Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419112206	There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur, and thank you for preparing for the next proposal, because no one else has asked to speak here. That is why the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419112226	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419112246	Thank you to the Conservative People's Party for tabling the motion for a resolution. By the end of this year, the proposers require the government to table a bill which increases the penalty by 50%. for threats where the threat is due to the victim's attachment or apostasy from a religion. I have pointed out on previous occasions how important it is that we in Denmark have the right to speak and think and write as we please. Freedom of expression is something very special in our society. We have fought hard to reach this point, and we must never take our freedom of expression for granted. The government therefore also agrees with the intentions behind the Conservative motion for a resolution, namely that we must crack down on threats aimed at preventing citizens from using their freedom of expression. This is particularly true when the threats arise from the fact that the person concerned belongs to or has chosen to leave a particular religion. It is simply reprehensible to try to threaten people to remain silent on such issues. That is why I am also pleased that the sharpening of the penalty for threats to freedom of expression is one of the measures included in the multiannual agreement on the police and prosecution economy, an agreement of which the Conservative People's Party is, moreover, a part. Against this background, the government expects to put forward a bill at the beginning of the next assembly to tighten up the penalties for threats aimed at preventing a citizen from using his or her freedom of expression. The proposal will therefore also cover cases where a threat is intended to prevent a person from expressing himself publicly about his or her association with or apostasy from a religion. We have agreed in the multi-year agreement that the penalty for threats to freedom of expression will be implemented by doubling the level of punishment in relation to the penalty that would otherwise be imposed by the courts for similar threats. The government and the parties will therefore go further than what is being proposed here, i.e. to increase the penalty by 100 per cent. against the 50% proposed in the motion for a resolution. And, of course, I hope that the Conservative People's Party will agree to that. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. However, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for highlighting the importance of freedom of expression, which is, of course, absolutely essential for the democracy in which we live, and that is one of the reasons why we have decided so broadly to double the level of punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419112521	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no brief remarks to the Minister of Justice. Thank you for preparing for the start of the rapporteur's series. The first rapporteur in the rapporteur's line is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419112548	Thank you. Freedom of speech is under constant pressure. Threats directed at individuals because of their opinions, opinions or association with religion have unfortunately become a permanent part of the public debate. The threats are not only a problem for the person to whom they are directed, but the threats become a problem for the general freedom of expression, as this may lead to others completely refraining from taking part in the public debate. This is ultimately a democratic problem. That is what the resolution we are discussing here says, and it is difficult to disagree with it. Of course, we agree with that. No one should threaten others from taking part in the public debate. That is why it is also surprising that Conservatives are maintaining this motion for a resolution. We in the Social Democratic Party have previously supported a similar proposal from the SF. We, together with the Conservative People's Party, have concluded a police agreement shortly before Christmas which provides for a tougher penalty than what the motion for a resolution proposes here. So unless the purpose of this motion for a resolution is not to double the penalty, it is to be attributed 50% only. On top, yes, so it can make sense. Otherwise, however, I have been a little puzzled as to why this motion for a resolution was maintained. Having said that, this is just another opportunity to mark what we actually did together in the police agreement, namely that we will not accept that some threaten anyone else. Unfortunately, we see an increasing tendency for people to refrain from taking part in the public debate, to refrain from expressing themselves, including on social media, not only because the tone is harsh, but also because of threats. It can be very, very serious. This is something that everyone who often takes part in the debate unfortunately has to live with as a very negative by-product. But it can also affect people who may speak less, but who have a very violent and unpleasant experience. At the end of the day, these threats and harassment can be very serious, and that is why we need to look at it very seriously. That is what we have done, including with the police agreement that has been concluded. So, in order not to weaken what we have agreed with each other, together with the Conservative People's Party, the Social Democrats cannot support the resolution as it stands here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419112809	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419112825	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Conservative People's Party for presenting the proposal here. I see that the proposal concerns an increase in the penalty for threats to freedom of expression, where the threat is due to religion. I would now go as far as to say that, in my view, it is not essential that it be religion. In general, I think we have reached a place where freedom of expression is threatened. Among other things, it is. through the debate on social media. We see time and time again in any party that people refrain from taking part in the debate for fear of being pissed off on the media. We simply need a tightening-up when we reach the point where there are regular threats and, as I said, that we have got platforms in the social media, made it somewhat easier, I just have to promise to get rid of your anger than when you had to write a letter, put it in an envelope, put stamp on it and go to the mailbox. It wasn't so bad to say it out loud. But this is obviously a question of threats to religion. That is, of course, a small amount of what I was talking about, and we can of course agree with that. I am pleased to note that the Minister for Justice will make proposals later, next season, to tighten up the penalties in this area. I am absolutely convinced that this has a preventive effect, so I shall look forward to it. However, I noticed to my horror that there are percentages and, as I said earlier from this platform, this is a grateful way of operating, for an increase of 100 per cent. of 0 is probably still gone 0. That was said in a rather figurative sense, but the essence is that I would like to see us consistently operating with normal penalties here. After all, we have sky-wide penalties which are never used, but the courts usually have the praise that the courts have to comply with the normal penalties adopted by the Folketing, and that is the normal punishment of days that I would like the government to come along with, but we must obviously wait until the autumn to get that. So for the time being, there is a connection with Conservatives' proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419113044	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and so I can welcome the next rapporteur. This is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419113106	There is no doubt that we need to have an extremely high ceiling in the political debate, and we need to have an extremely high ceiling in relation to the fact that we can also be allowed to express ourselves in relation to a religion that we think goes too far, a politician that goes too far or whatever. We must have the opportunity to do so, and we must have such a high ceiling that we too can be offended and offended and all sorts of other things. Where the chain jumps off sometimes, if you come up with pure threats to people, that is, threats of fire and fire. It may be violence, it may be killing, or it may be similar conditions. If you actually do that to a person, there must be woodfalls, and we do not ensure that enough today. We are in this situation, and it is a good proposal that has come from the Conservatives, that there are situations in our small society where many people do not dare express themselves because of it. You feel threatened by other people and you feel that it is too hard to be in the debate because there are threats out there. And when we set the dividing line for threats, for example. Threats of violence, we also need to take serious action if threats are actually made, because there is a fear out there that they are being taken seriously. That is why it is important that we have sufficiently high penalties in this area, so that there is a deterrent effect on it. We also need to ensure that the penalties that we are giving and the efforts that the police are also making in this area are sufficiently effective, and we have to say there is a great deal out there with the emergence of social media that the police do not get caught or followed up on and that they simply do not have the resources to do, and so there is a great deal out there that is difficult to deal with for the individual citizen, and that is why there are some who do not. We cannot really be aware that there are people who do not participate in the public debate because there are so many threats running around, so we have to have the police not just take care of crime on the street, when one person hits another or there are bar fights or killings or violence or the like, but we also have to have the police in gear when it comes to the things that are going on the Internet and on social media, because it is just as serious for those who suffer as if it were going on the street. So we are in the situation that improvements are needed. There are some things happening, but things are going too slowly, and there is our view in the Danish People's Party that we have an excellent proposal here today, because of course we must preserve our fine freedom of expression and like to punish the crackdowns on freedom of expression with high penalties. So there are positive vibrations here from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419113410	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Halime Oguz. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419113426	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the Conservative People's Party for raising this debate. I am very pleased that we are taking this debate because I believe that freedom of expression is the most valuable and the most important foundation in our society. In the SF we ourselves tabled a motion for a resolution in the autumn on doubling the penalty, which we have also included in the police conciliation, and we therefore see no reason to adopt a proposal on which we have already agreed in the police conciliation. Against this background, I can say that the SF cannot support the motion for a resolution, especially because it undermines the agreement we have already reached. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419113520	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes forward, and that is Mr Beazley. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419113634	Thank you for the floor, President. The Conservative People's Party is proposing here to tighten up the penalties for threatening others in the use of their freedom of expression. Freedom of expression is one of our fundamental freedoms. The right to express itself is a central part of our democracy, that everyone can speak out, that no one is oppressed for expressing himself, and it is remarkable that in their report the Freedom of expression Commission raises concerns about particular threats to others for the use of their freedom of expression. We also see a massive hate speech on social media, in the comments fields, which I think cause many people to refrain from taking part in the debate and expressing themselves, and as I like to say, sometimes you can become a little envious of the Minister of Justice, who is not on social media. For it is a fundamental premise for our freedom of expression that no one should be threatened to refrain from using his freedom of expression, that no one should be threatened to remain silent, that no one should see that one's workplace is, for example, contacted with claims of one or the other affiliation. Being confronted with it by your employer can give you the feeling of being intimidated and supervised and that there are restrictions on freedom of expression. For if you are happy with your job, it gives you great uncertainty to be called for an interview by your employer because others have turned to the use of your freedom of expression. You shouldn't have that feeling in your stomach. In this context, we, as elected representatives, also have an important role to play in how we talk to each other and, above all, talk to others. We must be good examples, even though the debate can sometimes go high, and so must it. That is why the Radical Left is pleased that in the police conciliation we have dealt with this issue thoroughly and notes that a concrete legislative proposal will be put forward in this respect. But first of all, I would like to thank the Conservative People's Party for focusing on tightening up the penalties for threatening others in the use of their freedom of expression. The fundamental intention of the Radical Left is entirely in agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419113922	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no brief comments to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419113939	Thank you. Unfortunately, I believe that there are many of us in this Chamber who have tried to be physically and over the Internet. We have been threatened because there are people who believe that our political positions are wrong, we have been threatened on the basis of our gender, on the basis of our health status here I can at least speak for myself ethnicity, sexuality etc. with the sole aim of making us refrain from taking part in the political debate. Unfortunately, we're not unique inside this hall. There are very many people who are being threatened, especially in the digital world, on the basis of their very opinions, with the very purpose of making them refrain from participating in the public debate, and this is a major democratic problem. When people are threatened, either because they have taken part in a debate or because they have walked down the street, we run the risk that they will refrain from taking part in future debates. We run the risk that a large proportion of the population will simply be deprived of their democratic voice because others are threatening them. That is why it is also a very important focus when we talk about threats, because threats to people's freedom of expression, whatever their background, are not in order and are a major threat to our democracy. Fortunately, today we have an opportunity in the legislation to punish threats. There is a clear signal in the legislation that this is not acceptable behaviour and you can have up to two years in prison. But the digital reality, which we have also talked about earlier today, has overtaken the Danish penal code. We have freedom of expression in Denmark, and fortunately it is, I would say, very far-reaching, but there are a lot of people on the Internet who unfortunately find it very difficult to see where the borders are going. Bad language and serious threats to life and health, but also minor threats such as threatening to get people fired, are unfortunately not rare in Denmark. In general, I think that the focus on hatecrimes should be greater, and I fear that this is something we have discussed before, that there are many who, based on their very skin color or their sexuality, are threatened to refrain from taking part in the public debate. Unfortunately, however, we are also seeing public employees being threatened to refrain from taking part in the public debate, and this is a serious problem. We must ensure that the freedom of expression of public employees is guaranteed, and it may be that it exists formally, but in fact it is enormously limited. We cannot, for example, have police officers taking part in debates on Facebook as individuals and then risking employment sanctions or relocations, because some people believe that it is legitimate to contact employers of public employees in order to prevent them from taking part in the public debate. As our Minister of Justice has said in an answer, police staff, like other public servants, have extensive freedom of expression. This means that, as a rule, they cannot be dismissed, downgraded or otherwise faced with negative consequences on the job due to statements they make on their own behalf. Unfortunately, we have just seen isolated cases where a single police officer has been transferred precisely on the basis of having participated in the public debate, and I think this is very serious and a huge problem for our freedom of expression. We must ensure that everyone can take part in the public debate, and that is why I am not the first to highlight the police conciliation, which was, of course, the Enhedslisten's first police conciliation, in which we also have a better guarantee of freedom of expression for all of us. That is why we are very much looking forward to the legislative proposal put forward by the Ministry of Justice on the basis of the police settlement, and that is also why we cannot support this motion for a resolution. In general, however, we think it is very good and very important that we continue to have a debate on how best to guarantee freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419114353	Thanks to Rosa Lund. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419114358	It is because so much is said about freedom of expression in employment in different places and that all people have freedom of expression, even when they are employed in different places. But in the real world you do not have a right to a job, and if the things you say in public make your job difficult, then the employer also has a legitimate interest in setting limits. If a primary school teacher says things that are very unfavorable about people from the Enhedslisten... things that are very cross-border, and not just that they are idiots or too stupid or something, but things that are even worse, it can set some limits in relation to whether parents of children in the class may feel that they are welcome there with that teacher. There are, of course, all kinds of ways of making your work more difficult with public statements and, of course, the employer has an interest in setting limits, and that is also a legitimate interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419114502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419114504	That is precisely why we need to ensure the freedom of expression of public employees in particular. Mr. Ole Birk Olesen saw not, I can look at him, but we mean that in the Enhedslisten, and we don't actually think so, sir. Ole Birk Olesen says it's safe today. I fully agree that, of course, there can be limits, and of course the core of freedom of expression is that it applies to all of us, and therefore there will be positions that conflict with each other. It is like part of our common set of rules, but I do not think it should be the case that a primary school teacher cannot say in private that they think that people from the Enhedslisten are some worse bandits or whatever it might be. I can't think of anything, but I can read from my facebook page or anything, if you need to hear anything that's harsher, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. But I don't want that to affect the person's job.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419114547	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419114549	In other words, it is not the case that public employees have more rights than private employees, and if they express themselves publicly in such a way as to make your work more difficult, then you do not have the right to have that work in the future. If e.g. a teacher says that Muslims are some worse some, that they are really terrible, and if this teacher has seven Muslim children in the class and those phrases make it difficult to deal with children, then it must be a concrete assessment by the employer whether the speech is so bad that the employment simply cannot be done anymore. It could also be Jews, it could be disabled, or it could be women, it could be anything. It is an example of having freedom of expression, but that you do not have the right to keep your job if it becomes too difficult because you have spoken negatively about those you have to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419114644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419114646	There is, of course, a very great difference between what I think is said in official terms or whether it is said in private. I think there is, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. I think it is important that the freedom of expression of public servants is guaranteed; that it is ensured that they can interfere in the political debate when they are not at work, and we have unfortunately seen examples of this that they cannot. Unfortunately, we have seen examples of policemen interfering in the public debate being subjected to threats and being subjected to someone calling their employer. It's okay, sir. It's okay. It's okay. Ole Birk Olesen thinks it is okay, but we do not think so in the Enhedslisten, and we think it should be ensured in the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419114721	Thank you, Mrs Lund, for the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, and then it has become the turn of the new citizens. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419114749	We must safeguard freedom of expression in Denmark, because it is massively under pressure. We must be able to say what we want; we must be able to express ourselves freely without, for example, being affected by the so-called racism clause. Freedom of speech must not be kidnapped by threats or suppressed by the violent veto. There must be no threat of silence. Unfortunately, this proposal is also an expiry of what we can call the very misguided immigration policy, which I have mentioned earlier and which has been implemented over the past many decades. It is an alien policy that has opened the floodgates to massive quantities mainly from Muslim countries. So the Danes live with the consequences of every day. I myself have experienced massive threats because I am a critic of Islam. Many people experience as I do threats because, for example, they express themselves freely about the threat of Islam. Some stay away from the public debate precisely in order to avoid receiving threats. And that is not how it should be in Denmark. We are continuing to fight in New Citizen to solve foreign policy from scratch, so that Denmark can once again become a free and secure country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419114917	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419114941	Thank you. We think that there is a need for tougher penalties for people who threaten others not to use their freedom of expression, because this is not only a threat to the individual, it is also suitable for making public debate in general insecure, not only for those who are exposed to the threat, but also for everyone else. This leads people to hold back from the public debate, which is why it is not only a crime against the individual, but against the whole of society as such, which cannot develop with openness in a democratic conversation for the benefit of all. So we support the need for tougher penalties for threats to people who use their freedom of expression. We also support what the parties have agreed in the police conciliation that this should be done by doubling the penalties. We think this is better than an increase in the penalty by 50%. That is why we will vote in favour of that bill when it comes in due course. We think this is better than this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419115051	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and so I am now in a position to give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is Mr Seligman. Mads Andersen from the Conservative People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419115113	Thank you. I don't think anyone's ever read a 31-page police settlement through as fast as I've just done it down in my place. It can of course also be related to the fact that I was not in the Folketing at the time. That can be said very simply. We have all just spoken in favour of our freedom of expression and its preservation, and it is a completely fundamental part of our democratic society and the constitution that we all agree to abide by when we start in here. We uphold our free right to speak and write about what we want, even when it is critical, and there are societies in the world that are far from having the freedom to use the power of the word and what comes with it. Over the past ten years, the public debate has developed very much, especially the social media have given a whole new room for debate, and the tone has certainly become really tough. Many of us here also feel that in our daily lives when we express our opinions. The last week, for example, I am. even been called, stupid, traitor and immature welcome in the Danish Parliament, Mads, but it is part of our freedom of expression. It must never mean that we are silent, nor must religious debaters be silent when they have something to say, whether it is their religion or a religion they are no longer part of. In the harshest examples in Denmark, example critics of Islam have been under police protection for several years because of the threat they have posed to the things they have been saying. But as the Minister for Justice began by saying, there's a part of this that definitely talks with the police settlement, and what you just didn't know was that of course I'm just ahead of my time, so right now I'm proposing to put 50 percent. On top of the bill that comes in the autumn. No, of course it was just a little joke. Of course, we in the Conservative People's Party hope to be able to support the proposal from the Minister for Justice when it comes, and we look forward to the debate that remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419115303	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I shall now suspend the sitting so that a lunch break can be held. The meeting will start again at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419130014	The sitting is resumed. The debate is open. First, we must welcome the Minister of Justice. The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419130052	I'm sorry, I'm used to the usual process. It's not that often we have a bill from private individuals. Thank you for the floor and thank you to Mrs Inger Løjberg for a well-drafted legislative proposal. One of the things that is really important in Denmark is that we have public access to justice. I do not think there are any members of parliament who question the value of it. That is why we must also say that the intentions behind this bill are correct. The fact that the government is unable to support the bill is due to the fact that, in my opinion, the proposal raises serious and fundamental concerns, to which I shall return shortly. As the rules currently stand, the court in criminal proceedings may exceptionally and on a case-by-case basis authorise the transmission of sound and image. The same applies when, as in this case, there is something as rare as criminal proceedings that the Court of First Instance is dealing with. When judgment was given on 22 June 1995 in the impeachment case against former Minister of Justice Erik Ninn-Hansen, the Danes could follow TV and radio. I think a lot of people still remember. At the time, in other words, there is a certain space for the right to allow the transmission of sound and image. However, Mrs Inger Løjberg's bill suggests that the rules on the transmission of sound and image from the Court of First Instance should be reversed so that the Court of First Instance will have to actively prohibit transmission from the hearings rather than, on the basis of a specific assessment, be able to grant permission. At the same time, the proposal means that it is only exceptional and, on specific grounds, that the Court of First Instance must prohibit transmission. I understand from the proposal that the proposer wants all citizens to be given equal opportunities to follow the meetings of the Court of Justice, no matter where they live in the country. This must be done by giving all interested parties the opportunity to attend the television sessions. It is, as I said at the outset, from an immediate point of view, a good intention indeed. As a citizen, you could be curious about getting an insight into the very concrete work of the Court of Justice. Having said that, there are three major reasons why the government does not support the proposal. First of all, the proposal violates the fundamental principle that a witness may not attend the testimony of the accused or other witnesses until the witness has given his/her own testimony. If the principle is waived, witnesses may be deliberately or unconsciously influenced by the explanations of others. In this respect, I think there is reason to point out that, in many criminal proceedings, evidence is an absolutely central proof, which is often crucial to the court's assessment of whether a conviction should be made or whether an acquittal should take place. Already because a situation should not be created where witnesses are given the opportunity to attend the statement of the accused or other witnesses, access to the sound and image of the Court of First Instance should not be the starting point, as the proposal suggests. It is simply a question of legal certainty, and I am not prepared to compromise on it, even in order to take account of the public interest in this matter, which is naturally and quite understandable. Secondly, the proposed impeachment is a deeply serious event for all parties involved and for society as such. I think everyone here is aware of what spinning cameras and turned on microphones do to the mood of a room and how they can steal people's focus and attention and get people to change behaviour, especially in relation to people who are not media-accustomed in the way we are, but who are experiencing this extra pressure. In my view, the attention of the Court of Justice should be focused solely on the judges and the other players in the case, and thus on the very serious matter to be dealt with by the Court of Justice. Attention should not be paid to or simply be at risk of being directed at cameras and microphones. In short, I am concerned that the very serious concern for the proper and uninterrupted settlement of the impeachment case could be jeopardised by the adoption of the proposal. In the worst case scenario, the proposal will also risk losing and weakening legal certainty, and we should not do so. Thirdly, I believe that there is a need to take into account the witnesses who have to testify in the Court of First Instance and the other actors in the case. Adoption of the proposal would have the consequence that they would be exposed to extensive public exposure, which they have not themselves proposed and may not be interested in either. In my opinion, it is not reasonable for witnesses to testify on live television flanked by breaking news beams. It is impeachment, with all due respect, too serious for that. Does this mean that there should be no publicity about the impeachment and that the Danish people should be cut off from following the case? No, I certainly don't think so. However, this means that interested parties must either show up physically in the Court's room and take their seats in the audience or follow the media's representation of the case. I guess a reproduction will be quite extensive and detailed. In addition, the Court of Justice, as the rules are today, can, in a concrete assessment, authorise the transmission of sound and image. The intention behind the proposal, as I said, is not at all wrong, but I believe that, in this matter, we in the Danish Parliament should adhere to the current rules for the presence of cameras and microphones in legal proceedings, which have been created on the basis of thorough consideration and difficult and careful balance between, on the one hand, the interests of the public and, on the other hand, the considerations of, among other things, public interest. legal certainty and the parties involved in the proceedings. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419130729	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments. The first to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419130736	Thank you to the Minister for Justice for reviewing the government's position on this. I must admit that I am surprised that the government will not open the doors to what is happening at the Court of Justice. After all, we must bear in mind that this case, the impeachment case against Mrs Inger Løjberg, is a matter which we in Parliament have debated in a way in which everyone has had access to it. We have had consultations where there has also been public access and where it has been possible to keep track. Now you want to cut people off, for example. lives in Thisted or elsewhere in North Jutland, from following what is going on, because it is a relatively small hall where there can be relatively few people who can follow it here. Why is it that the government really does not want to participate in this to give full insight into what is going on? The person sitting on the dock, Mrs Inger Løjberg, has said OK. In the case of television broadcasting. Then why not just do it for the benefit of all of us?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419130840	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419130841	I do not agree with the basic premise of the question, namely that the government will not open its doors. There will be access to this trial in line with the model we have chosen in other legal proceedings and the openness that we are laying down over our legal system. After all, it is not fair to make a comparison of the court proceedings that are taking place with the treatment that, for example, is being carried out. takes place in the Things here because the premises are quite different. These are, on the one hand, the efforts to be made, on the other hand, the way in which the debate is being conducted and, on the other hand, what needs to be done. So I think the premise for the question is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419130920	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419130921	But I would just like to know what the government is really afraid of here. So what is it that people are not going to see in connection with such an impeachment? After all, it will be a festive fireworks of insight for the Danes to hear and see what this case is all about. After all, it is a matter for all of us when a majority in this House chooses to bring an impeachment. What are we not allowed to see? What are the Danes not allowed to see?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419130947	Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419130948	Well, compared to that estimate, there's really nothing the Danes can't see. We can come back to that in the next legislative proposal. But there are some reasons which I think the questioner will also accept, for example. the fact that a witness in criminal proceedings is required to attend the testimony of other witnesses before the witness himself has given an explanation and what consideration is given to people who have not chosen to be present in the Court of First Instance and who will be exposed to considerable exposure.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419131020	Thank you. The next one I would like to give the floor is Mrs Inger Løbberg, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419131024	Thank you. Now I do not think anyone is going to the Court of First Instance and has chosen to come before the Court of First Instance. It's just to make it clear. I do not quite understand the argument that, as a witness, we should not hear what other witnesses are saying, because at the same time the Minister says that it will be covered richly in the media, and, as such, we could just read ourselves through the Commission report to see what people have said in the past. But what I would also like to hear is, if the Minister does not trust that the Court of Justice can organise this in a way that will make it quiet and orderly. I know it's probably going to be filmed and sent into a room next door, so cameras have already been set up, and so it shouldn't distract anyone. That's one. The second is that I would like to know whether it is a blank 'no' to give greater transparency about what is going to happen in the Court of Justice in a few months' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419131131	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419131132	Indeed, I trust in the Court of Justice, and that is why, with the regulation currently in place, they have the opportunity to organise, if I may say so, the course of battle, that is to say, how, if and to what extent. the broadcasting of what is going on in the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419131154	Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419131156	I was not given an answer to the latter, at least, whether it was a blank 'no' to increase transparency about what is to be done in the Court of Justice. But when the Minister says that he is of course trusting that it can be organized, I think it is good to hear, but can the Minister confirm that it is likely that cameras will be put up in the Court of Justice anyway, because there is simply not enough seats for the pressmen who are going in and conveying it here, in fragments, well to mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419131230	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419131231	I am simply not aware of the actual organisation of the Court of Justice in the way in which they wish to settle the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419131242	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no more brief comments. Then we have to get the alcohol off, and while the Minister is doing so, we must welcome the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr. Jeppe Bruus. Here you go, sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419131312	Thank you. After all, the draft law we are discussing here has just been explained by the Minister of Justice, and this is about the Court of Justice. Some of the comments on the bill are also about the Court itself as an institution, both in Bill No. L 187, that is to say about television broadcasting, and what we shall deal with afterwards, about the judgment. It has to be said that there may then be good reason to discuss the very Court of Justice as an institution, but now we have it and the framework within which we work. Then a bill has been put forward here to change the way in which television broadcasting can be broadcast in the Court of Justice, but also, of course, the judgment. And there I have to say that with the opportunities available today, it is up to the President of the Supreme Court to decide to what extent this should happen, and I think that is quite fine. There is, of course, also the argument here to ensure that all Danes have the opportunity to keep up. In 1995, I lived for a year in Iowa with my American family and went to high school. At that time there was a very high profile case, the case of O.J. Simpson, who allegedly killed his ex-wife and his lover. That sentence fell in 1995 while I was in a classroom at the Kennedy High School in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. I actually remember it very clearly because we were sitting and watching, and it was a case that filled a lot, and there was actually a break in all the teaching while we could sit and follow the case. Was it so healthy that we sat there during our high school education in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and followed this very profiled case? Actually, I don't think so. I did not think it was a particularly useful culture, I did not think it was particularly enriching for the cause or for the work that was going on. That is why it is important for me to see how we are to understand these trials, which, as it says, can be very profiled, but is it a healthy principle that they should fill so much that it actually puts the teaching at a high school? I do not really think so, and that is why I think there is something more fundamental to me about how we ensure the balance between, on the one hand, having a legal society and some legal proceedings that can run, and some of them also profiled, both here, but also other matters, and, on the other hand, ensuring that everyone has full insight into, of course, and that there is publicity about what is going on. However, I do not think it would necessarily be appropriate for all these cases to be broadcast on an equal footing with other television shows running. For that reason too, I should like to have some reservations about it. For these reasons, the Social Democratic Party cannot therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419131631	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are also a few brief comments here. The first one is again from Mr. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419131636	Thank you. It is still unclear to me why the Socialists do not want to open the doors to television on an impeachment case like this one. It should be remembered that it is not every day that we have an impeachment case in Denmark fortunately. And of course we can discuss, and we have done so, why the hell anyone chooses to take an impeachment case at all against Mrs Inger Løbberg when there are a lot of other similar cases where you will not choose to run an impeachment case. But leave it alone. Let us concentrate on what is at stake here, namely whether or not there should be a possibility of television. That is why I simply do not understand it. Can we not have a real reason why it is that the Socialists are going to turn off television here? Let me just remind you that if there are things in a trial that the court wants to close down, it can of course offensively do so. Then it can say that from 8:00 a.m. 12 to 12:00. 13 we are discussing this and that, and there is no possibility of being present. But when the key witnesses are to be interrogated etc. etc., there's a chance. That way you could choose to do it, so what's the problem in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419131745	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419131747	However, the question indicates that the doors should be closed today, or that the possibility that there might be television pictures from the trial should not exist. That's not true. In other words, there is full transparency about what is going on in the room and can be reported from there. We have just discussed the fact that journalists can keep up and that the judge can decide to what extent there are television pictures from the case. So it is not true that the doors are closed. What I was arguing for here from the platform was that that possibility is there. And I think it's a good thing that the judge can decide on it. It may be that the judge chooses to have more television pictures than would, I would not say similar cases, because that is a particular case I recognise. But I kind of think that's fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419131833	Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419131834	But now the Socialists have been down in all sorts of details about this matter, and we in the Danish Parliament have also discussed a lot of details about how things are going to be done, what they are going to be accused of, etc. etc., in relation to Mrs Inger Løjberg. Then it's just that I'm surprised that when we're going to have the public about all that and we're discussing it and that's of course good... why is it that the court action itself, as if something is something that the Danes are discussing and going to discuss, must be closed to TV. It is true that one can well offensively open, but one must of course expect that one will shut off when it is not a signal in here from the Folketing. That is why I am asking here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419131918	Thank you. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419131921	I think it is a bit backwards, because I simply do not recall that we have had the discussion with the Danish People's Party along the way to which reference is made here. Now we have it here because of the bill from Mrs Inger Løjberg, which is quite legitimate and fair. And I have argued why I do not believe that those doors are closed and that the judge can, of course, decide to what extent it may have to be televised.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419131943	Thank you. The next to make a brief comment is Mrs Inger Løjberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419131947	Thank you. I simply have to say that I think it is a direct disgusting comparison that Mr. Jeppe Bruus stands and compares what I'm accused of with O.J. Simpson, who was charged with murdering two people. I'll tell you what. I think it's disgusting. Having said that, I just want to ask Mr. Jeppe Bruus, whether he thinks, and whether the Socialists believe and want there to be greater openness about the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419132016	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419132018	I am sorry about the first one. It was certainly not my intention to compare the two cases; I do not think we can do that at all. By the way, he was acquitted, but it doesn't matter. It wasn't meant to be a comparison. It was more thought of as a picture of the experience of cases running. I have actually deliberately failed to compare this case with other Danish cases, precisely because I do not think you can do so. So it wasn't intended. So on the second question, as I remember, on why we do not want greater openness: I think I have argued that there is, in fact, openness about the trial itself. There is full access to both listeners and journalists, and then the judge can decide to what extent television may be broadcast.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419132109	Inger Løjberg, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419132110	I may as well disapprove of comparisons anyway, including with foreign cases. I have no need of that, and I do not need to be compared at all to someone accused of killing two people. But I would just like to try again to ask whether the Socialists believe that the Court of Justice should allow there to be greater openness, because Mr. Jeppe Bruus says it can just do that. Do the Socialists believe that the Court of Justice should allow greater openness?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419132141	Sir. Jeppe Bruus, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419132142	So let me just repeat; now Mrs Inger Løjberg repeated: I am sorry. It was certainly not my intention to compare the two cases. I do not think you can do that at all, and I would actually think it was wrong. Now I used that example myself, but it was not to compare. That was really the picture of this TV transmission thing. Let it go. Then I've regretted twice. In relation to the last part of that, I believe that the judge must decide within the framework that exists and there are opportunities today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419132213	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Bruus. There are no more brief comments. We're gonna have to get the booze off. The next rapporteur is on his way. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left. Here you go to the rapporteur of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419132236	Thank you. The question we have to settle today is related to Paragraph 77 of the Impeachment Act. And it is the court that decides on television broadcasting; it is probably not even the President of the Court, but the whole Court of Justice who does so. This can be done at the request of the defender, the prosecutor and at the request of the press. Yes, and then the court looks at the specific circumstances today, that is to say the overall situation in which the court may choose to allow television and radio broadcasting to be broadcast. If we adopt this proposal, we must at least conclude that it gets like a reverse sign that then it is Parliament here today that has the competence that the Court of First Instance has today. It will be the Folketing that will in future acquire competence through the decision-making process, which you can see now being transferred to the Folketing. But is it even possible to do so in relation to an ongoing case? This is, in fact, a good question which we have not really seen clarified. Normally this is the case and you can try to ask the Danish Parliament's Legal Secretariat that when you change the rules, it doesn't matter for cases already in progress; they run according to the rules that applied when the case was brought. I doubt if you can change the rules of the game here for a case when it is brought. We should then just assume that the Folketing can change the current rules for a case that is under way. Is that such a good idea? We usually get this through a consultation process, and we have not got it in this case. But then there is nothing more to it than that we must use the available means, and here I can see that Denmark's Radio has consulted the chairman of the Association of Judges, who would normally give a hearing answer at least, and he says that it damages legal certainty if the testimony is to be broadcast directly in pictures and sounds: the Court may, exceptionally, allow a television transmission. But personally doesn't think it's a good idea. There are considerations to take to the officials, to the witnesses in this case who have done a job, which they must inquire about. And I don't think they should risk their statements being cut to pieces and the high light. It is far too serious for that. The President of the Association of Judges refers primarily to which he states that it is a matter of consideration for the witnesses in the case. And that is also the reason why the Left cannot support the proposal, that is to say, a consideration of those witnesses who, under threats of six months from now, are forced to come and testify in the case. They must fulfil their duty of witness, and it is a strained and nervous process that they face, in a witness situation with either 26 or 30 Supreme Court judges no, that is not true; half are Supreme Court judges, and I think that in the current situation it is 13-13. But that is certainly a strained atmosphere in which we must now also be shown on television. I do not think that is fair to people who have not voluntarily chosen to go there and have not voluntarily chosen to go on television. The rest of us also have a TV visit here outside, but we can of course, as I have noticed, that several of our colleagues can also say: No, thank you, we do not want to participate. That would not be possible if we adopted this proposal. The Minister of Justice referred to the concept of witness cover, and I didn't quite understand that. I must agree with Mrs Inger Løjberg on that point. Of course, if a witness has spoken on Monday, it is true that Friday's witness in ordinary criminal proceedings should not be able to know what Monday's witness has said, but on the other hand it is well reproduced in the written press. Enough about that. As I said, it is the consideration of the witnesses that makes it impossible for the Left to vote in favour of this proposal. The President of the Association of Judges also has a different regard. He says this could turn into a show. And I shall not comment on that further, that is to say how and how it is taken up. The thing about a show has something to do with what the players themselves say. At least I have respect for the lawyers who participate in it. I don't think they're gonna make it a show. But the risk is there. So summa summarum, mainly for the sake of witnesses, the Left does not want to support this bill, and I would point out in this connection that the court can already choose to allow it today if the Court of Justice wishes otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419132733	Thank you. It was just in the second for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419132739	Thank you. And thank you for the explanation of the Left's reasons for not wanting to support the proposal for broadcasting by the Court of Justice. In this respect, I am able to follow the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Preben Bang Henriksen so far, that if there was a normal trial with people in the whole country, a dispute about something, an act of violence, or whatever it may be, there may well be things that tell us that it is not people who are used to handling themselves in the public space, that it is not people who are used to express themselves in different ways, both orally and in writing, but it is precisely people who are used to what we are dealing with in this matter, and, incidentally, people who for many people are going to Christiansborg at Slotsholmen and such things and well know what this is all about. Does it not make any difference to the Left that this matter is very special and that those people in there are not ordinary people, but are typically officials or politicians?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419132850	Here you go, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419132852	No, it doesn't matter. Now the rapporteur has just used the expression of this issue several times, and then I just have to say that when we make legislation in here, it is a law that is general, it is not addressed to a particular case, and neither should this legislation be. And the point of witness to which I referred, and which the Danish Court of Justice also refers, seems to me to be the case in all cases, and I have to say that there is, however, the cat member, that if it were to be completely meaningless, then I cannot rule out the possibility that the Court of Justice or the President of the Court of First Instance will decide that there will be television. There is already a legal basis for this today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419132932	Thank you. Is there a brief comment? There is. Here you go, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419132935	Yes, and there it would help a great deal if it were so that the Left, which is a proud old party here in Christiansborg, would give its recommendation to allow television broadcasting, and that signal could be given here in the Parliamentary Chamber. In fact, you do not do the opposite: send the signal that it is probably not safe. But I really do need answers to: what is it that is doing and now it is this one, it is the impeachment case that we are discussing that the people who are part of this case are having such a dangerous problem with TV being present? The journalists, the writing press, are already there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419133015	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419133016	Well, I don't understand, sir. Peter Skaarup's question, where he keeps saying: this is it. When I read the bill in question, which has been tabled here, it is not about the quotation of this case, it is about a general amendment of the impeachment law. In this context, I have to say that there is one consideration to be given to those who have to come and give testimony, namely the consideration that they should not be shown on national television, which we others can say no to, and if they say no and stay at home, then they will go to jail for six months. That is enough for us to say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419133047	I don't know if you can say the damper in here in the Danish Parliament, but at least you have to say the jail. Thank you. We need to get the liquor off. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is DF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419133122	Until now, we have heard the Socialists and the Left present their position and the government's position and, on the basis of what has been said there, it seems to be an incredibly difficult matter and that it is very, very difficult to manage, and that there are all kinds of reasons why it is not possible and cannot be done, that there is complete openness. Danes who are in Thisted or Skagen or somewhere else in Jutland should not have access because they now live far away. It is only citizens who happen to be close and can enter the Court of Justice and attend the case that must have access to it. That is how we must understand what has been said. That is at least the conclusion of what has been said. Well, all this talk is about an impeachment case that should never have been there, we just have to remember. It is a witch hunt for a certain person who has been so vigilant about our strict foreign policy in Denmark. Because if you didn't have a situation where it was about it, you would have had many impeachment cases in Denmark. Then there would have been a great many ministers who had gone through impeachment cases. In Denmark it is the case that the trials are actually open to the public unless it is decided that it should be different. You can come in and follow a trial in Denmark, and it makes sense that this is the case. Therefore, it is also reasonable from the point of view of the Danish People's Party that in a case like this one allows increased insight and increased access for all Danes, because it is a very special thing to conduct an impeachment case in Denmark. This is something that may happen once in a generation or close to it at least. The proposal to be able to follow the impeachment case itself seems to us to be quite clear to support, and we are pleased that Mrs Inger Løjberg has put forward that proposal. Like the person on the dock, it is very legitimate to be interested in having full access to what is going on, and I think it is actually a brilliant proposal. Because it is something that follows up the tradition we have had in Denmark that we create more publicity about what is going on at Christiansborg, understood in that way that we have live transmissions of what is going on here in the Parliament hall and that we have it in the committees if we have a hearing or we have the minister in consultation. So it is in all possible ways something that follows up on what we, who travel in the environment around Christiansborg, are familiar with and are used to, and of course also the officials at Slotsholmen. They also know about it, and many of them have tried to participate in a consultation and have followed in how it is done. So it is a democratic gain for the people's regime that there is a live transmission of what is going on in the Court of Justice. We should also bear in mind that most Danes are not trained lawyers and do not know all the details about what is going on in such a case, and rarely or perhaps never had reason to face a court and see how the work is done in a court of law. So many of us in Denmark are very interested in what is going on, but because we may not be on the matrimony or may not always have the great interest in a particular case, we do not have the opportunity to follow by a hundred percent. After all, as several speakers have already said and also in today's debate, the courts are at the heart of the rule of law. It is there that there is a flow of information, insider knowledge, strategic reflections and the argument back and forth between skilled lawyers. In this case, it's about a lot of what's going on at Christiansborg and in the vicinity of Christiansborg, so why politicians in here wouldn't want to give access to TV to what's going on in the Court is a complete mystery to me. I'll tell you what. I simply do not understand the arguments. I cannot understand the arguments expressed here today. So all in all, we would experience a democratic party explosion in the Court of Justice with access to everything that is going on, and when it is the case that a majority against the wishes of the Danish People's Party has decided that the matter should be there, then at least one must allow one to keep track of what is going on. But the most important thing is that the Danes get an understanding of what is going on and can become familiar with what the case is about, so that it is not just some different updates or a journalist's thinking that are expressed, but so that you can see for yourself what is going on. This is what the Danish People's Party wants, so there is full support for the proposal from us here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419133636	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments to be made, first to Mr. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419133642	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I should like to know whether the rapporteur's party has, on previous occasions, proposed compulsory television broadcasting in court proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419133656	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419133658	I think I can say with great certainty that we have not proposed this in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419133704	Sir. Kristian Hegaard, was there another comment?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419133707	It is quite interesting that what was supposed to create such a great deal of openness, and what the rapporteur does not see there is any argument for not introducing, the rapporteur's party has never even proposed itself in the past, but because there is now a case concerning Mrs Inger Købberg, the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party believe that it should be introduced. Can the rapporteur not see that it is a little strange that it is precisely when it is one particular person who is going to be before the Court of Justice that the rapporteur then says that it is absolutely essential and absolutely necessary to have a television transmission in court?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419133737	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419133738	On the contrary, it is our view of the developments we see in society, where what is going on in the Parliament hall, where in the old days it was a closed book for most people who could sit a journalist, and there could also be a television company that recorded some of it, a few things that are now an open book. We have a complete transmission of everything that's going on in the Assembly Hall... some of it's probably a little boring, but okay, that's how we have hearings and everything's open. Then why don't you open this up? It's about the same thing. Why not, Radical?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419133810	Thank you. The next one to make a brief comment is Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419133816	Thank you. The Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti do not have many common cases, but we have one that I know is both very important to myself and to Mr. Peter Skaarup, and that is to change the Public Service Act so that there will be more publicity in the administration. But is Mr. Peter Skaarup does not agree with me that there is a great difference between the citizens' ability to control us politicians and the office work and then on a trial in which we should be judged? Because I am, of course, a great supporter of openness in the administration, but I think we are a little on a different playing field when it comes to legal proceedings, and I would really just like to hear what the Danish People's Party thinks about the difference between the two things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419133853	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419133854	This isn't just any trial. It's a trial that the politicians in here know everything about. We have had consultations, we have had questions, Mrs Rosa Lund himself took part in the debate itself, we had in here both the first and second readings about whether we should even have an impeachment case against Mrs Inger Løjberg, something on which we were deeply divided. But what I thought was good in the debate was that everyone could see what Enhedslisten meant, and that everyone could see what it was the Danish People's Party thought, and Enhedslisten was too much for the Danish People's Party and the Danish People's Party was very much opposed. But everyone could see it. Now we get an impeachment case, where it is probably reserved for a few journalists who have set aside time in the calendar to follow this, a few people who happen to live close by and who can come and see it, and that is it. That's poor. Why not open it up? It should be in the spirit of Enhedslisten to make it open.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419133958	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419134000	I did not really get an answer to my question, but we consider it precisely two different things to control us in here at Christiansborg and then with the courts. I'm actually just gonna have mr. Peter Skaarup to confirm that everyone can then read a verdict. Everyone can go through everything that has happened inside the courtroom without it being televised and sounded. So there is actually openness about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419134025	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419134027	Well, listen, I think Mrs Rosa Lund has to admit that this is totally political. It is totally political whether we here at Christiansborg choose to launch an impeachment case or not, and we could have conducted a lot of impeachment proceedings if we had chosen to do so if a political majority had chosen to do so. But it is totally political whether you do it or not, and therefore it is totally politically reasonable that the result of what you decide on in here should be given full access to. And I simply do not understand that the Enhedslisten, who would like to have deleted paragraphs of the Public Act in order to give more openness, will not have complete transparency about this. It's really good night.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419134111	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no more brief comments. But we're just gonna have to get the booze off. Thank you. Then we should welcome the SF rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419134142	Thank you for that and thank the author of this motion for a resolution, and I am presenting the speech on behalf of our legal rapporteur, Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt, who unfortunately cannot be here today. The proposer, Mrs Inger Løjberg, will face the Supreme Court judges and politically appointed judges of the sixth Danish impeachment case this autumn. Mrs Inger Løbberg, according to the proposal, wants the media to be able to broadcast sound and image directly from the negotiations of the Court of Justice. As the rules are today, in criminal proceedings, for example, the President of the Court has the possibility of exceptionally authorising filming in the courtroom, and if anyone wishes to film in the Court of First Instance, it will be up to the President if necessary. We in the SF think this is a good arrangement. The President knows the substance of the matter, the witnesses and knows what needs to be questioned. In particular, for the sake of the witnesses, as several other rapporteurs before me have also pointed out, one should look at the extremely sensitive situation of giving testimony. Everyone who's been near a courtroom knows that. If you know that your testimony turns into a YouTube clip or facebook post, five minutes after you open your mouth in the courtroom, it is not necessarily conducive to the quality of the testimony that emerges and you will not be able to rule out the possibility that it will result in testimonies of a lesser quality. Moreover, it is also always apparent from the judgment which evidence is essential to the case and why it is emphasized. We will find ourselves in a very strange situation if we, as the Public Prosecutor's Office, are to legislate on a pending impeachment case. It is simply short-circuiting the system and I do not see how we, as Parliament, can do anything that concerns the pending impeachment of Mrs Inger Løjberg. Therefore, if we are to change the rules of impeachment, it should not be in connection with the holding of one, but it should be in a situation where we do so on a thoroughly worked paper and without an impeachment on the horizon. For all these reasons, the SF cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419134402	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419134406	I would just like to ask the SF's rapporteur whether this matter does not, however, differ from normal legal proceedings. It's a political matter. It's us in here at Christiansborg. SF has been for an impeachment. The Danish People's Party has opposed it. We have taken the debate here in Parliament. Would it not be reasonable for such a political matter to be followed by the Danes, whether you live in Thisted or in Aabenraa? Shouldn't that be fair enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419134437	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419134438	Thank you and thank you for the question. As I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, I am not the rapporteur on this, and I am not the one who has dealt with this matter. But having said that, I would say that we do not believe that the Folketing should have the competence to decide how and how a trial should be transmitted. It must simply be up to the courts, and it is possible to do so today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419134506	Here you go, Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419134508	I am sorry, I did not hear that Mrs Halime Oguz was not the rapporteur. However, I have to say that I believe that the case differs significantly from all sorts of other legal proceedings which deal with small and large disputes between citizens. Here it is all Slotsholmen, it is the whole official apparatus, it is ministers, it is politicians who will be able to do well, even if there is a television presence, and that is why the Danish People's Party says: then let us give the opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419134540	Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419134542	I actually mentioned in the introduction that I am not the rapporteur on this, but I will still repeat my answer, and that is that you have that opportunity today, so it must be up to the courts to assess whether it is obvious to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419134556	Thank you. Just for information: you can ask questions even if it is not for the general rapporteur. Halime Oguz I know that). That's good. Here you go, Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419134605	I'm not gonna ask you specifically about that. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the SF believes that the Court of Justice should allow greater openness.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419134617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419134618	I think this is a very interesting question which I would appeal to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights to consider between the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419134627	Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419134629	Now it is just because it has, like it has been said several times, that it is up to the Court of Justice to decide. That is why, as a political party, we could have an opinion as to whether we think that the Court of Justice should allow greater openness.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419134643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419134644	As I also mentioned in my speech, which is not my speech, but is the speech by Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, we believe that if you really want to do so, it will be necessary for it to be prepared and submitted to a hearing whether it is possible to transmit future impeachment cases. We would very much like to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419134709	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We're gonna have to get the booze off. Thank you. The next is the Radical Left rapporteur, Mr President. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419134759	Thank you very much for the floor. There has been public access to justice since 1849. That is a fundamental principle of law. It must be ensured that the rules governing the treatment of the court are observed; that everyone can come in from the street and see that the rules governing the defendant and the parties involved in the proceedings are followed to the letter. That role can easily be filled by media and others with their coverage of the matter, without it being done by a real live transmission. And I'm sure the case will be covered in the columns, yes, maybe even split up and split down. So openness is and remains one hundred percent. In this way, the purpose of the public administration of justice is fulfilled, because it is seen that everything is going right. For many other reasons, the Radical Left cannot agree to this bill. Firstly, there must be respect for the law, and witnesses should not be stressed and pressed. The crucial thing is that they provide an accurate explanation without cameras breathing them in the back of the neck. Secondly, judges can already allow television broadcasting to take place today. I am confident that the judges will assess, on a case-by-case basis, as usual, the appropriateness of television transmission in the light of court proceedings. In practice, this is often permitted when a judgment is handed down. Thirdly, if those accused succeed in laying down rules specifically for their own cause, it will be a new break. I can't recommend that. Fourthly, it goes against the basic legal principle that witnesses should not overhear each other's explanations, because this may lead to the influence of what has previously been heard in similar testimony, and that will ultimately weaken the treatment of the court. The fact that this bill is based on openness is a big bluff. This has nothing to do with openness. It's about making the case a show, a show where you can always put small clips on social media taken out of context, and we have to be better than that, because there has to be respect for justice. It should not become a reality show, because a trial is not a reality show or an entertainment program. There are also no good examples from abroad that television transmission strengthens the proceedings. Now we must let the Court of Justice work calmly; that is the way it is done in a constitutional state. And the Radical Left cannot therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419135109	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go, sir. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419135113	I think it's a little striking. We see that the Radical Left is fighting positively for a better public law that gives more publicity to the administration. The Radical Left is also fighting to put Mrs Inger Løbberg on the brink of impeachment, and that is what has succeeded in convincing all sorts of others. Would it not be reasonable, at least, to have a case involving people who travel around the political environment at Slotsholmen and in the ministries and among politicians become open so that the Danes could keep up with it? Was that too much to ask?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419135152	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419135153	I can fully confirm that the Radical Left is in favour of changing the public law, because this will give journalists much better opportunities to access a wide range of documents and see what is up and down in a specific case. It is the case, in court proceedings in a main debate, that journalists actually have full access to appear and see everything. That is, in fact, what differs from the law on public access to documents, namely the treatment of the courts. Journalists have access to court proceedings, whereas journalists have little access to documents. There is too much that is exempt from access to documents. So in this way there is full agreement with the radical Left's approach to both cases. The problem is that transparency is not for public documents. Openness is for courtrooms, and that's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419135245	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419135246	So I think there is such an elite snobbery about it, as Mr. Kristian Hegaard comes forward with here. I mean, the public law is about journalists being able to access and not access and something like that. And trials aren't about what journalists can do. We are talking about the Danish people here, and we are also talking about the public law. We are talking about whether the Danes can have access to public documents, the documents of the ministries, in other words, in the Public Act. We are talking about the Danes being able to see what is going on in the Court of First Instance. It is the Danes that we want to give it the opportunity; it is not really so much the journalists here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419135325	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419135327	No Danes are limited in showing up at the Court when we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419135333	The next to make a brief comment is Mrs Inger Løjberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419135336	Yes, there really is, sir. Kristian Hegaard. But that's not what I'm gonna ask. So, we have an accusation that has been made in public, it has to be said, because it took place down here in the Parliamentary Chamber and there was plenty of live cover on it. But one must then just say that the defence is not the same, because it is partly darkened now, because it can only be reproduced in fragments. Then I just want to ask Mr. Knox. Kristian Hegaard on the relationship to the Constitution. Sir. Kristian Hegaard himself is a little concerned about this. The Constitution states, of course, that there must be as much publicity as possible about the implementation of the administration of justice. Mr. Kristian Hegaard, that it is as far as possible that there is publicity about this impeachment case?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419135436	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419135437	Yes, I think it is as far as possible that the court has been held on since 1849 when the courts can decide how and how to deal with television broadcasting, and I think it is as far as possible when journalists can come to the case, which I think they will do, just as citizens can also walk off the street if that is what they want. So, yes, as far as possible, there is openness, and that is the way it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419135502	Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419135503	I guess it's a little weird to draw a parallel to 1849. Well, I don't quite think you were thinking of either podcast or live coverage or television transmission in 1849. That is why I think that when the Constitution states that it should be as far as possible, it would be quite natural to allow it to follow developments in society. Well, it's very, very strange that sir. Kristian Hegaard of all, I had almost said, which comes from a party that probably else looks up and is in favour of technology and development, says: No, we stop right here. If there was no podcast and live coverage in 1849 there shouldn't be in 2021 either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419135541	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419135544	It is quite true that in the Basic Law of 1849 it was not possible to take account of what might come from technological tools. That is why it is in the law on the administration of justice that the extent to which television broadcasting can take place is regulated. And, of course, it is up to the judges to assess how this can be done, taking into account the important treatment that needs to be done in court, so that it is done in a good and proper manner. And there I am confident that the judges will weigh up the right considerations, as they have done so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419135613	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund. I would ask Mrs. Rosa Lund to take a leak before she starts. Thank you for that, and we've got it under control. Here you go to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419135655	Thank you. It is a rare event that we in Denmark are conducting an impeachment case. That is why, of course, there is also a great deal of attention to this issue. There is a general and one, I would say, understandable curiosity with the ordinary citizen to find out what is up and down in such a case. When we read in Enhedslisten's very long report, we had no doubt that every stone in the case had been reversed. Distributed on more than 3,000 pages it was described what had happened in the case of illegal separation of asylum couples. And it was not easy to read; I must be honest with you. This is a complex matter in which a new area is constantly being elucidated from both sides. This will also happen when the Court of Justice starts its work after the summer. That is precisely why there are so many highly qualified judges to judge the case, and it is very difficult for an ordinary citizen to take a stand on both the evidence and the testimony that is being made in court. This does not mean that the ordinary citizen with a curiosity in relation to the case should be prevented from being allowed to know what is going on. But I think we should think about which channels are used and in what way we provide that information. As a guiding principle in our legal society, we have public access to the Danish courts. This means that everyone can sort of get to the courtroom and watch what is going on if they want to, but most importantly, it means that the press has access to report on what is going on in the case. Fortunately, it is not just a direct report, but an analyzed and thoroughly prepared presentation of what has happened, in conjunction with previously presented information and perspectives, which allows us, as civil citizens and completely outsiders, to get to grips with what is going on in a court of law quite quickly. When a judgment has been given, it shall appear in writing with a representation of the evidence presented, including a transcript of the evidence given. And the judgment that is being handed down is also open to everyone to read. Publicity in legal proceedings does not exist in order for an ordinary citizen, during a trial process, to form an opinion and to judge what the outcome of the trial might be. Publicity in legal proceedings serves the purpose of ensuring, as citizens, that all the rules have been observed; that the witnesses who give the evidence have actually given an explanation; that the evidence presented has actually been presented; that the defenders have actually been given the opportunities they need to defend their client in the Chamber. Publicity in court proceedings, on the other hand, is not something that should serve to put people's curiosity or that people should judge a case for themselves. It may well be that a lot of people, and I can really understand that, would like to know exactly what is going on in some particular trial about something that has been very much covered by the media.I don't want to make comparisons with other court cases.I understand that you can be curious, but it's not a curiosity we have to satisfy. The curiosity we must satisfy must be what is at the heart of the matter, because trials are not entertainment. It is one of the three pillars of our democracy. And even though you might sometimes think from inside this room that it's more like an entertainment program on TV 3, we're streaming live from in here, precisely so that the people can watch us as politicians. But there's just a big difference between the Assembly Hall and a courtroom. That's why I really just wanted to reassure Mr. Peter Skaarup by saying that we actually thought it was good that there was publicity about the debate we had in here, but now we have moved it away from the political level, because Mr. Peter Skaarup's party was in the minority and therefore an impeachment was established. So now there is a court, and there are some other rules that we in the Enhedslist think are sensible. Finally, I would also like to refer to both the DJF and the Court of Justice, which I think I will say on one or two points about legal proceedings, and they note that, in addition to helping to remove focus from the trial itself, there are particularly important considerations to take into account for the witnesses, which I also think should weigh heavily, because you can change behaviour when there is a camera on. It is not voluntary to testify in a trial, and I believe that few public employees had imagined that, as part of their work, they would be exhibited via live streaming and on social media. I believe that most public servants are actually happy that they do not receive the same attention as Søren Brostrøm, for example. I guess he didn't see it coming either. But I think it is important that we take care of the witnesses here too. There are a great many clear and strong views on this matter, and we know, unfortunately, that there are a lot of people who find it difficult to separate a testimony from the substance of the matter and from what is really meant. Therefore, I can be afraid that the witnesses will be exposed to hetz and in doubt whether we can give them the protection they need. The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419140215	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419140221	I listened very carefully to Mrs Lund's speech, because I was simply looking for what the good argument for not allowing television broadcasting for the Court of Justice could be from the Enhedslisten, who wants public access to the administration and who believes that the public law we have today is far too closed. The only thing I heard as a possible explanation and I would have liked to make that clear was that it is not necessary, as one says more or less, because we have journalists who can see and reflect what has been said in the Court of Justice. So they're gonna make it for us. Is that the argument, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419140311	Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419140312	I think there are several good arguments. I'll try to be brief. First of all, there is the protection of the witnesses. Secondly, there is the whole question of the appointment of some judges in this case. They are the ones who have to judge, and we should not turn ourselves into judges while the case is running. You're practically innocent until proven guilty. Thirdly, and this is the last argument, Mr President, I think that there is public opinion. Peter Skaarup. There is, after all, public access to legal proceedings in Denmark. It is easy to access, and you can read the judgment reports afterwards. This can also be done in this case, and I would only like to call on interested and dedicated citizens who do not just want journalists' interpretation of the matter to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419140353	Sir. Peter Skaarup for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419140355	I just don't know where Mrs. Rosa Lund gets those arguments. It is said that we must be careful not to turn ourselves into judges while the case is running. At the same time, however, it is said that there are also journalists who can report on what is going on in the trial. Can't Mrs. Rosa Lund hear that there's something going on here? Well, we have to be careful not to turn ourselves into judges, but the Danes do. The Danes have already made themselves judges, just as they make themselves judges of what is going on in here by political debates, because they can keep up with what is going on. Does the fact that only journalists can reproduce things really mean that the Danes will not make themselves judges and will not judge it here? Of course they want to do so, it just happens on a bad basis, because apparently it is only the journalists that Mrs Lund wants to have access to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419140443	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419140444	I would therefore venture to claim that there is a very great difference between being accused and running for office in the Folketing. So it's kind of a mess to mix the two things together, I have to say. Then Mr. Peter Skaarup, where I get my arguments from. I do so, as I said in my speech, among other things, from the DJF and the Court of Justice, which I think have some very sensible considerations on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419140504	Thank you. And the next person to make a brief comment is Mrs Inger Løbberg, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419140508	Thank you. I'd like to follow up on sir. Peter Skaarup's question, because I understand that Mrs Rosa Lund has almost absolute confidence that the press is reproducing everything correctly. That is why I would just like to ask Mrs Lund whether she would ever accept that documents released to the press through access to documents should not be reproduced directly, but merely be referred to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419140538	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419140540	Well, again, I think there's a difference between those two things. I think there is a very big difference between the fact that journalists should have the opportunity to control the administration and the work that is going on in the central administration, and then a trial. I understand that it would be much easier if the two things were the same, but they simply are not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419140559	Here you go, Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419140600	Well, it was a bit of a cheap round, if you can just get away with saying: Well, I actually think there's a difference between the two things. So I will try again: would Mrs Rosa Lund ever accept that documents which had been handed over through public access to documents, for example? to the press, should not be reproduced directly, but that they should be reported, chewed through by the press before they were brought? That's one. The second is that I just have to hear: is this a completely blank rejection of the fact that there may be increased openness about the impeachment case?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419140634	Rosa Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419140636	To reply briefly to the first question: No, we would never accept that. And as I said to Mr. Peter Skaarup, it is also the case that when a judgment is handed down, you can actually have access to all the elements of the case. You can read testimonials, you can read the judgment report. Now I've specialized in law, and I want to say that it consists primarily of reading judgment reports, and they're not hard to get hold of. As far as the second part is concerned, I think it would be most appropriate for the judges to decide, so it is not in this way a complete rejection. But I have to say that I still have to hear the good argument, but it may be that I hear it when Mrs Inger Løjberg comes to the floor himself, although I may have some doubts. But at least I'll listen carefully.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419140719	Thank you for that, thank you to Mrs Lund. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419140750	Thank you. The introduction to the bill states that, according to Article 32 of the Code of Procedure, it is prohibited to transmit and record images and sound unless otherwise permitted by the court. It also states that it is a good and fair way of defending the interests of defendants and witnesses in cases of great public interest, among others. In the Conservative People's Party we are aware that it is already possible to broadcast and make recordings in court, and we see no reason to break that principle. That means that it will therefore be possible today to take a decision to actually broadcast television directly from the impeachment case. The second part is the consideration of the witnesses. It has to be said that this is a matter which will have the great interest of the people, and the witnesses are entitled to our protection. And it can be very violent if they suddenly find themselves on live TV and become publicly known and very many in Denmark will have an attitude towards them. They didn't ask for that. Some may even go so far as to argue that they are going to be publicly visible, and that is also one of the major reasons why we choose to suspend the possibility that already exists today is a good option. Conservatives cannot therefore support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419140927	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419140933	I have to admit that I am a little sorry that the Conservatives will not be involved in full transparency in an impeachment case, which is a historic matter and which we do not often carry out. One thing is that they agreed to do the impeachment; I was surprised at the fact that Mrs Inger Løbberg was wanted to be brought before the Court of Justice. But that it will also close off so that there will be no television broadcasting and it will be reserved for the small crowd, either journalists or able to appear in the Court of Justice itself, personally, and to attend things, I think is a pity. So what is the good argument, Mrs Mai Mercado, that we will not allow full access so that everyone can make sure of what is going on and what the matter is about, and assess back and forth what is really up and down in that case?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419141023	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419141025	The good argument is quite clear that it is already possible to make a television broadcast today, but that it is up to the individual court to decide on it. And it is actually very reasonable that it is the individual case that can then decide to grant the authorisation. Now not many others have mentioned it, but it is better to give an agency an opportunity to do something rather than forbid them to do so, and I think it is fine as the wording is today, and I am also quite sure that the media will cover this, so that if you sit and are curious about what has happened in the Court of Justice, you will also be able to read it on all the news surfaces of the world. In fact, I have no doubt about that, including in Thisted and Thy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419141107	I think thisted and Thy are the same thing. Here you go, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419141112	I would like to say to Mrs Mai Mercado that it is quite true that the opportunity is there, but one can surely listen to what is being said by the Association of Judges in this case, that it is an opportunity, but that it is not an opportunity that one intends to take advantage of. At the same time, we must say that the Socialists, the Left, the Conservatives, all parties which have supported an impeachment case against Mrs Inger Løbberg are opposed to supporting this proposal that the Danes should have full insight into what is going on in the form of television broadcasting. So the signal we send from in here is unfortunately, and not with the good will of the Danish People's Party, a signal that there should not be television broadcasting, is it not?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419141151	Here you go, Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419141152	There we just look at things very differently, because there is an opportunity today. You have the opportunity to make the decision, and you can just do that. The Court of Justice can of course decide that it will be possible to broadcast. So you can just do that. There is openness today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419141210	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then we need to get the alcohol off before the rapporteur goes down. Thank you. The next person to have the platform is Mr. Knox. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419141232	Thank you. New citizens can support the bill. It is not a secret that New Citizens do not support an impeachment of Mrs Inger Løjberg, but that is not what we are talking about today. Today we are talking about openness in the case, and there we think it is of course relevant that citizens should have the opportunity to have as thorough an insight into the matter as possible, and therefore also that there should be television broadcasting. This is the case in the case that is now before us, and it will also be the case if there are other cases. After all, impeachment is something that really concerns the citizens; it is something that rarely happens a great cause. So we think it is quite reasonable that they have the opportunity to get as much information as they want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419141326	Thank you, sir. Peter Seier Christensen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419141348	Now the legal process is starting on the impeachment case, which is about whether the law was broken in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, when it was decided that so-called child bride without individual assessment should be separated from their spouses. For me it is really gratifying that it is now a legal process that is going on, because the fact that the Constitution says that it is the Folketing that is going to prosecute and prosecute impeachment cases makes it very political in the past in this matter. It has always been a discussion about whether the law was broken, but the main character of the case, Mrs Inger Løjberg, and Mrs Inger Løjberg's supporters have tried to make it a lot of politics. When someone has said that the law has been broken, the answer has been: Well, we were against child bride. It is like saying to the current government that what you did with the minks was not legal, and the answer is: well, public health. In this way there are parallels in these two cases, as those who are suspected of having broken the law try to make it not to be about law, but try to make it about politics and to get political support in Danish society when law may not be respected. We do not want this political debate to be allowed to fill in relation to law when the Court of Justice starts, and we have to say that the precedent that has emerged in this case shows that the main character of the case, Mrs Inger Købberg, would like everything to be about politics here, even if it is not a political discussion. Nor are we in any doubt that the desire to get television into the Chamber is due to the fact that Mrs Inger Løjberg wishes to conduct the matter politically with the Danes rather than legally with the jury, and we would find that very problematic. It would be appropriate to cast doubt on the institution of the Court of Justice if the Danes were to be persuaded that it is a question of politics and not of law, and we look with fear at the fact that Mrs Inger Løbberg and her supporters will be able to share loose cuts from such a case where Mrs Inger Løbberg makes political speeches before the jury and justifies the matter politically in the same way as has happened so far, to pretend that there is a great injustice, because there is political disagreement that the law should of course apply here. For these reasons, we cannot vote in favour of this bill. We welcome the fact that the law is now in the forefront and we welcome the fact that politics is now being pushed aside, because it is not a political matter. It is a matter of whether or not the law has been violated.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419141728	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment, and it is again from Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419141734	I must admit that I think there are some embarrassing arguments in what the Liberal Alliance is doing here today. The fact that an accused person somehow feels offended and that that is why this proposal is coming is too embarrassing an argument. It is basically about the time we live in, where everything that is going on in the Parliamentary Chamber, in the parliamentary life in here, must be surrounded by as much openness as possible. We have had a debate on an impeachment case where we could cross blades about what we have had consultations, we have had open consultations, we have had hearings, everything has been open, but suddenly the Liberal Alliance wants to cut it all off, so it should not be open, so there should be no TV on anymore. That is the crux of the matter. And why will it not actually allow the Danes to gain full insight into what is going on in a political matter, because it is
ParlaMint-DK_20210419141827	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419141828	Yes, there you can just hear it, because here is one of Mrs Inger Løjberg's political supporters who says that this is a political matter, even if it is a matter of whether or not the legislation is legally infringed. That is what needs to be decided by the Court of Justice and has nothing to do with politics. However, one of Mrs Inger Løjberg's political supporters is now still trying to make it a policy. It shows, of course, that the way in which the material is intended to be used by the court is through politics to cast doubt on the legal legitimacy of the Court of Justice, then doubts about one of the central institutions of the legitimacy of Danish society, because it benefits a political one. So people will be disunited, claiming that the institutions are not working, that politics has gone into something that is really law. That's what the danger of it is. Thank you for the example, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419141929	Here you go, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419141931	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, isn't it just such condemnation talk that comes here, isn't it just the case that now we have to try to hang out political opponents, rather than face the fact that society has evolved over the years since the impeachment of Erik Ninn Hansen? It has developed in such a way that the Danes want to know directly what Mr. Ole Birk Olesen thinks about things, not wrapped by journalists, direct message from the Assembly Hall, on social media, direct message. This is also what we want from the impeachment case, and why should we not have it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419142008	Here you go, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419142010	First of all, I believe that Mr. Peter Skaarup wants the opportunity to take detached video clips from the Court and cut them together, as Mr. Peter Skaarup finds the best, and portrays a legal process as if it were a political process, and tells Danes that there is something political going on here, although it is something legal. Mr. Peter Skaarup confirmed here in Parliament today by claiming that it is a political process, although it is a legal process.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419142040	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. There are no more brief comments. Finally, we need the rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go, Mrs. Inger Løjberg, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419142100	The charge is raised in public, but the defense must be conducted in small edited fragments. It will be the consequence if the majority in the Danish Parliament, who voted a few months ago in favour of impeachment, rejects the bill we are debating here today. After today's debate, I still do not understand why it is so important for some parties here in the Folketing to fight against increased openness and real public access in impeachment cases. What are the Danes not allowed to see? I can tell you quite clearly, and I am, after all, the defendant in the case. I have nothing to hide, I know what I've done, I know what I've said, and I can stand up for it all. And impeachment is something special. It is a political majority who decides whether to make an accusation. The case is about the office of a minister and half of the judges are politically appointed. I am not suggesting that you should look up the doors and let the cameras into any criminal proceedings in the Danish country, but an impeachment case, and in particular on a subject such as child bride, which has been the subject of countless hours of public debate, is therefore not a common criminal case. That is why the public on paper, as the rules are today, is not enough. Today it takes a personal appearance if you want to attend a case in the Court of First Instance in your own eyes, and then there has to be a level playing field. It will be public to the few privileged, but not to the many. The truck mechanic in Holstebro does not have a real opportunity to take some thirty days off in the autumn to come to Christianshavn and hope that there is a place, but it is rather easier for the lawyer at Frederiksberg. Perhaps I am naive, but frankly I am appalled by the fact that there are parties which, in other contexts, claim to fight for more openness, which suddenly here are fighting against the Danes being given the opportunity to see what is going on in the Court of First Instance. So it's somehow more or less agonizing that you're trying to reject this. Perhaps you do not trust your own accusation, you may fear what openness can lead to, I do not know, but I know that it can be described as pure hypocrisy. I trust the Danes, I believe that full openness is better than relying on editing pieces from reality. I also know that I am not alone in this view, and that is why, of course, I would also like to thank those parties who are now in favour of this and who do not just have openness as an ideal when it benefits themselves. Not least, I would like to thank the section of the press who, after all, hold onto their ideals, and I am thinking here, for example. Mr President, I should like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. It is not about disrespect for the Court of Justice, as some have said, on the contrary. I have every confidence that the judges of the Court of Justice can ensure a dignified and reassuring settlement of impeachment cases. This applies to my own, but also to others who may come afterwards, and frankly I am a little concerned that so many parties in the Danish Parliament do not believe in the right, whose President is the Supreme Court, to be able to organise the matter properly if there is a camera in a corner. Transparency is not an expression of disrespect; on the contrary, it is a declaration of confidence. I know that the Court of Justice can, in principle, allow the transmission of sound and image already today, but I also know that it is primarily a theoretical possibility that the Court of Justice will allow it to the extent that I think the Danes are entitled to, namely everything. It is like having a public law which says that an authority can choose to grant access to documents and then say that otherwise it will just have to be sufficient and sufficient. I think that the general rule must be fully public unless there are particular reasons for otherwise. Having said that, I am also aware that there is a concern particularly for ordinary staff in the central administration, such as: is not in a position of leadership and, more or less unwittingly, has become part of this, which is really a political matter, and it can of course seem violent, precisely because the public interest is as great as it is. That is why I would like to say right now that I am prepared to table an amendment if it can accommodate something that responds precisely to that part of the concern and then limits transmission during witness hearings on request. It could, for example, be done. I hope and expect, of course, that all parties will be involved in a constructive discussion of this during the committee's proceedings, and in particular those parties which normally argue for greater openness. If not, yes, then you can only call this one thing, and that is hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419142734	Thank you to Mrs Inger Løjberg. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419142807	The debate is open. And the first person we have to welcome in this bill is the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419142817	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to thank Mrs Inger Løjberg for submitting the proposal. It is rare to say that there is reason to debate the impeachment process, but it certainly does not make the debate any less important, on the contrary. Let me start by stating that I fully agree with Mrs Inger Nøjberg that it is essential that we can have confidence in our courts. This applies to the ordinary courts, and this also applies, of course, to the Court of Justice. An impeachment case is very special. As laid down in the Basic Law, it is the Folketing that is acting as prosecutor and the case is judged by up to 15 Supreme Court judges and an equal number of members appointed by the Folketing. This is not how we know criminal proceedings from ordinary courts, and that is why, of course, there are also some issues that are particularly relevant to the Court of Justice. Under the current Law on the Court of Justice, an impeachment must state, on the one hand, the reasons for the judgment and, on the other hand, the different opinions expressed during the vote. The judgment shall also indicate the number of votes, but without giving the names of the Judges. In the draft law, Mrs Inger Løbberg wishes to see a reference to the Court of Justice in the future, the vote of the individual Members of the Court and the reasons for it. The proposal shall state the reasons on which it is based, inter alia: in that the special nature of the impeachment case, in conjunction with the composition of the Court of Justice, can help to create a suspicion that the politically appointed members of the votes of the Court of First Instance may be politically motivated. I fully agree with Mrs Inger Løjberg that it is essential to avoid the possibility of calling into question the impartiality of judges. This is important if we, as a society, are to safeguard the independence of the Court of Justice and the confidence of the people in the Court of Justice. Having said that, I fundamentally disagree with the best way of achieving this, and therefore the government cannot support the proposal either. Because today's rule that voting is not made public, in my opinion, is precisely what Mrs Inger Løjberg is calling for, namely to prevent politically appointed Members from feeling pressured to vote in accordance with the party line. It is my clear view that by making the vote public, it is precisely in danger of politicising the vote. There is a risk that Members may feel pressured to vote according to their political affiliation rather than on the basis of the evidence of the case. And there is also the risk that Members will be able to use this as a platform for making political views. Let me be clear: that is not the purpose of an impeachment. The Members of the Court of Justice must, of course, decide on the basis of evidence and arguments put forward in court, not on the basis of party political interests. As I said at the outset, it is absolutely essential in a constitutional state that we have confidence in our courts, and I fear that we are in danger of undermining that confidence precisely if a trial is to be made the arena for the dissemination of political messages. Mrs Inger Løjberg wishes to guarantee the independence of the Court of Justice, and the government fully agrees with that objective, but the means proposed by Mrs Inger Løjberg would paradoxically increase the risk of untrue consideration being involved in the impeachment decision. Against this background, the government cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419143212	You're welcome. There are no brief comments to be made to the Minister. So we thank you for your efforts and move on to the rapporteurs. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Bruus of Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419143242	Thank you. The Minister for Justice has just explained the draft law, which is the second thing we are dealing with about the forthcoming impeachment case, tabled by Mrs Inger Løjberg. The wish here is that there should be transparency about the vote, given that this is of course a special case, and an impeachment case is a special case. The comments on the draft law refer, inter alia, to: to Jens Peter Christensen and this problem of party political ties being a problem from a legal perspective and in relation to the desire to ensure party political independence and impartiality. I therefore agree that the very construction of the Court of Justice would probably look different, should we build that construction today, and I think that is a relevant, fundamental discussion to have with each other. I think, however, that it may be a little difficult to take on the very short track of changing it, and I am not entirely convinced that it is such an entirely correct interpretation that the fact that Jens Peter Christensen highlights this uncertainty should lead us to solve this problem by creating openness. After all, the Supreme Court does not rule on guilt issues in the cases they deal with. The Supreme Court takes a position on matters of principle, which is why it is of course also relevant to gain insight into what fundamental considerations each judge has made and which have been decisive in ensuring that a vote falls to one side or the other. It's different in cases where it's about guilt issues. Although this is not comparable to a case that runs in a court of law or in a court of law, it is, after all, criminal proceedings in relation to the issue of guilt, and therefore it is perhaps in fact more relevant to look at those cases which have suffered from that nature. Then when you want to do away with and remove the lid for whether you could accuse someone of acting impartially or biasedly, and solve that problem by saying: If you are set by SF or Conservative or Danish People's Party, I would like to have an insight into why you voted as you did and what you voted, then I think it would do the opposite. The individual judge would be pressured to reflect on why he is voting in one direction or another. We can only see that when we deal with these legislative proposals, it is highly politicised, and will this not really help to increase the politicisation of the vote in the courts? I think that is a good thing to be afraid of. That is why I do not think it is relevant to have transparency about the individual judge's vote. That has been said, I think it is certainly appropriate to discuss the Court of Justice as a structure, and we can also do so in the future. And with these considerations, the Social Democratic Party cannot support the bill that lies here, and then I have promised to say on behalf of the SF that they do not support the bill either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419143600	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419143604	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Jeppe Bruus for the comments of the Socialists. I actually think that Mr. Jeppe Bruus is talking about some real ideas about the composition and construction of the Court of Justice, and it is not thoughts that are so completely alien to any of them who know a lot about such things in Denmark. I've got one of them. read the Supreme Court Judge Jens Peter Christensen's assessment of this a number of years ago, and it was even a long time ago, and already there in the 00s it was pointed out that it was perhaps not the right way to put the team on, and it was not quite right that you could separate the political from the non-political, if that was what you wanted. Against this background, I would like to ask Mr. Jeppe Bruus, if that were not a very good argument for ensuring that any suspicions are removed, that we would be able to see afterwards, when you have made your decision, whether any of the impeachment judges will vote on political grounds and who voted what. This is a well-known phenomenon already in connection with, for example, the situation today. Supreme Court rulings that you can see how many voted in favour and how many voted against etc. etc. Why not? Why not give it the opportunity so that we remove the mystery that may be about possible political considerations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419143730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419143731	I actually think I tried to answer that, but apparently not clear enough. Paragraph 1: The Supreme Court normally takes a position on questions of principle and not on matters of guilt. Paragraph 2: I think, in fact, the mystery about which there is such a little bit, what is going on here, is something that one is actually trying to put down on it by also saying: Yes, we can't be entirely sure of a judge nominated by the SF or by the Danish People's Party; we really want to know why they voted as they did what they did. Why is it that a judge has to be held accountable in public for what has been voted on in this case? Hopefully it is the case that all the judges vote according to what they think is right or wrong in that case and nothing else.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419143813	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419143816	Now I've just repeated some of the arguments put forward by Supreme Court Judge Jens Peter Christensen. He says, among other things, that it may be difficult to maintain confidence that the party members in the Court of Justice will be able to disregard the party groups in the Folketing's position in relation to the decision on an impeachment, and mentions that the need for trust, the independence and impartiality of the court advocate a reform of the Court of Justice. That is what is being pointed out as a problem here, i.e. whether we can now rely on completely non-political action when sitting as an impeachment judge. So why not completely demystify what is going on by allowing people to see what they have voted as an impeachment judge? Then all the Danes, the citizens, the Parliament, the journalists can see whether it has had influence and say: well, it may have been because the person who voted in this way is a representative of, for example, the people who voted in this way. The Social Democrats. Instead, we are in this situation by not allowing this, if it is that the Socialists do not want to be involved in it, it seems as if you do not want to, even on this point that you are creating too much mystery about things. Why not demystify this case, which the Danes are very concerned about?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419143932	The second brief remark is 30 seconds, next time. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419143937	I think we agree that the actual structure of the Court of Justice is quite fair to discuss, and I also think that it would be different if we were to try to construct a similar structure today. I am not sure what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is raising for Jens Peter Christensen, namely that the solution to the problem he points to back in 2003 should be that there should be openness. I know it wasn't part of that consideration back then, but maybe I'm wrong. Nevertheless, the solution is that because there is a challenge with bias, there must be openness, because then what is going on will be less misguided, an end that I do not really agree with. In fact, I believe that it will only put pressure on whether you have now voted in accordance with what the party thinks in public, and thus get much more politicisation of this trial, which we really do not want.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419144031	Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419144033	I'm just gonna try to sum up a little bit of what's been said. Well, one of the reasons why the Supreme Court doesn't take a position on the issue of guilt... just for the sake of good order... is that this question has been tried in several bodies. And when it comes to the Court, there is only one body. That is why we need to take a decision both on guilt and on other questions of principle. I'm just saying that 'cause mr. Jeppe Bruus just suggested that this was not such a matter of principle. Having said that, I would just like to follow up on Mr. Peter Skaarup's question. Will Mr. Jeppe Bruus agrees with me that since the Tamil case there have been discussions about which of the politically appointed judges voted what, and that this is also what current Supreme Court judge Jens Peter Christensen points out in the writing he has produced and the criticism he has made of the Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419144144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419144145	Now, I have dealt with the Court of Justice a great deal recently, and I can see that it is true that there have subsequently been some guesswork and writings about who voted what. As I know, there has not been a full publication of it; even then it was closed, just as it is today. And I quite agree with that, and I think I have explained that this is a special case. But it is certainly a special construction, and I think that the construction itself is fair to discuss. I just do not agree with the argument that there to avoid mystery etc. shall be open to the public. On the contrary, I believe that it will create even more politicisation, including with regard to the voice of individual judges. And that's not in anyone's interest, is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419144239	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419144241	Well, the point is that ever since the Tamil case, we have been discussing who actually voted what. And that has cast a shadow over the politically appointed judges who were there at the time. Why not remove the doubts and then say that the political judges are, of course, named, so that they really do remove doubts as to whether they have followed their party political groups here in the Folketing or whether they have followed their own convictions after hearing the substance of the matter within the Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419144316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419144317	I am moving a little on thin ice in relation to my knowledge of it, but I have simply not met anyone who has felt pressured. I know it has been the case that after the Tamil case there have been some of the judges who have told me what they have voted. However, I do not have the impression that there has been such a great deal of pressure on those who have not then reported what they have voted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419144341	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Bruus. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419144359	Thank you. Paragraph 59 of the Constitution deals with the composition of the Court of Justice, and the same provision then states that the other unspecified rules must be laid down by law. This has been done in the impeachment law, and Article 68 of the impeachment law states that the judges will vote, but without mentioning the names of the judges. Today, as you know, the Court of Justice consists of 15 Supreme Court judges and 15 judges. The judges are elected by the Folketing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Folketing, which means that in practice the parties of the Folketing appoint the judges concerned. Who, then, will be appointed? After all, they are sympathisers of the parties concerned, they are party members, and they may be former members of parliament. That's the way it is. We know that works that way. That is to say, a number of judges in an impeachment case have been appointed because they are actually ill-advised. I think I have to repeat that: a number of judges in an impeachment case have been appointed because they are ill-advised. You think it's a lie, but that's the way it is, and it's in stark contrast to the way the court system works. Paragraph 60 of the Code of Procedure states that it is not permissible to act as a judge in a case if one is interested in the outcome of the case, and Paragraph 61 also states that it is not permitted to act if there are circumstances which are appropriate to call into question the full impartiality of the judge. I should just like to say that this is the very opposite of what we have in the law of impeachment. This is where you're appointed because you're biased. It is criticised, as the proposer correctly described it in the bill, by Jens Peter Christensen, and with good reason. As he has been referred to as writing, it is a problem based on a legal requirement to ensure party political independence and impartiality. He also mentions that it is difficult to maintain confidence that the party members in the Court of Justice will be able to disregard the party groups in the Folketing's position in relation to the decision on impeachment...... Clearly, it cannot be said. The system that I have just outlined, we in the Left would like to change, so it was, for example, the 15 Supreme Court judges who decided the case ended. That would be far more reassuring in terms of legal certainty than the system we have today. But it doesn't help much to make those statements, because the cases that are going on are running according to the rules in force and it's also customary and if we change those rules, the changes do not apply to cases that have already been brought. If we look at criminal proceedings and that is what impeachment is best compared to, here in the impeachment case there is such a risk that judges and jurors will not be named at any time, and this also applies, as mentioned in the Court of Justice, to the conclusion of the judgment, in relation to who voted what. It is exactly the same thing that happens in criminal proceedings, and the procedural rules are almost the same. There is a presentation, evidence, documentation, witness hearing, etc. etc. My guess is that when the rule that judges should not be named is written into the impeachment law, this is probably due to the starting point that previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, namely that the judges in question are at risk of being brought into a dull situation if they should name themselves. Let's say there is a judge who has resigned from the SF who understands sympathy for the defendant and votes for an acquittal and then has to go back to the SF and tell that it was so. It may well be that a certain spiritual spanking awaits there, and of course also vice versa, if a member of the Danish People's Party, for example, votes against an acquittal. I think that's what's causing it. That is at least the legitimate reason which must be given today in order to maintain the rule in question. So summa summarum I would say that the rules of a football match that is in progress should not be changed. It has to run according to the rules that were in force when the game was whistle-blowed. The judges must also be aware of the terms of the settlement, and I do not think that every time there is an impeachment case this will hardly be the last case that can go in and look at: Is there now some rules here that we should have changed. Now we're gonna do it with TV on? So we're gonna drop the testimonies now? After all, the people in question have given evidence once. Should we change other things? Finally, I have mentioned the circumstances surrounding what I called spanking at home in the party. It is therefore also in favour of maintaining the current rules. But summa summarum I would like to see the whole impeachment complex completely changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419144917	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419144922	The rules should not be changed for a football match that is in progress. We can therefore agree on that if it was any football match. There's a football game every week, as Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen knows, by virtue of his hopefully as elected in North Jutland, very intense commitment in favour of AaB or something like that. There's a football game every week, right? But in relation to the Court of Justice there is certainly no football match every week; it is perhaps once in every generation that we get an impeachment case unless this impeachment case against Mrs Inger Løbberg is the starting point for a completely new yardstick. You might think it was. But, okay, there's one fight; there's one impeachment in the generation we're more or less part of now, for mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, and this is impeachment here. Was it not reasonable enough, then, that one took a deep and thorough start in Denmark anno 2021 and looked at what the conditions are, what the democratic debate is like, what the insight into what is going on around all these things is? What is the wish out there to see what is going on, including in relation to seeing what position these individual judges have on matters? I think we could easily do that, and that is actually the starting point for this bill. Shouldn't we do it together?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419145046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419145046-2	But Mr. In my opinion, Peter Skaarup is responsible for the same mistake as in the previous proposal we were debating here today. We are not in the process of adopting the rules of a particular trial, in this case the pending case. We are perhaps in the process of amending the impeachment law. So it cannot be said that we should do this in this particular case. I cannot help but make a comparison which I do not think I was able to make, namely that this may not be the last impeachment we see. Would it then be the case that if one of the current ministers comes before the Court of Justice, we will go three months after asking: should we not make television broadcasts? And what do you say we may not interrogate witnesses? We are also adopting a rule that, in other words, the Commission's witness hearing, which takes place in the presence of a judge, must be sufficient; or that the procedure of lawyers does not need to take place, etc. In my opinion, therefore, we cannot set up a set of rules applicable to the individual case. It must be general rules that apply to the present case to the extent that they apply today. And if you want to change them, yes, they also apply to future cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419145158	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419145200	There should of course be no doubt at all that when the Danish People's Party can support this proposal, it is because we generally think that in future impeachment cases, too, the one that is coming now must run according to these rules of the game. Court cases are so special, they are political. We've been through a huge legal process; we've been through all sorts of things in here in Parliament. Preben Bang Henriksen too. It's a very special case. It's not a normal trial. This is a very special case. When there is so much popular interest in seeing everything that is going on and what politicians are doing and because, in self-view, a tweet, a facebook update to get all facets of what is going on in an impeachment case, why can't we know what the judges' point of view is? It's out of my mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419145256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419145256-2	Yeah, well, it puts a lot of pressure on me to help it into sir. Peter Skaarup's understanding, but I shall do my very best to say that it is not excluded to change these rules, but in the view of the Left it is impossible to change the rules for ongoing cases, according to my example from before. When the next impeachment comes, it is so that we in the Danish Parliament are going to decide a few months into this matter what rules we should actually take to make for that particular case. And that's what I have the impression about this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419145327	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. And welcome to Mr. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419145351	As has probably emerged from the debate, the Danish People's Party is very much in favour of this proposal, just as we are also very much in favour of television broadcasting from the impeachment case, and it is not because we are about to set up a whole lot of new rules for legal proceedings in Denmark. No, it's because the impeachment case is a special thing. It is a political matter, and it is a matter that has come from the Folketing, where a majority has decided that a former minister should stand before the Court of Justice. We can discuss this for and against, but we have decided to do so. Those who come to the Court of Justice are people who are used to politics, who are used to being officials or politicians, and they can therefore easily tolerate the mosten. It is a strict political matter in this way; therefore, it is also reasonable that there is full insight into the matter and that it is possible to see what the judges are assessing in each case. I think that when Jens Peter Christensen, as a Supreme Court judge, has problematized the way in which the Court of Justice has composed, and others have done so, among other things. with the argument that there may be a problem in the fact that there are a number of people with quite obvious ties with the political parties who are involved in judging the impeachment case, yes, you can choose more ways of dealing with the treatment we have in here. Then you can choose to say that it all has to be changed. But we do not have time for that, and in this way some people are right that this matter has more or less been set in motion. However, we can respond to the criticism that has been made so far that there must be better insight into what is going on in the Court of Justice. That is why we say: then let us do it openly and honestly, what is going on, instead of putting things under the carpet in some way. And so you risk that, if that is the case, you do not create sufficient transparency about these things. We are some who remember the Tamil case at the time, and there it was, as several people know, very controversial how this whole process was running. There was distens, and who was it, etc. etc.? This is also true in relation to a number of cases before the courts today. The Supreme Court has cases where there are some Supreme Court judgments that mean something, while others think otherwise. In this way, this kind of thing at the Supreme Court is not to compare with this case. This case is very special because it is an impeachment case, and so will future impeachment cases. That is why we in the Danish Parliament must be careful to make what is going on open and transparent. We simply have to keep up with time; and so we do not do so when a majority in here at Christiansborg insists that we do not want to make things open to the Danes. So I really hope that those parties who are opposed to granting the Danes access to documents can say that in these things that are going on, after all, they will think twice about this, and there will be an opportunity for that. For now it is a legislative proposal that is before the first reading today, and then we can ask a number of questions at committee reading and we can make amendments, and then we can deal with the matter here later in the spring and summer before the impeachment case itself starts after the summer. So there is really a good opportunity to do what we have to do before the real battle starts, as Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen was involved in this very special struggle, born of what a majority in the Danish Parliament would like, namely to conduct an impeachment case. So I think in every possible way that there are arguments in favour, and I see no arguments against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419145806	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Halime Oguz of the Socialist People's Party. Sorry, we'll take the next one. It's sir. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419145955	Thank you for the floor. The Radical Left believes that a bill such as this should be taken up in the context of a general discussion of the Court of Justice on a later occasion. The bill follows in the stream of slippage on the very primitive proposal made at second reading of the impeachment speech. At that time it was proposed that MEPs should vote by roll call in order to make it clear who voted what. The sheep were to be separated from the goats, the very absurd argument was to vote by roll call rather than with our electronic voting machines. The same is true of this proposal, because, according to Article 64 of the Constitution, judges are obliged to vote in accordance with the law, and this bill does not change that. This bill is also based on a rather loose basis. The Radical Left would like to take part in looking at whether something should be changed in general terms at the Court of Justice, but this requires a somewhat larger starting point than the one that has just been proposed with this proposal. I believe that the main reason why the proposal is being tabled is to personalise those who vote or argue in a certain way. This is not an ambition shared by the Radical Left, which is why we cannot support the bill on this basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419150110	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Rosa Lund from the Red Greens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419150136	Thank you. In several cases, the politically appointed judges are politicians and thus those who are used to standing by what they think, and the judges of the Supreme Court are also used to seeing what they think in the individual case. This is what Mrs Inger Løbberg said when she made this proposal publicly in the press. One may be inclined to agree with her in the sense that, as a judge in a trial, one must of course stand by one's vote in connection with the judgment. But there is also a reason why we do not have the names of judges and jurors in criminal proceedings in the courts of the city and the country. In fact, there are several good reasons for this. One of them is, of course, that we should not get into a situation in which ordinary people who are obliged to be jurors in a court of law should fear reprisals in connection with a judgment. The fact that we, as elected representatives, have appointed members of the Court of Justice does not mean that they are thus politically elected. After all, we elect Members in connection with parliamentary elections, that is, before we know at all whether there will be an impeachment case. By the way, this is done after every parliamentary election. We elect Members so that we ensure a good representation of the people. And then we elect Members who we believe can act as objective judges, and not Members who we know agree with our own assessment of the case, just as when jurors are appointed in ordinary criminal proceedings. The appointed members of the Court of First Instance shall deal with what is presented to them in court. They shall carry out an assessment of the evidence and a legal assessment, irrespective of the colour of the lot, but only on the basis of what was presented in the Court of First Instance. What the reasons for wanting to have the names of the individual votes are does not seem obvious, and I look forward to hearing what Mrs Inger Løbberg herself has for reasons. I certainly hope that it is not to be able to say: see for yourself, all the red judges voted against me. In any case, I do not think that is a very good argument, but I should refrain from putting arguments in front of the proposer. I would just like to emphasise that as a judge, you have a duty to vote according to what you think is right and not according to what your party thinks. After all, we do not know in advance what the member appointed by the Danish People's Party will vote, and that is exactly how it should be in an impeachment case. After all, the fact that we do not know this in advance, nor do we know it afterwards, also gives the politically appointed Members a better condition for voting on the basis of the legal assessment they are making. Because there can be no doubt that there is a great deal of pressure on Members of the Court of Justice. However, if there is also to be public opinion about individual votes, we run the risk that in a few cases this might lead to some feeling that they may not be able to vote according to their convictions, and that would be a real shame. One could, for example: well imagine it's a thoughtful example... that the member appointed by the Danish People's Party will feel very pressure to vote for an acquittal even before the case has begun. By keeping the rules as they are today, where the names behind the individual votes are not published, we ensure that, as a nominated member of the Enhedslisten, you can vote in favour of an acquittal, as well as nominated by the Danish People's Party, if that is the legal assessment they have made, and they can do so without worrying about how the outside world will deal with them afterwards. Because it doesn't matter who the judges are in Denmark. You cannot know what the judges in Denmark will think and vote in advance, because that depends not on politics but on law. And even though politics and public courts are closely linked, law has nothing to do with the People's Court. So, in order to ensure that Mrs Inger Løjberg is given as objective and fair a trial as possible, Enhedslisten cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419150613	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419150618	I have just given some thought to the argument put forward by Mrs Rosa Lund. In other words, the argument is that it could in some way harm a Member of the Court of Justice if it came to the conclusion what he was voting in connection with the assessment of the impeachment case. Could it be imagined that it could be a proposal, Enhedslisten also included in the Folketing, so that here, as members of parliament, we should also have a secret vote, because it might harm members of the Folketing if we voted in a certain way? Is that a relevant thought that comes out here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419150653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419150654	No, it certainly isn't, and as sir. Peter Skaarup may also remember, the Enhedslisten actually supported the Danish People's Party's proposal that when voting on the Court of Justice, we should all vote in, and so we were ready to support your motion for a roll call.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419150709	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419150710	However, can Mrs Rosa Lund not then explain a little more in depth what exactly is supposed to harm a Member who may have been appointed by the Enhedslisten and who is sitting in the Court of Justice. What exactly is it that would be so harmful to the person if it appeared that he had voted in a certain way in connection with the Court of First Instance? What is so harmful about it, or is it not really just a question of openness and openness that the Enhedslisten generally wants, in relation to what is happening in the public space around the people's regime in here? Is it not just a question of being able to get to know what is going on in the central parts of our political life, including impeachment cases, which are, after all, a strict political matter, in that it is the Folketing and it is the politicians who decide that there should be an impeachment case?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419150801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419150802	Well, I'm glad to hear that, sir. Peter Skaarup himself mentions political life. Indeed, there is a very great difference between the work we do in this Chamber and the work that is being done in a court of law, including the work that is being done at the Court of First Instance. We could never say that it should not be public what we vote for in the Folketing, because we stand at the goal of our political positions. These people have to measure up to their legal judgements. They should not be judged on the basis of their political views, but precisely on the basis of legal judgements, and that is, Mr President. Peter Skaarup, the big difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419150838	The questioner? No, he's had two questions. The next is Mrs. Inger Løjberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419150849	Thank you. Imagine that one should hear Mrs Rosa Lund say that the beautiful thing is that we do not have public access. I'll tell you what. I had not imagined that Mrs Rosa Lund could get over her lips, but nevertheless that was what was said here. Moreover, one might also have some doubts as to whether Mrs Rosa Lund has even read the comments on my draft law here in relation to the things that have been said. However, I would like to know whether Mrs Rosa Lund agrees that after the Tamil case a shadow was cast over the politically appointed judges because there was a great deal of discussion about whether they had voted, as their party groups in the Folketing did when the impeachment case was raised. And I would like to hear whether Mrs Lund can agree that if the names are actually in public and that says what you have voted, then you are beyond that debate and admit that there can actually be arguments in favour of that, at least that is how I see it myself, that there is thus a protection of the politically appointed judges who sit in the Court of Justice. And, by the way, I would just like to say that the Supreme Court judges do this normally, and this must be what can best be compared to a Supreme Court case and not to a court case, as Mrs Rosa Lund did at the beginning.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419151014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419151015	Now I've just been trying to find the quote myself. I am quite convinced, Mrs Inger Nøjberg, that what I said was that the beauty is that there is no political pressure on the politically appointed judges, and not that the beauty is that there is no openness. I am absolutely convinced that is not what I said. And then I have to say to the Tamil case: I would like to read it out a little, because I was not so old when the Tamil case was going on, so I do not feel the same way in my memory, but I would still venture to say that I think it is reasonable that this political pressure cannot arise on the political judges who have just to make a legal assessment and do not have to experience any pressure, either from me, from Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen or from Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419151101	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419151103	When the Enhedslisten appoints judges to the Court of Justice, is it the case that people are appointed who, in general terms, look at things as they do in the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20210419151115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419151117	Like all other parties, we appoint one who is a member of the party, and we want to protect that person in order to be able to make the legal assessment, because it may well be that that person arrives at a different legal assessment from the assessment made by the Enhedslisten Parliamentary Group. So I would like to emphasise, Mrs Inger Løbberg: the reason why we do not want names to be given here is precisely to ensure that it will be the correct legal assessment that is being made so that these judges do not experience any pressure from either side, but just have room and space to make the correct legal assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419151153	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are no more brief comments. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Mai Mercado of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419151218	Thank you for the floor, President. Today it is already the case that what the judges of the Supreme Court vote is published with name mention, but it is also the case that it is not public what lay judges in the form of jurors or judges vote. And these are basic principles that we support in the Conservative People's Party. This also means that we can immediately be positive about getting the drill out of what it will be important if the judges' votes in an impeachment case are published. And here it would have been nice if you had had some hearing answers you could have leaned on, so you could have seen what the Court of Justice thinks, what the DJF thinks, and what all the others think. However, there is no consultation response to such a bill, so unfortunately we cannot be told this before the first reading. We are somewhat more concerned when it comes to judges who are lay judges. One should not fear as a lay judge to be met by angry people on the street who disagree with the decision one has made or to be subjected to reprisals for the sole reason that one has been a judge in an impeachment; there we must protect our lay judges. So, in the committee procedure that is coming, we would therefore like to have examined and also to put a little more emphasis on what the consequences of the full publication of all judges, i.e. both the legal and the lay judges, could be. And, as I said, it would have been nice to have a consultation note so that you could have seen in advance what the concerns had been. For good reasons, we do not have that today, and that is why we are going to ask a number of questions to the Ministry of Justice and also hear the Ministry's concerns about the present draft law. So we are not voting in favour of the draft law as it stands, although we can see that there are potentially positive tactics in the section relating to legal judges.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419151420	Thank you to Mrs Mai Mercado. There are no brief comments. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419151447	Thank you. New citizens can support the bill. I think it is obvious that when judges are appointed politically and you simply cannot know how they have voted, there may be suspicions that they are governed by their political convictions, which divides the entire institution of impeachment. And that can be done with this proposal: that you have the opportunity to publish how they have dealt with the issue of guilt. So I do not see any reason why that proposal should not be accepted, but I can hear that some of the other parties do not. But we certainly support it on the part of the New Citizens' Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419151539	Thank you, sir. Peter Seier Christensen. There are no brief comments. And that's why we move on to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419151606	Thank you. We don't support the bill. One can discuss the composition of the Court of Justice and whether the fathers of the Constitution thought properly when they said that half should have been appointed by the parties. However, I believe that what happens when, as appointed by a party, you enter an impeachment as a judge or jury, or whatever it is called, is that you become part of a legal environment and you are influenced by the fact that half of the judges sitting there are from the Supreme Court. You sit for 30 days listening to a trial that is running, and I think that you are being positively influenced to think about the matter in legal terms and not in political terms unless you publish the individual judge's vote, because then I am very nervous that for example. The appointed representative of the Enhedslisten in this case does not dare to vote in favour of an acquittal of the Minister, just as I am concerned that the appointed representative of the Danish People's Party does not dare to vote in favour of a verdict against the Minister in this matter, that is to say because they are too anxious that their parties will be dissatisfied with their judgment. So it is very important, precisely because people are appointed by parties, that the parties cannot subsequently check whether they have voted or pronounced in the same way as the parties would have done on political grounds. So that's why we're against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419151743	Thank you. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mrs Inger Løbberg, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419151759	I can already say, as I did in dealing with the previous draft law, that I simply do not understand that the parties which normally argue for greater openness are doing everything they can to prevent transparency on the forthcoming impeachment case. And, as I said earlier, an impeachment case is very, very different from ordinary criminal proceedings. The charge has been raised by a majority of the Folketing, the charge concerns the performance of a minister, and half of the impeachment judges are politically appointed by the Folketing. One could hardly imagine an arrangement that was more appropriate to cast doubt on the impartiality of the Court of Justice. It is not, after all, an assessment that I am left alone with. For the Supreme Court Judge and Professor Dr. Jur. Jens Peter Christensen has previously written that the party political affiliation of the politically appointed members of the impeachment is a problem based on a legal and security desire to ensure party political independence and impartiality. For it is essential to maintain confidence that the party members in the Court of Justice will be able to disregard the party groups in the Folketing's position in relation to the decision on the impeachment. It is a doubt that I and it is really important for me to emphasise that the idea should be used in the ground, and the best means for that is openness. After all, we can hardly achieve the reform advocated by Jens Peter Christensen in the interests of the need for confidence in the independence and impartiality of justice. But less so, I can do so because, as Anton Geist from Information wrote, and this is a quote: the proposal to publish the votes of the judges makes particularly good sense because half of them have been politically appointed. It is relevant for the public to see whether there is a picture of a correlation between their votes and their positions in the parties for which they have been appointed. And if that is not the case, the public, in relation to their voices, will be able to dispel such suspicions. Quote out. It is precisely this suspicion that has been hanging over the members of the Court of Justice who voted against the conviction against Erik Ninn-Hansen in the Tamil case for many years. Was it the bourgeois members of the Court who voted against at that time? This has been widely discussed for many years. And frankly, I do not think that we can be familiar with exposing the politically appointed judges to such speculations again. After all, it is quite simply very easy to avoid, with openness about the votes of individual judges, as is already the case in the Supreme Court today, so it is known. Quite frankly, I am somewhat sorry that there is such a poor reception of this proposal among a number of particularly the very red parties here in the Folketing. At the same time, however, I am incredibly pleased with the support I have received from a number of bourgeois parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419152205	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419152212	Thank you for that and thank you for the detailed argument. I understand that Mrs Inger Løjberg argues for her proposal that people are concerned about the suspicion of judges, and I think that is only interesting. Because it is precisely on the basis of the same argument that we in the Enhedslist are arguing against the proposal, precisely because we do not want to risk being in a situation where judges are suspected that they are now just voting for party color or they are now not voting for party color because they are afraid to be suspicious. It is just to say, Mrs Inger Løjberg, that it is precisely the same argument that we do not think it should be public.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419152251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419152254	Yes, this should not be the first time we have looked at things completely in the opposite direction. In fact, I think it is very characteristic that you and I look at the world completely differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419152307	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419152312	On the other hand, it is so difficult to disagree. However, I would like to ask Mrs Inger Løjberg if Mrs Inger Løjberg can admit that there is a difference between wanting to have more openness in the management of the central administration and the work we are doing here and the work that is going on in a court of law. I just think that during the last two debates it has been referred to as if it were the same thing, but it is not. Because these are two very different things. In a courtroom you have a judge and some jurors who have to decide some things where you have a completely different need for people to control democracy by having openness in managing the central administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419152349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419152351	Yes, but what Mrs Lund is arguing for today, especially in the draft law that we had just before, is, in fact, if we are to transfer it to the Public Access Act, that it should say that authorities can grant access to documents if they believe that access to documents should be granted. Mrs Rosa Lund would never accept that, just as Mrs Rosa Lund would never accept that the press should merely refer to the documents they receive but should not publish them. So the two of us here again see the world completely differently and, as I said, it is not the first time, and I am absolutely sure that this is not the last time we will run into that problem either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419152436	Mr President, there is one more brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419152441	This whole debate made me think that I must then ask Mrs Inger Løjberg something. Because if you follow the debate on both proposals in this way, and now it is the last proposal we have before us, you might well be able to hear about Mrs Inger Løjberg's agreement with the impression that some parties are voting in favour of an impeachment case which is all against a live transmission to citizens of what is going on in the Court of Justice, and they are also opposed to seeing what individual judges are assessing in the individual case, i.e. in the case of impeachment. But you are actually standing here in the Folketing pretending to be a little in favour of openness, and you are also a little in favour of seeing how many people voted in favour and how many voted against etc. etc. Can Mrs Inger Løjberg say a little about her assessment of this schism? Because it's in and out of a strange debate that we have in here about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419152542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419152543	At any rate, I can say that I have also seen it as a rather strange debate today, and, above all, because it is precisely the same parties that are at least very far along the way, if you look at the left, and here I also see the Radical Left as a large part of that ■ which, when it comes to the Public Service Act and all sorts of other places, argues in all possible ways for increased openness, but here you just as well skim the cream. So, yes, you pretend to be in favour, but you vote so completely against when it comes to it. So it's been a weird experience, yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419152623	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419152624	Yes, and I also think that we then have the view in the Danish People's Party that we should allow live transmission and that we should allow us to see what the judges think. But it is not really so much, I am sorry to say, for the sake of Mrs Inger Løjberg, who is sitting on the dock, it is actually more, because the whole instrument around the impeachment case, with the rare time that you take it out of your pocket, needs to be able to keep up with time. Well, it needs the Danes to gain insight, just as the Danes have insight into what we tweet or what we write on Facebook or what we have of debates in here. It's Denmark 2021, and then it seems a little strange that you pretend to want more openness and something like that. But apparently you don't want to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419152712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419152713	No, it is also my experience, and I can also say that, when you sit and listen to the debate, it is simply a little difficult to find your head and tail in it, and for me this is certainly not a desire in any way to make this a performance or anything else. This is a desire to increase the public, so that the Danes who wish to keep up have an opportunity to keep up and, as I said in my first rapporteur's speech, there is just a difference. The truck mechanic, who lives in Holstebro, can not just come over here for some thirty days and follow the impeachment case, but the lawyer from Frederiksberg can do that more easily. So there is also a democratic problem in this, I think that there is no desire for openness.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419152809	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I would suggest that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. If none of you object, it is adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210419152827	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Tuesday, 20 April 2021, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
