ParlaMint-DK_20210202174003	The meeting is open. There are the following messages: From a member of the Folketing, Ida Auken, who is on leave, I have been informed that from 3 February 2021 onwards she will be able to rejoin the Parliament. The term of office of Mr Kids Kidde as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. Ida Auken has also informed me that on 29 January 2021 she has resigned from the Radical Left Parliamentary Group and has joined the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202174036	The items listed as No. 3, 4, 5 and 6 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202174108	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202174254	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202174322	A vote can be taken. That concludes voting time. In favour, 92 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 4 (NB and LA), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202174455	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202174505	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1-3 by the Minister for Employment, as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202174516	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202174522	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. That concludes voting time. In favour 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202174620	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202174624	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. That concludes voting time. In favour 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202174713	The bill has been referred back to committee. That is why this item has been postponed until a little later in this sitting and we shall move on to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202174728	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202174736	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 3 of a minority (LA) rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4, joined by the Committee? It's agreed. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 5 of a minority (LA) rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 6-30, member of the committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then we will just jump back to the item on the agenda that we have just postponed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202174847	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202174852	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. That concludes voting time. In favour, 93 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, LA, ALT, Susanne Zimmer (UFG) and Uffe Elbæk (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions 2 (NB). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202174942	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202174948	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-18, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)) on amendments No. 22 and 23 outside the report by the Minister for Taxation or on Amendments Nos. 19-21, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG))? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I shall now suspend the sitting for 15 minutes. This will allow us to clean the seats and move everyone back to the normal seats in the voting system. I would therefore ask everyone to leave the Chamber in good order. The sitting will resume today at 1 p.m. 6:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202180504	The sitting shall resume. The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202180530	Thank you for the floor. Let me start by stating that I agree with the Danish People's Party that there is a need for new initiatives in the field of affairs, first of all because the passport is one of the most important documents of authority we have. We all know how important it is to take good care of our passports, yet a lot of passports disappear every year. Among other things: Therefore, as part of the multi-year agreement between the police and the prosecution, we have introduced a rule into the passport law that the passport fee is doubled if the applicant cannot present a valid passport or an expired passport in connection with the application for the renewal of the passport, as well as if the applicant can only present a broken passport. And this is really an initiative that we took in the negotiations, because we are aware of the fact that so many passports are being lost, and this is a way of saying that we must be careful here. In addition to that, we have also increased the passport fee for all those who receive passports, except pensioners. And these new rules should help motivate the Danes to take better care of their passports and, of course, also help to avoid fraud and abuse. When it is important, it is because the Danish passport is considered to be one of the most advantageous and access-giving documents in the world, and it is important that we safeguard the international trust in the Danish passport. We have, of course, gained that confidence because we are a respected country and a country that can be trusted. Therefore, missing space can also pose a potential security risk for Denmark and for our neighbouring countries, which is why it is of course necessary to focus on passport security, so that we minimise the risk that shady people abuse Danish passports for illegal purposes. The motion for a resolution that we have before us falls into three parts. Firstly, the pick-up of passports can only take place at a personal appearance at the municipality and at the presentation of photo ID. In 2019 there was a loss of approx. 1,200 passports in the mail. That is more than four times as many as in 2015; it is, of course, unacceptable. And on that basis, I think that this is one of the parts of the proposal that we need to continue working on. Secondly, it is proposed that passport photos should be taken only by the municipality's citizens' service in connection with the passport order. As the rules are today, you can choose as a citizen whether you want a passport photo with a citizen's service at the same time as the application, or whether you want a passport photo with the local photo dealer. The municipality shall reject the application if the municipality has doubts as to whether the applicant's passport photo is genuine and if the applicant otherwise refuses to take a new photo. Scams about applications for passports from the municipalities are not only related to the recording of photos. There is also a need for municipalities to be able to access all Therefore it is relevant and the government would like to examine how we limit the issue of passports on the basis of false attachments. The question of how passport photo should be taken will be a natural part of that study, I think. Thirdly, the Danish People's Party proposes that citizens should only be able to obtain a new passport, in addition to the original passport, during the period of validity of the original passport. Today a Danish passport is typically valid for 10 years. In 2019 more than 33,000 passports were reported lost. Some were stolen, others lost, and others were again probably hidden in some drawer. It is a significant problem that so many lose their passports because, as I said at the outset, the passport is an important document that we must take good care of, and therefore I agree with the intentions behind the proposal to limit the number of passports that a citizen can obtain within a specified period of time. But is it not to go to the strict side of saying that you can only get two passports within a 10-year period? I am afraid that if we make the cut there, we risk hitting ordinary citizens extremely hard. Citizens who unfortunately lose or have more than two passports stolen within 10 years will actually find it difficult to go abroad, for example on holiday, on a business trip or for that matter to settle there. There are also citizens who, through their duties, need more than one passport because they travel a lot and therefore need many displays. For them too, the proposal will be a major nuisance. So the government will in no way accept that Danish passports are abused or falsified. And that is why I also indicated in December 2019 that I will examine how the negative developments in relation to the number of lost passports can be slowed down. Therefore, in cooperation with the National Police and Special Branch, I am developing initiatives to strengthen passport security in Denmark. The initiatives are expected to be part of a future initiative that the government will present during this year. The government therefore basically agrees that we must safeguard the Danish passport and strengthen passport security, but the government cannot support the resolution. Later this year, we will present our proposals on how to strengthen passport security. And it is my hope that by then we will be able to gather a broad majority in the Folketing to support those proposals. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202181128	Thank you. Before there is a brief comment, I would just like to say that, if you are going to have longer conversations, I would ask that Members keep the longer conversations a little further away from here, because the sound actually goes directly to the platform up here. Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202181152	Thanks to the Minister for Justice for his speech and, what can be said, a relatively positive reception of the ideas contained in the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. I think it is satisfactory that the Minister will really look at what can be done to improve the security of our passports. Let me just remind you, as the Minister has also said, that Danish passports or Scandinavian passports are indeed sought after on the market and probably more sought after than if you bring passports from a South American banana republic. There is no doubt about that. But what I would like to ask the Minister here is: when the Minister says to the Danish Parliament that later this year the government will come up with a proposal which one hopes for a broad majority in the Danish Parliament can support, when is it, and can one say a little more precisely what the content will be? Well, later in the year, there's a lot of things. There are also times we have discussed when a government says that they will bring something this summer, when summer will be. There is such a tendency, when I look at the dates, that I often see that later this year is on 23 December or something like that. I hope it isn't, but can the Minister come a little closer?
ParlaMint-DK_20210202181309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202181312	It's not supposed to be a Christmas present in that sense. Later in the year we are simply working on initiatives now across the National Police and PET and trying to find solutions, and since I don't really know exactly what the content is yet, and since we haven't really put the paragraphs yet, I can't know when exactly we are done. But what is promised is that the proposal will come in the course of this calendar year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202181347	Sir. Peter Skaarup? No. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Then we start with the rapporteurs, and while the Minister of Justice gets the alcohol off and handed the platform nicely to his party colleague, I can say that the next rapporteur is Mr. Jeppe Bruus of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202181411	Thank you. Increased passport security is, of course, difficult to oppose, and many of the initiatives mentioned in the motion for a resolution at least some of them have been partially taken into account in the police agreement reached by most of us at the end of last year, and some of them will also be met with the initiatives that the government is taking on board, as the Minister of Justice mentioned. After all, we have a time here in the middle of the coronatide, where we are trying a little to limit the number of motions for resolutions. I must also confess that this may have been one of those where one might have thought about the urgency of discussing this issue. It's a rebirth. I should like to be a little hesitant about that. That does not alter the fact that we share or respond to much of the intention of this motion for a resolution in terms of content. We are not going to support it in the Social Democracy, and I am also going to say, on behalf of the SF, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten, that they do not support this proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202181516	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then we have the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202181539	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for raising the issue of passport security in the Parliamentary Chamber. This is not the first time we have discussed the subject. It is of course important that we have good security around our passports so that they are not used by anyone with criminal intentions. So we have a great deal of sympathy for the intention behind this resolution, but we also believe that the funds pointed out by the Danish People's Party are a little beside the dial. After all, the Danish People's Party proposes two things: firstly, that in future you should show up physically at the citizens' service to order and pick up the passport. This seems to us to be going a little too far, and it could be such a bit of collective punishment if all Danes are going to do so in the future. But I understand the intention behind the proposal. The second proposal is that the number of passports should be restricted to the maximum. can get two in 10 years. It sounds like a lot to me, and the vast majority of people do not need two or so and may not even need a new one, but yet we think it is a little off if there are now some citizens who are unfortunate enough to lose the passport twice. It may happen that you unwittingly get to it. So we also think that this is a rather harsh approach to take. But having said that, we quite agree that Danish passports should not end up in the hands of criminals who sometimes sell them on the black market or abuse them in other ways, so that is why we are ready to look at and discuss actions • and I am listening that the government is on the way with some actions • with the aim of strengthening passport security in Denmark. So we fully share the intention, so it will be a friendly rejection of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202181725	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we have reached the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202181746	The motion for a resolution aims to strengthen the security of the issuing of passports and, at the same time, to reduce the number of lost passports. The Danish People's Party proposes that citizens in future should personally collect their passports from the citizens' service, so that the passport should not be carried by post. The image used in the passport must be taken at the same time as the ordering of the passport. Finally, the Danish People's Party proposes to introduce a limitation on the number of times during the ten-year period of validity of the passport you can obtain a new passport due to your loss. Of course, we in the Conservative People's Party agree that high passport security is essential to minimise the risk of passports being misused for illegal purposes. Today you order your passport for a personal appearance at a citizen's service. When the passport is ready, the citizen can choose whether to pick it up personally or to have it sent by post. However, you must always show up in person if you have not returned your last passport to the citizen's service in connection with the application. All of this is fine, but with this proposal the Danish People's Party will, in our view, take an excessive backward step in terms of using the postal service, and it will make life very difficult for many Danes. An example, probably not far away from most, could be a family with more children, who are already heavily excited and struggling to get the ends to meet in a busy everyday life. And now suddenly you want to double the number of times a parent plus a child has to show up at the community service, first because the passport has to be ordered, then because it has to be picked up. We have debated the proposal earlier when we had a Conservative Minister of Justice in the post, and then we voted against it, and we do so this time too. It is our assumption that it will be a great inconvenience for a great many Danes to have to show up personally at the citizens' service. Nor, in our view, will it solve the problem of lost passports, which, with the second part of the proposal, the proposers want to impose a limit on the number of times a citizen can obtain a new passport due to a loss within the ten-year period of validity of the passport. We fear that the proposal will hit ordinary citizens who have either stolen their passports on a holiday or who have forgotten where the passport was hidden after the last holiday. The laws we introduce here in the Folketing, which are important to the Danes, must always be proportionate to the extent of the problem. We do not think this is the case here. We are very happy to enter into a dialogue on how to solve the problem, and we are also very happy to hear the Government's proposals on how the National Police think we can solve the problem. But we should not bother all Danes because they are lost in approx. 200 passports in the mail every year. We should be able to take a targeted approach to cases where there may be a risk of the passport being used for illegal purposes, rather than having to bother all law-abiding citizens with old-fashioned demands and cumbersome procedures. So the Conservative People's Party cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202182112	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then it is the New Citizens' rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202182135	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for presenting the proposal here. Like other parties, we agree with the intention. We are also pleased that in the police agreement we have taken a step along the way by raising the cost of passports if you lose your passport during the period when the passport is still valid. We'd like to go further. We would like to ensure that we do not have people who cheat with Danish passports and that we do not risk people illegally crossing Danish borders with stolen passports. Having said that, we think this is shooting at the target. We think it is very far-reaching in relation to the many ordinary, law-abiding Danes who get their passports, who need their passports, and who are now forced to take half a day or a whole day off to go to community service and pick up their passports. We also think that it is a little far-reaching in relation to what we expect us to actually get out of it. Because it's always the case that these criminal types, although you can bother the Danes with some new rules, find other gaps and other ways of circumventing the rules. So we simply do not believe that it solves the problem. On the other hand, we are quite sure that many people will experience this as a great nuisance. When we got this motion for a resolution into the office, I asked around the office whether this losing the passport was something that people did, because I do not remember that I lost my passport myself, and I thought it was only the criminals who forget their passports in that way somewhere that suddenly it is no longer. I was actually surprised that there were several ordinary, law-abiding citizens among our staff who had experienced losing their passports and some also more than once. That is not an excuse for not doing anything to the criminals, but it is merely evidence that there will be a great many people at risk of getting into trouble, not least if you say that you cannot get a new passport within the ten years that the passport is valid. So we agree with the intention and we would very much like to go further than we have gone into the police agreement, but we think this is out of proportion to the objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202182406	Thank you. There is no brief comment to the rapporteur of the new citizens, so we are through the rapporteurs, apart from the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals, Mr President. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202182429	Thank you and thank you to Parliament's parties for receiving this proposal. We note that the Minister of Justice is interested in relevant parts of the proposal, and perhaps it is almost a bit surprising that the Minister of Justice and the Socialists are the most enthusiastic among the parliamentary parties. That surprises me a little, but that is the way it is, and it is actually positive enough, because it is always good to be ally with those who sit in government. There are a little more opportunities to get something through if you bring them on the wagon. So I welcome that. But otherwise I would say that, unfortunately, it is relevant and serious that we have to discuss it here in Parliament and it has also been discussed in the past. After all, as several people have said, a relatively large number of Danish passports disappear every year, and some of them are found again at just under half, but about two thirds will never be found again, and a new passport will automatically be issued to the persons concerned. Here we have to say that we have a problem when it happens, because there may well be people who are criminals who enjoy a Danish passport very much. As the Minister said, if you want to commit crime or terrorism, it is now relatively sought after. We have seen in the past that there are people coming into Europe, in Denmark and elsewhere, on false passports. That is why we in the Danish People's Party have tabled this proposal. One can say that the question then is: what are we going to do about it? We have tried to make some proposals, and there may be others who also have some good suggestions on what we can do. What is certainly important is that we send out a very strong signal that a Danish passport is something that is valuable and something that needs to be taken care of. Now we have looked at it in the Danish People's Party. We have actually found examples that some have lost their passports 16 times. There are some who have lost their passports 11 times, and there are some who have lost their passports 9 times and others 8 times. Now I do not think that some of them are working in the New Citizens' Secretariat. I certainly hope not, because it is very many times if you lose your passport so many times. Of course there may be a fire, of course it may be a break-in, of course there may be a situation where you will lose a passport. This cannot be ruled out entirely, but when someone loses it 16 or 11 times, you get a little worried as a country, because then there may be some who are interested in delivering it to others who abuse it as a false passport. I would also like to say that if you lose your passport in this way systematically, it is a lack of respect for the passport, or perhaps, as I said, it is really criminals who lose their passports so many times in quotation marks. Everyone knows it's a valuable thing. Hopefully you take care of it, just like you take care of so many other valuables. It's worth something. That is why we must take care of it, and that is why we must ensure that criminals do not obtain Danish passports. Here is one of the problems, as we point out in the motion for a resolution, namely that quite a lot of passports are lost in transit, are lost by sending them from A to B, which means that there are some who get them or that they otherwise disappear in connection with that shipment. We do not know what happens to them, but it is reasonable to imagine that part of the passports sent will be lost by coming into criminal hands. Moreover, this is something that people who have dealt with these matters have been aware of, because there has been systematic abuse in the sense that passports have systematically disappeared through these channels. That is why we need to be aware of this. As legislators in here, we also have to find solutions and try to set the law in line with the reality we find ourselves in. So when it is the case that many passports disappear every year in one way or another, I also believe that we in the Folketing need to act on it and make demands on our authorities and our municipalities that they take better care of those passports so that they cannot be abused. If we adopt this proposal, we will be able to limit the abuse that is taking place and we will be able to ensure that some of the passports that are disappearing today will not disappear. It is whether it's about lameness or it's with real crime in mind. So if you have to order and pick up your passport at a personal appearance, there is at least a greater assurance that they will not disappear, as they do today quite systematically, we can see annually when they are sent by post. And then there is an opportunity for us to make some demands on how many people can be handed over. After all, we are thinking one passport out of the ordinary, and then perhaps there will be some derogations. If you have had a break-in or a fire and can prove it, you may be allowed to lose a passport more, but no more than that, otherwise there is no doubt about abuse when someone loses their passport so many times. Again, a Danish passport is one of the most valuable passports in the world. It gives access and it gives credibility virtually everywhere, because we now have a certain credibility and a certain order of things in Denmark, at least in broad terms. At least that's what we're talking about. We will then have to ensure that there is no abuse of passports and that, after all, we can limit it by implementing some initiatives that we have then presented here by the Danish People's Party. There may be some drawbacks, as some have said, but there can also be some very, very great benefits, by protecting our passports better and making demands on them. So there's a proper thing in this. There's a crime-fighting thing in this. And then there is a greater security perspective, which is extremely important. This is both for the police and for our legal system, but also for our municipalities and the way they deal with things. With that said, we look forward to the Minister for Justice coming later in the calendar year with an initiative that we hope we can nod to. And I do not want to rule out the fact that we will not be satisfied with it and will come up with anything further, and then it may be that the Minister will listen to what the parties say at that time. We'll see about that. But we are certainly looking forward to something happening with the Danish passports, because that is what we need.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202183159	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210202183214	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 3 February 2021, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
