ParlaMint-DK_20211109130016	The meeting is open. I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109130032	Thank you for that, President. The Corona is spreading again in Denmark. The number of infected and inmates is now at a higher level than at the same time last year. We are basically in a different situation than we were last year, first and foremost because we have the vaccines, our superweapons against the epidemic. More than 70%. of the Danish population have been vaccinated, and about 400,000 have been given the third plug. Thank you. Yet the infection is now spreading faster than the health authorities had expected. In the last week more than 17,000 have been confirmed infected with corona, and at the same time the number of inmates has increased by more than 23 per cent. Yesterday, unfortunately, we reached 300 inlaid with corona in the Danish hospitals. The infection is spreading, among other things. from those who have not been vaccinated to those who have been vaccinated, including the elderly and others at risk, who are still at risk of becoming seriously ill despite receiving a vaccine. And these are the ones we need to be careful of. Unfortunately, the increase in infection is also taking place, while our health services are already under great pressure. Health authorities expect that the infection will continue to increase in the coming months, and this, together with influenza and other diseases, will lead to a greater burden on our health services and, unfortunately, also on our staff. The Danish Health Authority describes it as follows: The situation regarding hospital capacity is significantly different and in many ways more worrying than during the previous two epidemic waves of covid-19. It's black and white. If we are to avoid this developing more seriously, we need to take action now to contain the infection. That is why the government will submit to the Epidemic Committee that, in our view, the Covid-19 should again be regarded, in the light of recommendations from the Epidemic Commission, as a social-critical disease, and we will also submit to the Epidemic Committee that the corona Pass should be reinstated in a number of contexts where you either sit close or are many people together. At the same time, the authorities must work intensively and so do they to get more vaccinated and, equally important, to get more re-vaccination with the third stick. The last week we have seen an increase in the number of first-time vaccinations it is very positive and I have of course also noted that many have booked time for vaccination in the last few hours. Thank you so much for accepting the invitation so well and positively. It is important that the test capacity is now also increased. There is intensive work to be done on this. Everything we do now, with the clear objective that Denmark must remain open, that health care should of course not succumb, and that we take care of those who need us to look after them. The political task is, and we have tried it before, to keep the infection down, but the political task in my view is also to ensure that the huge majority of the Danes, all of you who throughout the pandemic have done what they could to get both themselves and society well through, and now have been vaccinated, come as well through the winter as possible with as few obstacles and restrictions as possible. I hope, of course, that all parties in the Folketing will be responsible for supporting these two things. So for something quite different, for it is an extended question hour today with our North Atlantic colleagues: a week ago I had the pleasure of participating in COP26 in Glasgow for the first time with the lagman and with the President of the Naalak Suisut. The Faroe Islands have already acceded to the Paris Agreement and are now working on both ambitious and good initiatives in the climate area. It was a rather fine moment, I think, during the COP, when the President of the Naala Suisut was able to announce that Greenland also now wants to accede to the Paris Agreement. I very much welcome this, and I am proud that the whole Kingdom community will now contribute to the fight against the global climate crisis. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109130446	Thank you, Prime Minister. It is true that we start with the North Atlantic mandates and then with the party leaders. That is why it is now first Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, and first there are two minutes and then two times a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109130457	Thank you and also thank you for your comments on accession to the Paris Agreement. Recently, a contact committee between the governments of Greenland, Denmark and the Faroe Islands was set up. The aim is to involve Greenland and the Faroe Islands more in foreign and security policy. The desire for closer involvement and more equal cooperation is shared by a broad majority at home in Greenland, and at the same time there is a great deal going on in the field of foreign and security policy. But when other countries go to Greenland, our internal relations between each other are also put under wraps. In other words, is there enough community in the Kingdom? It is a fact that Danish youths crave more knowledge of their fellow Kingdoms in Greenland. They are not satisfied with the widespread ignorance, and they are happy to address it through reading letters. A study from Epinion has shown that only 44 percent. of primary school pupils have received instruction about Greenland in the Danish primary schools. Meanwhile, we know that all children at home in Greenland learn about the Danish society and teaching the language Danish virtually throughout the primary school. It is wrong and it is not very dignified that there is such an unequal knowledge of each other in the Kingdom community. When, at the same time, the media only have a limited interest in Greenland, have we in the Folketing done enough? If we allow ourselves to rise up a little in the helicopter, we must also note that knowledge and interest for each other are important in a strategic perspective. This leads me to the first question: How will the government strengthen knowledge about Greenland in relation to children and young people in the Danish primary schools, and how will it help to ensure that a wider audience also get positive stories about Greenland via the media?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109130658	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109130700	Thank you for one, I think, very good question. It is true that everything starts and ends with knowledge and relationships. We have a unique kingdom community; many people envy it and also look at it with some amazement, for there are not really others who have the same construction as we do. I would like to sign for the words that are said, also in relation to the Contact Committee. After all, we are developing the Kingdom Community together, and when security policy moves up on the agenda in the Arctic, the Kingdom Community must be able to deal with it, and we find that we have a really good, very good and trusting cooperation on this. But it starts with knowledge, and it starts with knowledge of each other. I myself had to be very adult before I was able to visit Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and I actually think that is how many people feel. So it would be good to spread knowledge of all parts of the Kingdom community. I know that there is work going on in the Ministry of Education in relation to the teaching and teaching material itself, and I think that committee will soon be done with its work, and hopefully we will have some concrete ideas to discuss further. Then it is always the case that there may be a tendency in our public opinion to focus more on the negative things and the problems that are and not on everything that works well. And there we may have a common task in highlighting how much Denmark wins by the fact that many people live in Denmark both with Faroese and Greenlandic votes and with Faroese and Greenlandic roots, which contribute very, very positively to our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109130828	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109130829	Thank you very much. When Greenland and our position in the Kingdom Community are discussed internationally, for example. in the United Nations, we are highlighted as a role model, especially when we talk about the rights of indigenous peoples. Our self-government is looked at with great admiration, and our model is highlighted as the good example. The Greenlanders represent a majority in Greenlandic society, we have our own self-government, we have our own geographical area and we have the right to our own official language. It is a framework that many indigenous peoples around the world admire and envy, as the Prime Minister also mentioned. In those countries, on the other hand, they are experiencing marginalisation and stigmatisation from the countries that have previously colonised them. When you come from Greenland or from Denmark, you also know that it is not always rosy internally between Greenland and Denmark, and perhaps we do not always live up to that admiration. But what can we do together to promote both the good image that we are for other countries, but also internally to promote the good relationship between each other?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109130935	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109130937	Well, it is true that it is often emphasised globally how we make things work in the Kingdom community. And it is all the more characteristic not only of the Kingdom Community, but also of Denmark, that on the international stage we are often highlighted as a pioneering country, and we do so in the climate area too, and we can be proud of that, and I think we should be proud of that too in the Kingdom Community. But that does not mean that there are no challenges and problems. And I also hear bad jokes about Greenlanders in Denmark. I also experience Greenlanders who tell about racism in Denmark from • now you have to be careful what you say • original Danes, but also from others who have come here. I have not understood, and I am not sure whether I will understand, that there must be ethnic hierarchies in which some others are then kicked down, but that is what we have to say together. And so I think it is true that we must ensure that going to school in Denmark becomes an ordinary part of learning about the kingdom community. It's certainly a natural place to start, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109131046	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for one last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109131049	Thank you. Recently Niviaq Korneliussen received the Nordic Council Literature Prize as the first from Greenland. Her speech she gave to children and young people who think about committing suicide, and that affected a great many of us at home from Greenland. We all know someone who committed suicide, and Greenland has the highest suicide rate in the world. Suicide is a very complicated problem, which also requires many different approaches. Colonial times and the loss of identity, the loss of culture, are certainly also a factor in relation to the many suicides in Greenland. At least the statistics show that. But as Niviaq also points out, it is just as much our welfare system at home in Greenland. I am very much in favour of our addressing the problem at home in Greenland and of our helping to prevent suicide in Greenland as well. IA in the Folketing has pointed to a tightening of arms legislation for which we are responsible here in the Folketing, and we have also pointed to the need for a suicide line for survivors and vulnerable. Is this something that the Prime Minister will support here in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109131156	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109131158	First of all, congratulations on the price, I think one can take the liberty of saying: to the whole of Greenland. It is great and is a broad recognition of the artistic scene that I experience is really in progress in Greenland, not only literary, but also cinematic and in other areas. It is very good and very strong and wonderful that it is recognised with one of the most important literary prizes, so I think we all welcome that. There's not much to enjoy when we talk suicide. It is in every possible way sad and traumatic and has a very, very great influence on the whole of Greenlandic society, for as the questioner says: Everyone in Greenland knows someone who has committed suicide. Everything we can work together on in this area, everything we can help with, of course, we want to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109131243	The question is over. That's why we say thank you. The next question is Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam-Dam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109131259	Thank you. Qujanaq. The Danish picture of Denmark as a well-meaning colonial power is completely out of step with the colonial behavior that I myself experienced in Greenland when I worked there...., Danish Rasmus Theisen wrote to Information on 3 November. Recently, discussions on Greenland's integration system have been held on the Greenland social media. There has been a great deal of criticism about the behaviour of the Danes, but this criticism comes from the Danes themselves. You are now trying to point out that this issue, which we as Greenlanders often try to put into words, is not actually just something that has been taken out of thin air. I have great respect for the Prime Minister's work in Greenland, with greater involvement in foreign policy and cooperation in relation to organizational and structural problems we face. On the other hand, I also think it is important that we look at the close and human aspects of cooperation between the Greenlandic people and the Danish people. Because it is a reality that the post-colonial structures are still seen in our society, and that is why we in Siumut believe that we should delve into some of these issues and explore the possibilities of a Greenlandic integration policy, because, as we know, the area of immigration and integration is a Danish responsibility. Danish citizens who move to Greenland, however, do not have the opportunity to integrate into society; no demands are made, and most do not learn the Greenlandic language. Conversely, Greenlanders who move to Denmark must master the Danish language, and at the same time it is expected that they can navigate in a completely different country without further opportunities for integration, since you are already a Danish citizen. For this reason, I would like to hear the Prime Minister's position on the subject. Will the government be interested in bringing up the lack of integration and integration policy with the Naala Suisut so that the Folketing, in cooperation with Inatsisartut, can draw up a law on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109131459	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109131502	I mean, I dare not say on a stand-by basis whether we need legislation in this area, but I think it is quite right to discuss how we meet each other. It is in the Greenlandic meeting in what can one say, the journey to Denmark • There are quite a lot of Greenlandic roots living in Denmark either part of life, because you often go to school, read and train here, or maybe settle down afterwards because you have family here, or for other reasons. And there are also quite a lot of Danes who, fortunately, come to Greenland in the course of their working life and contribute positively to the Greenlandic society. We know that culture and traditions are one of the hardest things to change, both positive and negative. This is positive because we are rooted in our own roots, and I personally think this is very positive, and it can be negative when we fail to meet each other pragmatically, carefully and properly, which I actually hear the questioner asking for. So I think this is a relevant discussion. Basically, it is crucial that we meet each other with respect, regardless of whether it is in Greenland, in the Faroe Islands or in Denmark, and no matter what function we may have in relation to each other. That is what is fundamental. And if it doesn't work everywhere, it's wise to have the discussion about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109131623	Aki-Matilda Matilda-Høegh-Dam, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109131625	There is precisely a discussion about it in Greenland, as we have some structures that apply in that it can sometimes be difficult not to behave otherwise, and these are some of the structures that we put together with the post-colonial. When you come to Greenland, there are a lot of people in Greenlandic society who unfortunately tend to look up to being Danish, and where some people come to Greenland may have a reason to go to another country to experience something new, and they also need some kind of navigation in the new society they enter. That is why Siumut comes in and says: we are not here to point the finger, but we are here to look at solutions. We think that it is important that we go in and look at the possibilities of integration in what does not exist integration opportunities, as we are the same citizens, but we are two different people and I would like to know if the Prime Minister can see an opportunity for us to develop some kind of policy on that subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109131727	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109131730	Well, basically, I believe that if there is a challenge, we must also try to solve it, and of course we would very much like to discuss how we do that. I guess there are two questioners today orbiting the same thing, namely that it is not always easy in everyday life to make this cooperation work. Nor is it, it can be said, at an overall political level, because sometimes there are conflicts. I now think that we are going to deal with the challenges in all modesty in these years, because we are in the process of developing our Kingdom community and do not think that because the Kingdom community looked a certain way ten years ago or 25 years ago, it must also keep looking the way it did. For countries are changing, the world is changing, climate change has arrived, and then we must also make the Kingdom community move. But I think that in both questions today there are sometimes problems at the very human level. One of the problems I have been faced with is that it is not necessarily easy as a young Greenlander to come to Denmark and should start reading, and perhaps you are here alone. These are challenges that I think we can deal with if we want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109131840	Last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109131842	We look at this very well, also because the Prime Minister himself has expressed a great deal of goodwill towards strengthened cooperation in the Kingdom. We from Siumut believe that one of these problems is one of the causes of these frictions in the population groups, which are very unfortunate. As the Greenlandic artist Josef Tarrak has said: It may be that we are multicultural, but we are not intercultural. There are groupings in the society in Greenland, and I think that we in the Folketing, because it is a Danish responsibility, will have to have a look at that. The last question is that there was an excuse for the experimental children in the last extended Question Time, and we were also involved in it, and there were also hopes that it would lead to more so that it was not a written apology. Are there plans for that to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109131935	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109131937	In fact, I hear that there is a common interest in the fact that we, too, can be said to have emphasised the excuse which I think is justified to the group of so-called experimental children who have, after all, experienced very, very serious consequences of the decisions taken at that time. That is why I am also in contact with the chairman of the Naala Suisut, in relation to when a physical event can be carried out, and I think that would be the best thing to do in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109132009	Thank you. Then the question is over. The next question is Mr. Edmund Joensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109132018	Thank you. For a long time it has been a desire from Faroese to improve conditions around the Department of Criminal Welfare in the Faroe Islands, and that is because the solution with Mjørkadalur is not calculated as being sustainable. The Ministry of Justice, together with relevant authorities from the Faroe Islands, has prepared an analysis of the situation which clearly shows that the best and most sustainable solution is to build a new prison in the Faroe Islands. When the Department of Criminal Services is a sovereign, it means that it is here in the Folketing, here in the House, that the decision has to be made and that this is where the responsibility lies. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister not think that the Faroese prison conditions should be at the same level as the Danish and Greenlandic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109132124	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109132126	It is quite true that there are challenges regarding the Department of Criminal Welfare in the Faroe Islands. This is not a new issue and we are quite familiar with it. At the same time, we must say that there are also some rather serious challenges surrounding the Danish Criminal Welfare Service, really serious challenges. I am thinking first of all of our employees, who are subject to an unreasonable working environment, both because of the rawness and hardness that has become part of prison life in Denmark, unfortunately, not least because of organised gang crime, but also because there are no colleagues. So we are in the process of discussing the future of Criminal Services here in the Danish Parliament, and there are different wishes, and in the end it is a balance between the different needs that determines what we can agree with each other on. But there are challenges in the Department of Justice, and this is unfortunately the case in several places.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109132219	Edmund Joensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109132221	Thank you. Thank you for your answer. I very much appreciate that the Prime Minister is aware of the Faroese problems. My next question concerns the Faroese police and the multi-year agreement that was concluded almost a year ago. It is now the case that the Faroese police were promised more resources and a modernisation of the IT system, but unfortunately there have not been any changes yet, which is very regrettable, because the Faroese police are far behind the Danish police. Again, I would like to say that the Prime Minister is a minister of the Faroe Islands, and when the Faroe Islands police are a sovereign, I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister this question: will the Prime Minister work for the promised priority of the Faroese police? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109132323	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109132325	I do believe that the Prime Minister will refer to the Minister for Justice on such specific questions, but I can say that the same applies to the police as in the case of criminal justice, namely that we must, of course, pay attention to the conditions of the whole Kingdom community. I also understand that there is work going on in this area, but I think that as far as more specific issues are concerned, including into IT systems and such things, the Minister of Justice is better at answering.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109132352	Edmunde Joesen, last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109132355	Thank you. It is very important that when it is a real estate, it is modernised in the same way in the Faroe Islands as elsewhere, for example. in Denmark. It can wear out the patience of those employed by the police. But thank you for your answer. My final question concerns us North Atlantic parties. In general, we are very pleased with the involvement we get, for example. in the work on the Finance Act, where we will have the opportunity to present our priorities for future financial laws. Thank you. In addition, we also get invitations to be an observer for various debates, including: The SSR reserve, but there are still more negotiations that could benefit the Faroe Islands, for which we are not being invited. In my work here in the Danish Parliament, I have put a great deal of emphasis on research work in the Danish community, which is why I find it unfortunate that we are not invited to the negotiations on research reserves. My question is therefore: does the Prime Minister not think that the North Atlantic parties should be involved on an equal footing with the rest of the parliamentary parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109132526	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109132529	As far as the research reserve is concerned, there is, of course, a conciliation circle, and that is the starting point of the work. After all, we know that the North Atlantic mandates are not exactly the same as the parties in the Folketing because, after all, most parties continue elections after election. There are also a number of North Atlantic parties that do, but it is, after all, under some other conditions. So I actually feel that attempts are being made in different conciliation circles and in different ministries to find a way to involve the North Atlantic mandates as well as possible, of course. However, in quite specific areas of conciliation, it is the conciliation circle that decides which new parties, if any, will seek to join the conciliation circle. But I think, for example. to be able to observe in defence, to try to find a way so that everyone is involved in the discussions, even if it is not always quite comparable. I hope they will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109132631	Thank you, sir. Edmund Joensen. The question is over. The next question is Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109132637	Thank you. When I look at the PM today, I think of Moby Dick. Every Head of Government is like Moby Dick, who sets course on the high seas full of optimism and enthusiasm, but is constantly persecuted by the opposition in the form of the Whale-Pequod with its mad captain, Ahab, who has a purpose in his existence, namely to find, harpoon and kill Moby Dick. And the whaling raids lasted many times for four years just like a period of government. At the moment it is Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen who has the role of Ahab. But for more than 2 years, his crew's harpoons have been hidden away, for the ship has never been near Moby Dick until today until this moment, when the gleaned hunters sit with cut harpoons and sharpened knives in the form of sharp questions. Today's big dramatic question is: Can they get Moby Dick today, or will the white whale once again swim from them? It's very exciting, and I'm a little sad not to have been in this drama on one side or the other. On the other hand, I'm the one who's pulling the blanket off. When I'm done, the show starts. So I will ask a question about the matter anyway, although it does not concern me directly, from a more general human angle. How is it to have the role of Moby Dick such a day as today? There's a huge focus. When the harpoons are thrown, everything is analyzed: What did she say? How did she say that? What did she look like? How did she seem? There is a huge focus, and I can imagine that there is also some pressure. How do you prepare for such a day of battle as today?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109132835	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109132839	The question is rather: how do you prepare to answer the question that has just been asked? One can say that the good thing about being Moby Dick is that there probably isn't an animal you'd rather be than the whale...Sjúrður Skaale You talk to a Faroese!). Yes, there may be a few days when it is not so good, but the whale lives long and is an exceptionally wise animal and also an animal that can navigate even in situations where others have to give up. How do you prepare for today? Well, I guess it falls into two chapters, you might say. One is, of course, that we are also busy with other issues, for example, that the corona is now increasing, and that is our main task as a government: to deal with that situation. On a more personal level, I think that we should ask and answer the questions that are being asked. I can find it difficult at the very personal level to understand my motives, and I also think that the tone of the debate has become very harsh.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109132955	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109132957	There is no doubt that what you think and say about this matter is very dependent on where you belong politically. If you have a political interest in this being a very great scandal, you mean and say it, and vice versa. Where you stand depends on where you sit, as they say in England. Nor is there any doubt that there is a very fluid boundary between politics and theatre, and whether you are Moby Dick, or whether you are Ahab, or whether you are Ishmael, the press, who is the storyteller in the book. The three players, Moby Dick, Ishmael and Ahab, are all present. Where does the Prime Minister think that the line in this case is between what is politics and what is the theater?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109133051	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109133054	I think I will leave it to the Danes to judge and judge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109133101	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale for last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109133103	It'll just be a comment. Now I've followed this case; I'm not in it in any way, but I think that just the fact that such a case as this one fills a lot, irritates a lot, I think, on all sides, shows that you live in a community of law that is in many ways exemplary. It is not many other places, such a case would fill so much, and such mistakes as are found would get so much focus. In fact, I think that if you go up a little in the helicopter and look down on it, it is actually an example of proof that the rule of law is fairly strong. That was a comment at the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109133144	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109133147	I believe that the most important thing is to know, as a population and also as decision-makers, that we will not get through a crisis of the historic dimensions of the crisis we have been in and continue to find ourselves in without any mistakes being made. And I do not think it is the mistakes that are really the biggest challenge, because when we have to solve problems and when we have to find a way, mistakes will be made. What matters is, of course, that when mistakes occur, you acknowledge that they have been committed and then find a way. And speaking of Moby Dick and the oceans of the world, this is a global pandemic that has affected us all, and no matter how you turn it, and no matter what discussions we can have and what attacks will naturally occur, I am of course extremely pleased, and I am also proud that Denmark is one of the countries that has best dealt with this crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109133252	Thank you. The question is over. Then we move on to Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109133300	Thank you for that, President. I would like to ask questions about the mink case, as new information is constantly coming out in this very serious matter. When the last year was clear to the entire Danish Parliament that the government had committed a violation of law by killing all minks in Denmark, the Danish Parliament asked the Prime Minister for an account of this whole process. A few days ago, an official from the Ministry of Food was then questioned by the Danish Parliament's committee of inquiry, and here he stated that the government's statement to the Danish Parliament was flawed. This is serious, as a government is, of course, obliged not to give false information to the Folketing or conceal information. So we must not deceive the Folketing. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister can guarantee that the statement given by the government to the Folketing is complete.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109133404	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109133406	Yeah, I guess so. And I have basic confidence in the work of the Danish authorities, I also have fundamental confidence in Danish officials, and I also have fundamental confidence in the ministries that are in Denmark. We are in the process of touching some of the social institutions in which I believe we, as a government, can have confidence, and in which I also believe that the Folketing can have confidence. And it is true that a statement was made and, of course, I think that that statement is correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109133441	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109133443	That's not exactly what I asked. I asked if the Prime Minister can guarantee it. Because it is the Prime Minister who is in charge of the government. It is not the responsibility of the office that this statement is not flawed... it is the Prime Minister's. The Prime Minister acknowledges the responsibility, as the Prime Minister said at the end of the question from Mr. Sjúrður Skaale, that is, that you should also accept responsibility when mistakes are made? Does the Prime Minister accept responsibility for that report and can the Prime Minister guarantee that that report is complete?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109133513	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109133515	I definitely think you should admit it when you make mistakes. Moreover, I have no problem with this, and I have not believed in it at any time, nor have I ever put the Danes in a position to deal with a crisis of this nature without making mistakes. As far as mink is concerned, it turns out that there is not the legal home to be there, and the government has regretted that. A commission has now also been set up to uncover this process. When a statement is made along the way, of course, I take the view that it is complete and correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109133548	Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109133550	Yeah, we don't really get an answer to that. Then I would like to ask about the PM's deleted texts in relation to the Danish Parliament's committee of inquiry. For it was the case that only 7 days after the press conference, when the decision to put all mink down was announced, it became clear that a majority in the Folketing wanted an investigation into this whole process. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister's closest staff deleted their text correspondence with each other instead of hiding it. Why didn't the PM stop deleting these texts? Why didn't the Prime Minister ensure that this communication could be hidden for posterity when the Prime Minister knew this was a process to be investigated?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109133643	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109133645	As far as I know, no commission has been set up in the past which has asked for text material to be provided to us today. And it is also in this light that we must see that changing governments have not had any guidelines on texting. If we are now in a new situation where changing commissions have to uncover the text messages of changing governments, then it requires a new practice on the use of text messages. And that work has been started by the Ministry of Justice now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109133720	The question is over. We say thank you. Then we move on to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109133729	Thank you for that, President. In connection with the investigation commission's work, new information comes out daily, and the picture that is clearer and clearer is that far into the ranks of the government and, at least, the ranks of the official apparatus up to last year's decision to kill all mink has been a knowledge that there was not the legal basis necessary to kill all mink. What the Prime Minister says is that she was not aware of it herself, so although it is now apparent from the work of the Investigation Commission that quite a lot of ministers and ministers knew about it, the Prime Minister was not aware of it. Let us say that we are now starting to base it on the fact that it may be difficult to understand that it should be so that what the Prime Minister says is true. The Prime Minister then says several times today, and she did so at last week's press conference, that she trusts both her ministers and the official work. So may I ask the Prime Minister: can the Prime Minister trust ministers or trust officials who at the time when the Prime Minister at a press conference orders all mink to be killed, knew that there was no legal basis for this? If they have been aware of this lack of legal basis, and if they have not made the Prime Minister, the head of the government, aware that there was no legal basis necessary, how can the Prime Minister stress that she trusts all ministers and officials?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109133907	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109133909	I would like to say two things. I have confidence in Danish officials, of course, and I believe that the Folketing should have and can have that. I think it would be good to have a discussion in the Folketing about where it will take us if we do not have that confidence in social institutions. I'll warn you about that. So, yes, I trust Danish officials. I trust the Danish authorities. I trust the Epidemic Commission. I trust selected officials, and I trust the officials in Denmark under one. What we now see in the exchange is that the work of the Commission is concluded. I would like to warn against this too. When a unanimous Parliament decides to set up a commission, I think that commission should be allowed to work and conclude.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109134004	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109134006	I'm not gonna conclude anything. I will explain some of the information that has been provided in connection with the work of the Review Board. It has again emerged that the Minister for Health has approved a note one month before the decision is taken which shows that there is no legal basis for killing all minks. It has already been identified in the work of the Investigation Commission and it is publicly available information that when you remove the square brackets on the note submitted to the Minister for Health, it is because the Minister for Health has approved the note. And from that note it appears that there is no legal basis. It is October 1st and so it is more than a month before the Prime Minister stands at the press conference and orders the death of all minks. How, then, can the Prime Minister have confidence in the Minister of Health who has not made known to the Prime Minister that there was no legal basis when he knew it, more than a month before the Prime Minister was at the press conference?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109134056	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109134057	However, a number of parties here in the Folketing had concluded before the commission started its work, and they regularly conclude every day on social media and now do so in the Assembly Hall. I do not believe that it is possible for Parliament to work in this way in the context of a Commission. If you wish to set up a commission, which the Danish Parliament has done, with the support of all parties of the Danish Parliament, the Commission must finish its work and conclude. Perhaps it is also worth reminding you that there were quite a lot of parties against the resolution. The left backed the decision, they regretted and changed their attitude. But a number of parties have been against this all the way through. This is a fair political discussion. I fully and completely support the decisions we have taken in the interests of the health of the Danes and of public health. I am also on the goal of making mistakes. That's what we've been saying. That's what the government said. Moreover, a Minister for Food has taken the consequences of this. But I will not conclude on the work of a Commission until it has completed its work and concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109134154	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109134156	I just have to say that I think the PM's answer is complete. We have just been told that we must have confidence in the office. Then I refer to officials who, in a commission, have explained how they have experienced this, and then the Prime Minister just says that we have to wait for the Commission. After all, it has been stated in the committee of inquiry that the Minister for Health had been presented more than a month before in a note, that there was no legal basis and that the Minister for Health approved it. It is also documented through a departmental head of the Ministry of Food who has said: Should I be expected to grab the bone and call the Prime Minister's Office and say something that everyone knows? This refers to the fact that there was no legal basis. In other words, the officials who say so are the officials in whom the Prime Minister is asking us to trust. If we then have confidence in what they say in the Review Commission, then the Prime Minister says that we will conclude before we know what the Review Commission will achieve. We know what these people have said. That's what they stand for. It is available information. So I have to ask the Prime Minister again: if it comes out, for example, that. The Minister of Health or other ministers or officials have known that there was no legal basis without informing the Prime Minister before this press conference, can the Prime Minister trust them?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109134307	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109134309	Does the questioner honestly believe that he is here reproducing the various commitments and statements that have so far been made in the work of the Commission? Is this a comprehensive picture given? And is it right to have a discussion in the Folketing while a commission works? I shall not interfere with what the questioner thinks. I would just like to urge that when you set up a commission, you let that commission work and let that commission finish its work, and then we can have the discussion afterwards. I would like to repeat two things. 1) I was not aware that there was no legal basis exactly as I have said all the way through. 2) Yes, I have confidence in Danish civil servants, and I would strongly urge that the Folketing restore a fundamental trust in supporting social institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109134400	The question is over. Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109134407	If I should also choose a word that makes Denmark something special, then it is trust: trust in each other, trust in our institutions and even if it doesn't always work that way, trust in our political system. At least more than in most other countries. And that's why it makes me deeply concerned when that trust is in free fall. Not a month goes by without a story of lack of confidence; politicians who grow up. And if we are to be honest with each other, all of us who are in this Chamber, then none of us can say that we are free from part of the responsibility for this. The last few years have been marked by an historic crisis and, of course, mistakes have been made, even major mistakes. But the tone has also become unheard of. The Prime Minister of the country is directly accused of lying without any motive or evidence. There are parties here in the Folketing who vote for an impeachment, while the commission they have set up to investigate the matter is working and has not concluded. It's ridiculous. Fortunately, there is a light in the dark; a growing momentum for openness, transparency and accessibility, and that is welcome. I would like us to take advantage of that momentum. Let us open up the Public Access Act, remove the black lines in the notes and give access to documents that are important for the public debate on the political system. Let it be, then, that the Left first remembered that openness and transparency are important after they left the government themselves. Because if we can help together to find a majority in favour of abolishing the ministerial service rule, then we have come a long way. Think about it: a new public law can be the start of a whole new confidence reform in Danish politics. We could call it "Danish politics can do more." Why don't we break the abscess, rip off the patch? Will the Prime Minister not promise that negotiations will be convened in order to ensure a much more open public law?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109134614	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109134616	Well, we have a public law in Denmark, which has been passed by the Danish Parliament. We're gonna have to hold on to that. After all, everything that surrounds the work of the present government has been adopted here in the Assembly, not all possible elsewhere. And the Public Service Act must basically balance two considerations, one might say. On the one hand, and it is essential and important that there is access to discover what is happening in the machinery spaces of power, if you like. And on the other hand, everyone knows that a government, of course, also has nothing to do with this government, it is changing governments that need a working space where one can be advised and where one can work. And that's two reasons we need to play together. However, I am happy to enter into a discussion on the Public Service Act. I also agree with many of the other considerations. In any case, it is important to me that basic institutions of society should be fundamentally trusted as elected politicians. And I think you can, especially in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109134725	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109134727	Thank you for that, it is a positive approach. I'm looking forward to a message from the Minister of Justice. So let me move on to the next matter, which is also urgent, and which is a matter that actually concerns me quite deeply. Yesterday the PM had a press conference. It was good and necessary, thank you for that. Here, the Prime Minister asked the health professionals to make an extraordinary effort once again, and I also understand the situation of the Prime Minister, because we cannot escape the fact that there will be a great need for health professionals when the infection and the number of admissions increase. But socialism goes both ways: we cannot continue to ask health workers to work a little extra without ensuring that they have a reasonable framework. So my second question is: is it not time that we, as a society, showed the goodwill they have shown us as well? Is it not time for us to abolish the civil service reform and introduce equal pay into the public sector? No more commissions and talk. We'd like to drop the money off on the Finance Act. Will the Prime Minister be a part of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109134824	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109134826	In other words, there is no doubt whatsoever that there is frustration among many employees in the health sector, which is certainly due to several different things. They think there have been too many savings under the bourgeois government. It takes time to put things right, and now we are once again in a situation where we are some people who want to cover the demographic move. The bourgeois parties will not be involved in this. Then you can expect even more savings in health if there is a bourgeois government or in the area of the elderly, as we have seen before. There are some, I think, entirely legitimate discussions on pay issues. I personally think that we have overbureaucraticised the public sector, so there are too many of our public employees who spend time away from patients and away from the elderly on other tasks, which mean that this certainly presents some challenges. I think we should be careful pretending that you can solve it just like that with a snap. Because there are also some dilemmas in this, and there are other things that are important in our society as well. But yes, there are some challenges that need to be solved, and I think that the current political majority is actually on the way and is in the process of solving some of the fundamental problems of our welfare societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109134936	Thank you. Last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109134938	There are also other places in our health care that break cracks. Yesterday, Politiken brought a chronicle under a very, very dramatic heading: Dietary passages are heading for total meltdown. It was written by Øjvind Lidegaard, who is the head doctor at the Rigshospitalet. The content was at least as serious as the headline: There are constant extra shifts, problems in providing employees, stress • a vicious spiral and higher and higher demands, but fewer and fewer to meet them. How the system fails by thinking that we can just run productivity requirements beyond the food area, but the reality has shown that you can't give birth to 2%. faster a year. Our entire health sector is pressured to the utmost by productivity requirements, efficiency improvements and employee flight, etc. And I agree with the Prime Minister: these are the savings of many years of bourgeois governments that need to be cleared up. But I would say that the food sector is calling for urgent action. SF thinks we should put money off in the Finance Act. Is the government ready? The Secretary of Health told me he's got the money in his pocket. We're ready to take them out of the drawer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109135040	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109135041	After all, we are also in financial law negotiations. It does not fill so much in public and, of course, we hope that a good financial law will be passed along with the parties that will take responsibility for it. And there it would be natural to focus on health as well. At the same time, however, I think two things. So, as number one, will be a little bit careful to make it sound as if everything in the public sector is problematic. Because so many tasks are solved every day, and we also have many stubble care that works well, but it can work better. And there is a lot in our healthcare system that works well, although there are also challenges. The second thing I want to say is that we cannot pretend, even to our employees out there who are asking for more, that we can solve everything at once. But it could be that we should remind them together that if you do not want to cover the demographic trait, what a number of parties here in the Folketing do not want, then it will mean further savings in the years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109135144	Thank you. The question is over. This means that we move on to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109135152	Thank you. My last weeks in politics have actually been really encouraging, because I have been around the country with good radical candidates in municipalities and regions. I'm sure you have, too. I have not bumped into any of you, but in many of your candidates, and I experience such an enormous interest in debating politics and a desire to hear about it and also to want to change and think new thoughts and talk about it. But I also experience what Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr spoke about, which measurement after measurement shows that confidence in us in here is not so much about them locally and regionally falling and falling. We have a responsibility for this in the Radical Left, but also throughout the Folketing. For the citizens are experiencing this, and that is also what I hear about secrecy; they are not experiencing the openness which is, after all, a source of confidence. And that's a problem. I sometimes think in these cases that we're running, we're losing ourselves a little bit in a tactical game. We must insist that the rule of law is not red and it is not blue, because these are fundamental principles that we must uphold, just as we must safeguard transparency. And there are many in these days who experience that you cannot look at the power properly in the seams and who experience not being able to gain insight into the making of decisions. There are several committees now, and they also speak, I think, with what comes out of there and from the one that has been completed, their clear language. It is too difficult to achieve transparency because of the rules of the Public Service Act, which keeps too many decisions in the dark. We are quite concerned to shed light on matters, not in a political blood rush, and that is why we are also waiting for the minkgranskning, but we are sorry that it requires scrutiny before we can shed light on decisions. That is why we also terminated the conciliation on the Public Access Act, and we are in fact in agreement with a large number of parties here. But the settlement remains intact. Therefore, hasn't the time come for us to roll up the curtains? Isn't the balance tipped from what the Prime Minister called the working room to the cover-up room?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109135420	Then we'll have an answer. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109135422	I think it is important, therefore, to say something about this question if it is a matter of inter alia. text me that the rules have been observed. You can always discuss whether you want to change the rules, but I think it is important to say that the practice of texting is within the regulatory framework. And then we can change the rules if we want them to. I do not remember the figures here on the stand that confidence in us politicians rose, and I think there were two reasons for that: firstly, because we solved the task and found the answers to the challenges we faced as a society; that is what politics, after all, is all about; secondly, because we worked together. There was, in fact, a period during corona where we talked nicely and properly to each other and where we laid aside common differences and in many ways showed ourselves, I think, from our very best point of view to the Danes, namely by saying that there was something more important than party political interests. There was something more important than ourselves, and it was getting Denmark through this. I guess that's why trust increased. And we have a joint responsibility for this, that is to say to find a room where we meet properly as colleagues and find solutions to the challenges of the Danes.The climate crisis is a perfectly obvious example. When it comes to the Public Service Act, there are a number of different balances. And it is true that the Radical Left, I think, is looking at it differently now than they might have done in the past, and that is quite legitimate and reasonable. We must then discuss how to solve this in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109135603	Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109135606	I agree that the fact that we were united in the task has created some confidence. But what I am hearing now is that there is growing distrust, because we can see what comes out of the commissions of things that would not have come to light if we had not set up those commissions. What we have become wiser is, among other things, that of the European Parliament. The Freedom of Speech Commission, which was set up here, points out that we need to change the public and minister service rules; it is Grønnegaard's report on the review of the whole course of the Corona that points to exactly the same thing; and it is the Ombudsman's opinion that too many refusals of access are granted and that the ministerial service rule has become a blackout rule and therefore hampers confidence in political matters. I think that there is a lot of pointing out that we should listen to it more and then change the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109135702	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109135704	After all, there is one commission that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen has not learned more from, and that is because it has been closed down, namely the Iraq Commission. It is actually interesting in these days when a great deal is discussed, that when bourgeois Denmark has a majority, you resign commissions about yourself. When you have a social democratic government in Denmark, the Social Democratic Party supports commissions about itself. That's an obvious difference. I think, for example, that the following questions deserve more rounds: is it really fair that a bourgeois majority in Denmark can close down a commission to uncover what was actually going on in a bourgeois government about something as essential as Danish participation in war? You just put it down with a fingertips. There was hardly any discussion about it. You set up a commission on yourself. We have chosen to say: we support the fact that things can, of course, be part of a Commission work. I also hope for some recognition that these are two very, very different ways of working.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109135807	That's the last question, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109135810	Yes, and thank you for that. I also think it is under all criticism, and I also hope for some recognition that it may also have to do with the government's support parties, among others. My own party, the Radical Left, is that there is in fact a committee of inquiry working in this area. I am very pleased with that. Now we need to create new guidelines for e.g. text messages and how to deal with them in the future, because it is true that this is true in the future. How will the government ensure that the Folketing is also involved in the decision-making basis for that process?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109135845	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109135847	Incidentally, we also agreed on the Iraq Commission, both on its origins, but also on the concern about the cover-up, and that is, of course, Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen and Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr After all, you can think about why you needed it. On the question of guidelines, I would like to say two things: firstly, I believe that the advice I have received on this is still valid. Secondly, I have also said that it is, of course, important now to ensure that if text messages in the future become part of the Commission's work, they must be ensured. In that light, of course, we will not automatically delete text messages now and until the guidelines are in place. It is not about the fact that advice has changed, but there is not an IT system that supports their security, and the IT system needs to get up if that is what the guidelines are going to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109135945	Thank you. The question is over. Then it's Mrs. Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109135954	In the old days, we were wearing clogs. Now we're all wearing running shoes. That's what a nurse said to me the other day. And that's what they say when you talk to them out there. They are having a hard time, they are running incredibly fast, they are lacking colleagues and they are not getting a fair equal pay. The health service is under maximum pressure right now. We are not just in the middle of a corona crisis; we are also in the midst of an acute recruitment crisis. Nearly one in ten nurses recently replied in a survey that within the last month they have applied away from the profession almost every ten! Right now, as far as I know, there are over 4,000 vacant nursing positions. Yesterday at the press conference, the Prime Minister said that she knows the frustration of health workers, but the Prime Minister said nothing about what the Prime Minister and the Government will do nothing! I simply do not think that is good enough. That is why my question to the Prime Minister today is: what is the Prime Minister going to do about the huge recruitment crisis we are facing?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109140116	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109140119	In fact, I think that we are starting the current political majority with a roof by a roof, step by step to reconstruct our welfare society. We have made two financial laws and we hope for a third within too many weeks. Agreements have been made with municipalities and regions in three stages. These are five major agreements where more money has been added to our welfare society. We cannot claim that we can solve everything all at once, but we can start to reverse developments, and in the years to come it is, in my view, absolutely crucial that the money goes with it. In other words, if you start saving again on the welfare society, the situation will get even worse. I can't stand up and tell you I can fix everything all at once. There are many employee groups in the public sector and they are all important. There's a lot of relationships in this. But it is important that we recognise that there are some challenges, and I also think it is important to say that there is a lot that works well in the Danish hospitals; that everything is not as wrong as the picture you can get, there is a lot that works well, but there must be better working conditions, and we must take that discussion with each other. After all, we have also proposed setting up a pay committee to look at this issue of equal pay, and there will then be a political follow-up to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109140239	Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109140240	I simply miss the fact that the Prime Minister is becoming more specific in his answers, specifically on what needs to be done, because we are facing a very acute recruitment crisis right now. And yesterday at the press conference, the Prime Minister asked our health and care workers to be patient and to make an extra effort. In fact, I think that made quite a lot of them feel stepped on. To be honest, they have worked hard, and what have they received in return? A thank you, a honey heart, but the government doesn't really do anything else. A commission has been set up, but there has been one before. The government had the chance last summer to actually do something about the unequal pay conditions, to do something more about the huge health and safety problems that have just led to the recruitment crisis, but nothing has happened. So I would actually like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister does not understand that nurses and other professional groups, with the words that fell yesterday, feel relatively stepped on and provoked.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109140353	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109140354	Well, that's never what's my intention as prime minister. I wouldn't dream of that. There are challenges in our healthcare system and we are in the process of solving them. The recruitment problems are linked to several different things, and they are not resolved yet. I just cannot pretend that we can solve all the problems at once, because I know what other challenges we also face as a society in the climate, in other areas of welfare, in the area of the elderly, and that is why we need to build, in the current political majority, on top of year after year. And then there are some particular recruitment problems, there are some special conditions regarding health care that we must do what we can to resolve. At the same time, I think we have to say that the winter we are looking into can get really, really hard at the hospitals, and we have to solve that. So while we are in the process of solving some of the structural problems, we must take care of the patients who are. So, the old people who are going to be admitted this winter because of the flu or because of the covid-19, must have the care and care they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109140504	Mai Villadsen for his last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109140506	I fully agree that we must take care of the patients who are now, but the problem is that the recruitment crisis, the health care problems, are already affecting patients. Four out of ten nurses have experienced in recent years that busyness or understaffing has contributed to the deterioration of patients' condition. So we're dealing with an emergency problem. And no, of course it cannot be solved with a snap, but I simply do not think it can be solved by setting up commissions which work far into the future. Something has to happen now. So I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister does not think it is a little bit to gamble with public health not to act now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109140605	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109140606	I have all due respect for the problems of health care, and I have all the sympathy for every one of our staff, but we also have recruitment problems elsewhere. If we take the whole area of the elderly, we will see that we are going to lack thousands of employees in the area of the elderly, and in many places we are already doing so. We're in negotiations on the Department of Criminal Services. We can't fill the posts in the D.C. today. We have major recruitment problems in several places in essential parts of our welfare society, and we will continue to have that. We will continue to have that, and it is not just a question of pay, it is not just a question of working conditions; it is not just a question of fewer young people, it is also, in my view, some deeper problems in our welfare societies. And that is why I would appeal that just as legitimate it is to have a focus on the pay issue, just as important and crucial in my view, it is that we also focus on some of the other challenges that are and will resolve them. But we cannot do it as quickly as what is being demanded right now, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109140712	Thank you. The question is closed. And then it's sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109140719	Thank you. I will start by asking my question so that the Prime Minister will have time to think about it. On 3 November 2020, did the Prime Minister either participate physically or digitally in a meeting under the auspices of the National Operative Stab where mink was spoken about? While the Prime Minister is thinking about it, I would just like to mention that on 3 November 2020 is the very day when the government's coordination committee made the illegal decision to put down all mink in Denmark. On 3 November 2020 is the day before, the Prime Minister at a press conference gave the illegal order to the minkkeepers. The reason why I am interested in the National Operating Staff, also called the NOST, is that it is often mentioned in the Commission's report, and the government has also repeatedly justified its decisions by the fact that it is a recommendation from the National Operating Staff. So I would like to repeat the question: did the Prime Minister, on 3 November 2020, either physically or digitally participate in a meeting under the auspices of the National Operating Staff, where mink was spoken about?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109140830	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109140834	As a matter of principle, I find no basis for explaining which meetings I attend in principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109140848	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109140851	But it's interesting. I have heard the Prime Minister say before that you would not talk about anything under the commission, because we now have to let it work. I note that the Mink Commission for TV 2 has stated that it has no position on whether ministers are expressing their views on issues relating to work. In other words, for the sake of the Commission, the Prime Minister is perfectly welcome to reply. The Prime Minister said at a press conference last week that she had nothing to hide. Can the Prime Minister not understand that the rest of us sometimes wonder a little when we see time and time again that they say that they will not answer that out of respect for the Commission? And now you don't want to answer whether or not you've been in a meeting. I think that the Prime Minister must remember whether she took part in a meeting which was about something so crucial about the killing of mink, the same day the decision was taken in the coordination committee. The Prime Minister is welcome to pick up his phone and check the calendar. It is, after all, a very simple question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109140955	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109140957	But is it quite reasonable to sit in Parliament's Question Time and ask me what meetings I attended more than a year ago? What is under discussion in the Granskningskommissionen is whether I and the government were aware that there was no legal basis, and there I have said on several occasions that I was not aware of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109141018	Søren Pape Poulsen, final question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109141019	When I ask, it is because I think it is interesting to know that earlier on the day when the government took the decision, that is to say on 3 November, it had had a meeting in the NOST and then I think it is interesting to hear whether anyone at that meeting should have questioned the legal basis. The PM says she wasn't familiar with it. Of course, I find it interesting when the NOST plays such a major role, whether one has attended such a meeting, and whether mink was talked about. I think it is quite fair if the Prime Minister says: No, there wasn't. I am just wondering if the Prime Minister is not aware of whether she has attended a meeting with the NOST and will not answer anything as simple as whether there was talk of a law home around mink.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109141108	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109141110	I will repeat what I said before. In other words, I am being asked in Parliament's Question Time about a specific meeting that took place more than a year ago, and I do not really find any basis for replying to that. One can of course continue to ask me questions about all sorts of things, including now also about meeting attendance in specific meetings more than a year ago. I think I have to remind you in all silence and orderly manner how incredibly hectic and busy a period was involved and how serious the situation was. And what the government was concerned with was public health, and it was saving lives and getting Denmark through this crisis. Then there was a regrettable mistake, I would like to say again, about a lack of legal basis, which the government has regretted. We did that back then. Now there is a commission working, and I look forward to being interrogated on that commission and giving my version.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109141206	The question is closed. Thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. And we move on to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109141212	Thank you. I understand that the Prime Minister thinks that this thing with the deleted texts is such a bit of a storm in a glass of water; that it is so silly that we in the opposition care about such a thing as accountability and cooperation with a commission set up by the Folketing. The Prime Minister is busy saving lives, as the Prime Minister says. But when you delete documents, when you delete messages, when you delete the tracks after you, it is usually because you have something to hide; you have something that you don't want others to see. So a very simple question on my part is: what was it that the Prime Minister wanted to hide? What tracks were to be erased? What was it that the Prime Minister wrote that no one could see? And now the Prime Minister will probably say something with a million documents and blah blah blah, and that's not what I'm asking. The Prime Minister will probably also respond with certainty and blah blah blah. And I just have to say that not one of those who has spoken out in terms of security has supported that argument. What was it the Prime Minister wanted to hide? What tracks were to be erased? What was it that the Prime Minister wrote that no one could see?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109141332	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109141334	After all, the Prime Minister has already indicated that it can be denied that there is a connection with both the question of mink and the subsequent investigation commission and that there is an automatic setup on my phone that causes text messages to be deleted. The Prime Minister's office has already refused. In addition, I think it is important to say that the deletion of text messages, whether automatic or continuous, as a minister, is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109141409	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109141410	Well, the PM says there's nothing to hide. So we must also say: why delete the messages? It doesn't make sense. And when something doesn't make sense, it's usually because there's something else underneath. Let me ask you something more tangible. What's it like with this obligation to report, which is at the heart of this candal of deletion? As you know, I have not been Prime Minister yet, and I can imagine that there is a lot to be done. But after all, the Prime Minister has a legal obligation to record the texts that are relevant. So how does it work in concrete terms? Is the PM at night or is he sitting on his phone at night sending out the text messages that need to be recorded? Is it something that the Prime Minister spends one afternoon at once a month sending in to the office? Or is it, like so much else, something for which the Prime Minister leaves responsibility to others?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109141511	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109141512	On several occasions, the Minister of Justice has carefully and meticulously examined the rules in terms of journaling and text messages. And there it is clear that it will have the character of the exception. And nothing tells me that this government has a different texting practice in terms of journaling than previous governments.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109141546	The last question, Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109141548	Well, ergo is nothing that has been reported, because then the Prime Minister would know how the Prime Minister practically sits with his phone and reports. But peace be to it. I understand that the government is making mistakes. The Prime Minister has said this several times, and many of us may now agree with it. But when the Prime Minister gets into trouble, it seems that these problems are often wiped off on all sorts of others. It is no longer the responsibility of the Prime Minister; it is the responsibility of either the official or other ministers. We've seen ministers fall on this. We have also heard how it is the department manager's responsibility that text messages disappear conveniently before a survey commissioned by the Danish Parliament. It is also not the prime minister's responsibility that her closest advisor calls the Danish mink growers' work of life " and I regret my language, sir. President shit; a mistake of the counselor that we're told to live with So I'd like to hear the Prime Minister: is there anything at all in this whole mink scandal that the Prime Minister will take personal responsibility for and personally believe to have made mistakes in relation to?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109141655	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109141656	Now more questions were asked before, so just let me answer the second part of the question, namely how it works in practice in the field of journaling. It is true that if you, as a minister and it is no different under this government than under other governments, consider that something has to be recorded, then you have to record it. Quite often it would be the case that if there were to be something on a text message of a character that would make you have to go ahead with it, then as a minister you would take it up at a meeting or you would write an e-mail, and then it would be recorded in that way. In addition, I can refer to the very thorough examination already given by the Ministry of Justice. It was a mistake that there was no legal basis for the decision in my view necessary in relation to the killing of mink, and that is a mistake that the government has regretted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109141751	The question is over. Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. We move on to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109141800	Thank you. I do not think it has been very nice to look at how the Prime Minister's Office has opposed openness and opposed the Mink Commission, which, as you know, should clarify what is up and down compared to the illegal dismantling of the mink industry. The Commission already asked the Prime Minister's Office on 29 April to provide text messages, and it is 132 days before they are told that the texts have been deleted. Then the Commission asks for the text messages to be recreated, and then 46 days, and it has to be pressed every now and then before the police technicians are sent to recreate the text messages. B.T. has applied for access to SMS correspondence 25 days after the famous press conference and is told that no correspondence has actually taken place. Then the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament comes to the point, and 10 months later the Prime Minister's Office must admit that talks had taken place anyway, but that they have simply been deleted. And, most recently, it has come to the attention of the Mink Commission that the government has changed the statement given to the Folketing on mink killing, so that it no longer appears in the statement that the government at the KU meeting was informed of the lack of legal basis in the annexes. So we are left with important information being deleted, important information being changed and important information being withheld. I don't have a word for how critical it is. But my question is still on something else. My question concerns what the Prime Minister knew before the press conference, where all the mink had to be put to death. The Prime Minister says that you were not aware that there was no legal basis for knocking down all the minks, and it may well be true that is not what I am going to stand here and question today. But if the government had chosen a total shutdown of the industry, it would have been illegal. It is clear in the annexes to the meeting where it was decided to put down all the minks, so not to shut down the industry, but to put down all the minks. After all, the government supposedly chose the model for the minks to be defeated, and thus there was no closure of the industry, which would have required a legal basis. My question is simple: did the Prime Minister, before the press conference, know that if the industry had been closed down and not killed, that decision would have required a legal basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109142005	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109142007	In other words, what is under discussion is whether I and the government were aware that there was no legal basis for the decision taken, and we were not. I have said that many times. Then a great deal of comment is also made on the cooperation with the Mink Commission. As Prime Minister, I am not myself involved in the PM's dialogue with the Minkkommissionen. This should also be the case, but the PM's Office has stated, however, that the interpretation of the process that is being suggested or actually claimed here in the Assembly Hall, that is, that the PM should have ignored the Minkkommissionen or not the answer to inquiries, is wrong. The overall coordination work and the dialogue between the Commission and the government are carried out by the Ministry of Justice, and I can then rely on what has already been said. So I do not think this is a correct interpretation by the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109142103	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109142104	The Prime Minister and I are starting a well-known dance, which we have danced many times before, and the dance is that I ask a concrete and precise question, and the Prime Minister answers something else, answers bypass, and then the next step in the dance is that I have to ask the question again, and then we have to see if the Prime Minister will answer. The question was as follows: did the Prime Minister know before the press conference that the closure of the industry was illegal? Then the Prime Minister replies that it was not known that the killing of all the minks was illegal, fair enough, that is not what I want to discuss. I wonder if the Prime Minister knew before the press conference that if it were decided to shut down the entire industry, it would be illegal, as was clearly stated in the annexes to the meeting where it was decided to put all the mines down. That is the question to which I would like an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109142148	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109142149	Yes, and my answer to that is that the Folketing has set up a commission to determine whether the government was aware that there was no legal basis for the decision taken and that commission is in the process of doing its work. I look forward to meeting myself and telling you what I knew and what I was familiar with. I am not going to go into any further questions along the way, and I find it fundamentally problematic that, when a commission is set up, there are parts of the Folketing that conclude on the Commission's work before it is completed. Now questions are also being asked about the organisation of specific meetings more than a year ago, so I can rely on the answers that have already been given and, moreover, say that I look forward to meeting with the Mink Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109142232	Alex Vanopslag, the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109142234	But I'm not buying this with the fact that you don't want to speak out out of respect for the work of the Commission, not at all when you delete text messages and so on. Last week the Prime Minister held a press conference of one and a half hours talking about the mink decision and so on, so when it is convenient for the Prime Minister, you want to talk about it, but when it is inconvenient to have questions, you will not answer them out of respect for the work of the Commission. But it is one of the duties of Prime Minister that you have to answer the questions that you get in the Chamber. I want to say, live with it, that's the way it is. That is why I will try one last time, even though I do not think I will get an answer, and I could, in principle, just sit down on my chair and say that it is quite hopeless. However, I will try one last time, because it is of course relevant to know that if the Prime Minister knew before the press conference that decommissioning was illegal, then it goes without saying that killing would probably be the case. If the Prime Minister did not know, he has put an entire profession to rest without having read the annexes to the meeting where it was decided, and it is also deeply critical. So this is a relevant question, and that is why I will try one last time: did the Prime Minister know that the closure of the profession would be illegal if that was what was decided to communicate out?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109142332	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109142333	I was not aware of the lack of legal basis for the decision taken, and I simply have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109142339	The question is over. Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. Then we move on to the new party leader from Free Green, Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109142357	Thank you for the floor, President. Dear Prime Minister, last week we were granted the right to set up the Free Greens, and we can now, like all other parties, take part in the Question Time. We welcome that, we look forward to it. But what we do not welcome is that the planet is on fire while world leaders are passively watching. We are talking about a climate crisis that is about life and death; we are talking about global warming, which means that in the future we can only feed 1 billion people. We are talking about global warming, which means that countries will disappear due to floods. This is precisely why many citizens went around the world on the street this weekend during the climate march. They went on the streets to shout out the world leaders, who have gathered for the 26th time at COP26 this time in Glasgow and demand climate action. Similarly, thousands of citizens were also on the street here in Copenhagen, where they tried to shout out the historic green mandate given to the Prime Minister and the supporting parties in the 2019 elections and demand climate action. Free Greens were also present, I was also present. But I understand that the Prime Minister was also present and that has caused some confusion. We certainly need clarification. Is it to be understood as if the Prime Minister were demonstrating against the government's lack of climate action?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109142548	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109142550	No, the Prime Minister did not, but the Prime Minister is deeply involved in the climate issue and, of course, would like to support many different climate initiatives. First of all, congratulations on being eligible and welcome here in the circle of party leaders and thus also for coming questions like the one we are currently doing. I am also looking forward to cooperation both here and in other contexts. I think it's a little too generalizing to say that world leaders don't do anything. I think there are some world leaders who should do much more. I myself have participated in the COP and, of course, I am sorry that large emitters, large economies such as the Chinese, the Russian, the Brazilian were not present. It is really a pity for the necessary global climate effort. There are also many of us who have chosen to commit ourselves to legislation and many of us who are working together here on things are pushing the climate agenda, both at home and at European and global level, and we need more together. So I think we are some who are moving forward, but it is quite true that everyone is not with us yet, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109142710	Sir. Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109142711	If it were for the Free Greens, the Prime Minister should introduce climate relief and convene weekly climate press meetings. Something is being done, but not enough is being done. But today is the first time that the Free Greens have ever had, which is why it is also about getting to know each other and setting the stage. Free Greens are a feminist party. I'm proud to be a feminist. Does the Prime Minister consider himself a feminist?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109142743	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109142745	Yeah, I do. I've always done that. And to the second question, whether enough is being done for the climate, the answer is "no" there is not going to be the IPPC report as clear as it can be. The climate crisis is worse than the world expected; it will be harder to correct than expected, and we all need to do more. That is also what was the Danish message to the COP, which is why I am also glad that we are not only one of the countries with the most ambitious legislation, the most binding legislation and thanks for being there, but also that we are also one of the countries that contributes when it comes to climate finance in developing countries and are now in the process of new initiatives, for example. in relation to ship transport in the forest area and other areas. But the short answer is that not enough is being done in the area of climate change. Everyone must do more, Denmark must also do more, and I am quite sure that we will also do so with the current political majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109142843	Sikandar Siddique for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109142844	I want the Prime Minister to know that the PM's answer really made me happy. It was nice to hear that the Prime Minister clearly says that the Prime Minister is a feminist. Then we have a lot to work on in relation to equal pay and a fight with the patriarchate. The Greens are also an anti-racist party, and I am an anti-racist. I am because not only do I oppose racism but I actively act to combat racism. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister consider himself to be an anti-racist, and if so, how is that reflected in the policy pursued?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109142928	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109142930	Yes, of course I am, and I assume that most people will be able to sign that they are at least if the opposite is that you are a racist. I'm not, I've never been, and I'll never be. After all, we have seen both at home and at home how important the consequences are when racism strikes. And there is and no matter how it is expressed, no matter how it is said and no matter who it is opposed to, racism is basically unhealthy and we need the opposite. In other words, we need a society in which we can live together respectfully and properly and where we treat each other properly, and I think that is also what permeates the policy we are pursuing in Denmark today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109143021	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Sikandar Siddique. Then we'll go over to the next one, and that's sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109143036	Thank you, President. This question is about the energy island we are planning to build in the North Sea, which will be completed in 2032-33. It is a project that we in the Alternative are incredibly happy to have been involved in developing. When the island is fully developed with a size of 64 football fields, with large wind farms around and with wind turbines of a size that we have never seen yet, we will be able to produce enough power for 10 million households. So it will be the world's largest green outlet, and we hope that the green Danish current will be such a world fire. That is why, of course, in the alternative, we also agreed to be in the agreement when we negotiated it in the Ministry of Climate, and at the subsequent press conference we told how proud we were that Å is in such an agreement. Now we come to the problem, because now the agreement has been changed into a legal text, and we are dealing with it here in the Folketing, and suddenly an element has appeared which was not included in the agreement when we joined it, namely that the right to complain about the project must be cut off. This is a huge problem for us in the Alternative, since we are against cutting off citizens' access to justice on all construction projects. We have, for example. Very much criticised the abolition of the right of appeal to the Lynetteholms building. So we find it difficult just to come and say that we will abolish the access to the energy island, just because it is an incredibly amazing and sympathetic project unlike the new Lynetteholm, which we are extremely opposed to. What does the Prime Minister think about the Climate Ministry building a proposal to cut the right of appeal into an agreement after we have concluded it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109143206	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109143207	I think the question is so specific in relation to very specific legislation that it is probably better to put the question to the Minister for Climate Affairs. I certainly do not have a prerequisite for replying to that. In addition, I share completely and completely the joy of the energy island. I have to be honest and say that the first time I heard about the idea, and it came from the Radical Left, I was somewhat puzzling, or I thought: what, are we going to build an energy island? But it is a fantastic project, and I think we might even reach 12 million households. And imagine that Denmark will be able to supply not only ourselves, but a large part of Europe, regarding the current crisis in supply right now with rising energy prices. This is the right way to go, and the rest of the world is looking at us and saying: Again you are ahead, you are thinking visionally, you are thinking, yes, out of the box, out of the sea, you are getting new ideas, and you dare to do it. Imagine that we are there in Denmark where we have a political majority who dares to do so. Then there will certainly be a number of issues which I am not aware of, but which we will then have to clarify along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109143323	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109143324	In the alternative, the cut-off of redress in the construction of the energy island means that we are suddenly in doubt whether we can even vote in favour of the Energy Island Bill. When we said yes to the agreement, there was no question of cutting the right of appeal. We have something called a Member's mandate in the Alternative, where we ask our Members for advice in difficult cases, and we are currently asking our Members whether the alternative should ever come out of the first political agreement if the right of appeal is cut off, because that is not the agreement we agreed to. Is the Prime Minister not at all affected by the fact that the alternative, the greenest party, is considering saying no to building the world's largest green outlet because it compromises citizens' democratic rights? In order to raise it to a slightly more general level, I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister thinks it okay for us to suppress the democratic rights of our citizens, which we have given them, to complain about construction projects, both here in Lynetteholmen, the Metro and so on. What does the Prime Minister think of us constantly suppressing the democratic rights of citizens to complain about major projects?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109143422	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109143424	Firstly, there is one thing I do not agree with, namely that the alternative is Denmark's greenest party. I think we have many green parties, and here I am thinking of the current political majority. I am not so sure that it will last for the other parties when things start to get really difficult, but we will see that along the way. We have now seen some examples of the fact that there are parties saying they are green, but when we are about to make decisions, we are not quite yet. Complaints are important, that goes without saying, and I have no opportunity to assess this specific situation. At the same time, I believe that we must recognise with each other that we hear quite a lot of examples of the fact that when the green change visualises itself and becomes physical, there are sometimes people who say that they are supporters of wind turbines, but just not near where they live, or they say that they are supporters of one thing or another, but not right where they live. We will have to bear that in mind: sometimes it is easier in theory than in practice, but of course there must be a right of appeal from a very general point of view. But I simply do not have the knowledge to be able to comment on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109143531	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109143532	We also have a question from Members during these Question Times, and there is one who would like to ask whether the Prime Minister thinks that we should continue to maintain animal production in Denmark to such an extent as we do today. It harms the climate and environment, not only in the country but also in rainforest areas, it restricts nature, the large meat production compromises animal welfare. At the same time, an environmental wiseman says that one quarter of Danish agriculture can be cut without having significant social consequences in the long term. In other countries, it is also being worked on, and in the Netherlands, for example, state aid can be phased out. pig production. So our member would like to know whether the Prime Minister will help cut Danish meat production.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109143620	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109143621	Thank you for that question. I think it was a short time ago that we managed to reach an incredibly good agreement on agriculture, and here I know that the roads are a little different, but a very, very broad majority in the Danish Parliament has drawn up a long-term plan for Danish agriculture, which I think hits the difficult balances and dilemmas that exist. So I can rely on the agreement that has already been reached, which also points far into the future. Then I can say that, as far as I am concerned, today I eat less meat than I did before, and I also eat less meat than I imagined I would. So there is, I think, a more fundamental change, including our consumption habits, which of course are also climate-related.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109143705	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Torsten Gejl, and we also thank the Prime Minister for her efforts. This is the end of Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109143731	On 2 November 2021, the Ministry of Home Affairs and Home Affairs approved a notification of the party's participation in the upcoming Parliamentary elections by Free Green, Denmark's New Left Party. On the basis of approval, Uffe Elbæk, Sikandar Siddique and Susanne Zimmer have informed me that they wish to represent this party in the Folketing. Under Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Free Green (FG) is then a parliamentary group. As from 3 November 2021, the said members shall represent the Free Greens (FG). Today there are the following reviews: Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen-Nielsen (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 27 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right to a basic business account for economic operators). Per Larsen (KF) and Søren Pape Poulsen (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 28 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on ensuring a family doctor for all Danes). Stén Knuth (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 29 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a national strategy for movement in primary schools). Rasmus Jarlov (KF) and Søren Pape Poulsen (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 30 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the exemption of municipalities from tax sanctions in connection with the compensatory reform). Carsten Kissmeyer (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 31 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the strengthening of legal certainty by expropriation, etc.). Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 32 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on ID cards for the most vulnerable citizens with drug abuse). Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 33 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to ensure that there is no limitation period for ministers or officials in the so-called mink case until the matter has been fully examined). Per Larsen (KF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 34 (Proposal for a Parliament decision to ensure a voluntary electronic age verification for shops so that minors cannot buy tobacco, alcohol and other products with age limitation, and to introduce a ban on proxy sales). Anne Honoré Østergaard (V) et al.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 35 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to ensure that public health officials are able to be identified with a unique identification other than the full name, in order to secure them better against reprisals). Liselott Blix (DF) and Karina Adsbøl (DF): Request no. F 10 (Will the government such as Sweden, Norway, Germany, Iceland and many of the countries with which we otherwise compare ensure that blood safety in blood transfusions is enhanced by the use of pathogen reduction, which can also be a useful and important response if we see an epidemic in the future that is contagious via blood?). Henrik Dahl (LA) and Morten Messerschmidt (DF): Enquiry no. F 11 (What can the Minister say about the government's attitude to state history writing, as it e.g. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations, as well as the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances, as well as the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances, as well as the proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances, as well as the proposal for a Council Directive on the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations, as well as the proposal for a Directive on the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations, and the proposal for a Council Directive on the classification, packaging and the proposal for a Directive on the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and packaging of dangerous substances. V 26 on 26 January 2017, which states that the best way to reconciliation will be an open dialogue on history on the basis of a free and uncensored history research, and thus the Danish Parliament maintains its parliamentary tradition of not issuing judgments on historical events?). Mona Juul (KF) and Per Larsen (KF): Hasteforskning nr. F 12 (Will the Government explain whether it intends to restore all the deleted texts from the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister's Special Adviser, the Head of Department of the Prime Minister and the Departmental Council of Pel Pap from autumn 2020 and, if so, how will the Government explain whether it has taken or will contact the relevant telecommunications company (s) and ask them to provide an overview of the SMS correspondence that the persons concerned have been involved in during that period?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Member of the Folketing Uffe Elbæk (FG) has informed me that he wishes to take the question no. F 5 on cultural and art life when society opens up after the corona crisis to the Minister for Culture back. The question has now been dropped. Members of the Folketing Halime Oguz (SF) and others. I have been informed that they wish to withdraw the following proposals: proposal for a parliamentary decision to extend the system of land purchase loans to build general housing in municipalities with high land prices. B 11). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109144135	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It is thus granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109144218	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109144245	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour 101 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG, ALT and SP) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109144326	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109144332	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour 102 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG, ALT and SP) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109144411	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109144418	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour 101 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG, ALT and SP) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109144503	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109144510	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (RV), endorsed by the committee, that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109144602	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109144611	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109144648	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109144725	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Kasper Sand Kjær as rapporteur for Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109144736	Thank you for the floor. When the Danes go on holiday around the world, when we are not in a pandemic, it is probably not most of us who really think about how lucky we are to have the red beet passport with us and how strong a tool it is and how many doors it opens around the world. After all, with the Danish passport we have a key to large parts of the world. And the so-called Passport Index has, year after year, the Danish passport at the top of the list of passports with which you enjoy the greatest possible benefits and which provides as much access as possible to other countries. We should be happy about that, but it also means, of course, that the Danish passport is valuable and is a desirable commodity. And every year far too many passports disappear, and unfortunately it is a trend which is increasing • passports, which in the wrong hands can pose a security risk for Denmark and for all the countries to which the Danish passport gives access. We must take this seriously, because we need to have a high level of security around the Danish passport, so that we minimise the risk of it being misused for illegal purposes, and so that we maintain the great trust that is today attached to the Danish passport. That's also why the government in August came with the Danish passport in safe hands, which contains seven initiatives to protect our passports. The draft law that we are discussing today implements some of the concrete initiatives in the run-up, among others. initiatives relating to the passport law. With the bill, we get among other things. a limitation on the number of passports a citizen can obtain within a period of time, and this should, of course, lead to fewer citizens losing their passports. The same regime has been applied for in Sweden and this has led to a marked reduction in the number of citizens applying for more than three passports over the period. The bill also requires that, when you have to renew your passport, you pick up the new passport by showing up at the municipality in person. Unfortunately, there are far too many passports today which are being lost on the way to the applicant. And with the demand for personal attendance, the authorities can also ensure that it both comes forward, but also that no illegal evidence is used. The draft law also contains a number of further amendments, including: It provides a clearer legal basis in relation to the exercise of authority by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the field of affairs, i.e. when Danes are issued a passport abroad at the Danish representations. And then the bill also contains an amendment with an annex to the CPR law, and that would mean that citizens will be able to register Palestine, East Jerusalem, the West Bank or Gaza as their birthplace in the CPR register, and there has been a great desire from a number of citizens. Overall, it is a bill that contains many important initiatives to strengthen our passport security and protect the good Danish passport, and the Social Democrats of course support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109145046	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109145101	Thank you. The proposal we are debating today, at least as far as the first part of the proposal is concerned, is aimed at ensuring even more passport security. As the previous rapporteur has said, Danish passports are extremely attractive documents. In the last few years, that expression has been stolen or at least lost.I will probably use over 300,000 Danish passports, and that is far too many. It may have a little to do with the fact that they are also good commodities. The government will do something about that. We want to strengthen passport security, among other things. by means of personal attendance by picking up passports, a limitation of three issued passports within a 5-year period, stricter rules for people who are punished for the sale or misuse of passports and then other circumstances regarding the rules of passport delivery abroad for a fee. These are all things that the Left can support. However, we need to take a closer look at what it is to be charged in connection with the issuing of passports at the foreign embassies or at the Danish embassies abroad. On the other hand, the Left cannot support the latter part of the proposal. It is, of course, the case that Denmark does not recognise Palestine under international law, and that is why we cannot support the fact that one can come from Palestine in one's passport. That's the way it is. This also means that the Left will ask for the proposal to be split so that the rules on passport security will be put to the vote and the rules on having Palestine listed in the passport will also come to pass. In these words, I look forward to the further examination of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109145256	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109145305	I'm replacing today, sir. Peter Skaarup, who is usually our rapporteur. We have a few comments to make on a legislative proposal which, moreover, is generally quite good and absolutely necessary. I actually had a bit of a shock when I saw that in a 10-year period it was 300,000 Danish passports that have disappeared. So it's 30,000 a year, and that suggests that you have to do something. It was also, I believe, the Danish People's Party which, in the first place, made a similar proposal. That is why I would like to say that, in general, it is a good proposal that we are voting in favour of. I would like to make a few comments. This concerns paragraph 7, which deals with design, in other words how the passport should be designed. There is talk of modernisation, not only of security, but also of how it looks, and there I would really like confirmation from the Minister for Justice that our Jellingstone, that is, what is called Denmark's baptism certificate, will be in the passport. We attach great importance to this, which is one of the things I would like to have a comment on afterwards from the Minister. Then there is this Palestine thing that we think is an unfortunate proposal. I do not think that we should get into a situation where we allow something to be put into our passport, which is not a country, a state. Palestine is not, and has never been, a state, so it seems wrong. It can also set a precedent, I think, in relation to other disputed regions. You can mention Kashmir, Northern Cyprus, Kosovo and so on. If you go along with that thinking, things will go wrong. And I repeat that Palestine is therefore not a state and that Denmark does not recognise Palestine as a state. Then there are some things that we stressed when we first put forward our proposals. It was in relation to the personal appearance, that when you have got your passport and can go down to pick it up, then you should show up yourself. It doesn't just have to be sent by mail. When I say that, it is because it is also clear from the comments that in fact 200 passports disappear in the mail every year. That's the way it is. That's a lot, isn't it? I certainly think that this should be taken into account. Let people go down and pick it up from the municipality themselves, and by the way let them have the photo taken from the municipality, so they don't show up with anything themselves. Then there is the last to which we will certainly also be tabling amendments. It is about our wish that when you lose your passport, you can only get one new passport within 10 years. Otherwise, you have to wait. It is quite impossible that you could lose two passports. If you lose a passport, I think you'll be very careful next time you get a new passport. So the proposal is that you only get one passport after the loss of a passport within 10 years. The government is playing out that it has to be three passports in five years, and I think that is almost too easy for those who intend to get around that. Of course, there will be something wrong if you lose three passports within five years. Then you're very sloppy, or you're just so clever, and that's the last thing I think to do. So there are a whole series of things that we will go into in committee, but in general, as I said at the beginning, we are in favour of the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109145702	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Karsten Hønge, rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109145713	In the SF we are particularly pleased that it will now be possible with the law that people born in Palestine can be listed Palestine, Gaza, West Bank or East Jerusalem as their birthplace in the CPR register and thus in their passports. This is an important matter, which is one of the main issues. Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist has been fighting for too long and is now finally becoming something. That is why I also know that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist very much wanted to be here today, but he is at a climate conference in Glasgow. There's so much to be done. The Danish passport is one of the most exclusive passports in the world, understood in the sense that with it you can travel visa-free to 187 countries all over the globe. Unfortunately, we have witnessed an increasing trend in the number of Danish passports lost. In fact, the National Police report that more than 310,000 passports have disappeared since 2010. In 2019 alone, more than 33,000 passports disappeared, and approx. 5,400 of them were reported stolen. When the Danish passport gets into the wrong hands, it can allow human trafficking, terrorism and other forms of crime. Police Intelligence considers that the misuse of Danish passports can pose a danger to Denmark's security, since people who have borrowed, bought or cheated on a valid Danish passport can enter Denmark without the police ever discovering it. And in this way, passport fraud can be an element of organised crime and terrorism. The National Police have looked more closely at who is losing their passports and have come to the conclusion that 65 per cent. of the persons who are issued or lose more than three passports are already known in the Criminal Register. In conclusion: firstly, we think there is a good reason for tightening the rules; we support the proposed tightening ups which lie here and we will follow the work on a new passport register, which is also being set in motion. Secondly, we welcome the fact that people born in Palestine can finally get Palestine, Gaza, the West Bank or East Jerusalem in their passports.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109145924	There is a question from Mr. Søren Espersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109145925	Thank you. I wasn't surprised that SF is excited about this Palestine thing. I would nevertheless like to ask the rapporteur whether this applies to other areas of conflict throughout the world, which, if you start to count up enough, will reach at least 50 to 60 pieces. I have mentioned Kashmir as an example. Northern Cyprus, Kosovo, there are plenty of these conflict areas around the world, where it is not a question of states. Should they also be allowed, or is this just a special rule for Palestine?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109145954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109145955	I do not think it is possible to say in advance what areas it would be reasonable at some point to arrive at the point where they were born, because in reality, as we see it with the Palestinian autonomous area, it must be a state formation. Therefore, I do not think it can be said now that there will be some areas where we are already saying that it would be a very good idea to cut others off. It must, of course, depend entirely on a concrete, precise assessment of whether this area has now developed into a de facto state or a de facto area to which one can refer oneself. And then there is the particularly delicate thing about the Palestine-Israel conflict that, precisely because of the tensions that exist, it seems quite unnecessarily provocative to the people who were born in what we now define as Palestine that they cannot write it, but that, on the contrary, there must be Israel.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109150045	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109150046	This means that it is a special rule that we are now making in relation to Palestine or that the SF wants to have made. I would like confirmation that Palestine has never been a state in all history. That's the first thing I'm gonna ask for. Then Palestine is also a strange thing, because Jordan was actually part of the ancient Palestine, which the English were given the mandate to run and separated then later Jordan. So if you were born in Jordan, for example. Amman, can you put Palestine in your passport as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109150118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109150120	This is going to be such a rather heated discussion, because Jordan is so why disturb another important discussion about whether to write on Palestine, by mentioning Jordan, which is now a recognised state, and the people living in Jordan, and also the Palestinians living in Jordan, feel that it is okay that they write it, but one can of course discuss how long the Palestinian state has existed, but that the Palestinian people exist and define themselves as people, I think is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109150148	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next is Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109150201	Thank you very much. Our red beet passports may not mean much in everyday life, but with it comes a number of rights, and the passport is a very valuable size. The security of our passports is therefore also important. Unfortunately, as it is today, passport security is not at the top, as far too many passports disappear, are stolen, and passports are counterfeited and re-sold. Former rapporteurs have set out the measures to strengthen passport security in particular, and we support them in the Radical Left. And we also strongly support the part of the bill that will enable Palestine, Gaza, the West Bank and East Jerusalem to be named again as the birthplace. And we do this because there are a great many people for whom it has meant that a renewal of the passport suddenly meant that they were now born in Israel or in the Middle East. One of them is Hamed El-El-Beltagi, who says: "I am going from Hamed El-El-Beltagi, who was born on 5 March 1946 in Gaza, Palestine, to some Arab who was born at random in the vast area we call the Middle East. It is not the only thing that states the Middle East in some people's passports. There may also be Israel, and exactly in this case with Hamed El-El-Beltagi, who was born in 1946, which is 2 years before that it makes very good sense that the people born in Palestine, Gaza, the West Bank and East Jerusalem can now again state it. So we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109150352	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109150409	Thank you. This is an important bill we are discussing here today. It is important that we sort out the fraud with passports so that we avoid abuse and identity theft and so that passports do not end up in the wrong hands. It's important. But particularly important about this bill is that we now establish that, as a Palestinian, we have the right to be recognised as exactly what we are, namely the Palestinians. I know, sir. Christian Juhl of Enhedslisten has spent a long time convincing a majority in here that it should be possible. I'm afraid he can't be here today. It is important for all people to feel as part of a community. It's important to feel recognized and seen as who you are. Culture and history are important. We all agree on that. That is why it is important not to be discriminated against on the basis of where you are born. Unfortunately, we see many communities around the world who are oppressed and where being born by the wrong parents or the wrong place in the world can make life conditions and opportunities to live a safe and secure life harder. Denmark recognises, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, not Palestine as a state, and although I do not agree with the official position of Denmark here, I actually thought that many more people in here could agree that the Palestinians of course deserve the same rights as all of us. Although it is a small thing we are doing here, that is to say that you are allowed to write Palestine in your passport, I actually thought that there would be more people who would agree with it. In Denmark we have many fellow citizens who have a Palestinian origin. It is citizens who, like all of us, go to school, go to work and are part of Danish society. But there is no doubt that there is discrimination as a Palestinian. You are subjected to racism, perhaps hate crimes, you have limited rights if you have been stateless and, like many other oppressed people, the Palestinians have also seen that they could not properly register Palestine as their birthplace in their passports or driving licences. I do not believe, and the Enhedslisten does not believe that we should help to deprive people of their identity, and we should not help to invisible the Palestinian people. That is why I am very pleased that, after many years of debate, we are now, I think, Mr President. Christian Juhl can finally sign a bill to strengthen the Palestinians' rights and self-esteem. I would like to quote Nik & Jay, who has a song where they sing: When my best friend he is from Palestine, it doesn't really matter what my problems are. There should be no shreds in here when we take this small but very important step to help the Palestinians allow them to write their birthplace in their passports. Enhedslisten can very warmly support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109150741	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Marcus Knuth from Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109150755	Thank you, sir. President. The bill here addresses the fact that everything, too many Danish passports, disappears every year. There may be many reasons why some abuse them, because they do not have the right to use them, and that is, of course, the problem we are trying to resolve here. It is the assessment by the police intelligence service of the problems with these so-called lost passports that show up in the strangest places that look-alike fraud can pose a security problem for Denmark. That is something that Frontex also supports. So we're really happy that the government is raising this issue and at least trying to solve part of the problem. Sweden has also been mentioned as a country where something similar has been done. Having said that, we are very concerned about the part of the proposal that is about ensuring the legal basis for people born in Palestine, that is. Gaza, West Bank and East Jerusalem can be listed in the passport. A similar proposal was dealt with in 2019 and was then called the Minister of Justice, Søren Pape Poulsen, and the National Police Department stated at the time that it was their professional assessment that it would be associated with a number of disadvantages to introduce additional options in relation to the indication of the birth place separately in the field of registration. Among other things: such a scheme would mean that the birth registration site was not always the same in passports and in CPR. This is therefore important because it is linked to the fact that, in relation to the information, doubts may arise as to whether the citizen is also the person the citizen pretends to be. Therefore, in Conservatives and I think this is a joint promise from the blue parties, we would like to call on the Minister to take this part out completely or at least be dealt with separately among the parties supporting it. The rest of the bill we are in favour of. We believe it is in the interests of the security of the Danish Empire. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109150952	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109151005	I'm here instead of Mrs. Pernille Vermund. I agree with what has been said by both the Left, the Conservative People's Party and the Danish People's Party. Most parts of this bill are very good measures that we support, but the last thing about Palestine, of course, we cannot support. And that is why we are also calling for the bill to be split up so that the part concerning the amendment of the CPR law with regard to the registration of Palestine, for example, in the passport is separated so that we can vote against that part. But the rest we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109151050	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Liberal Alliance is not present, nor is the Free Greens, nor are the Christian Democrats present. I call the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109151107	Thank you, President, and thank you for the most positive reception. Let me start by addressing what was mentioned at the end, namely whether I will be prepared to split up the bill. Yes, that is my basic view and I have also practiced that in virtually all the other cases where there has been a desire to split up legislative proposals that the parties should, of course, be allowed to vote as fully as possible in accordance with their own beliefs. So unless there are such reasons or other conditions that make it necessary that you cannot divide it up, then I will be prepared to split up the bill. And I see nothing but that here it is the expression that some people simply disagree politically with what has been proposed here, and that is why I will be prepared to split up the bill. So it's a courtesy of it. However, I would like to say to Mr. Marcus Knuth, that the issue mentioned as the National Police's concern the last time that there would be a lack of parallelism between the CPR registered and the passport register has been resolved, by the fact that the direction here starts with the CPR register and can then be transferred to the passport register, so that if you want to register with the place of birth of Gaza, you register it first in the CPR register, and then it can be moved over to the passport register. So the concern about the different registration then is not gone. However, I also understood that this was not the only objection to the proposal, and that is why I will nevertheless support the division. But thank you for the overwhelming support. Then a few questions were raised which I think I should allow myself to try to answer immediately. Sir. Søren Espersen asked and pointed out that it was an important part that Jellingstenen went back into the pass. It will be the case that it will also be preserved in the future. A new passport design will be created to increase security, but here I read out the suggestion we had, which was called "The Danish passport in safe hands": The cover of the pass will continue to be the well-known red beet-colored, and the Jelling Stone will still be the pass-through theme. However, a number of new waterworks, motifs and additional security features will result in the safety of the Danish passport being significantly strengthened. So that should have been taken care of properly. Then the question was raised as to whether this means that we recognise Palestine as a state. No, I think everyone here is aware that Denmark does not recognise Palestine as an independent state, but also that Denmark supports a negotiated two-state solution in the Israel-Palestinian conflict. The demarcation laid down here, i.e. that Palestine is perceived as West Bank, East Jerusalem and Gaza, corresponds to the line of armistice that existed after the 1948 war. It also corresponds to what the international community generally does not regard as part of the state of Israel. Then Mr. Søren Espersen, of course, I think it is reasonable to consider whether that means that this is, in fact, the most politically more than an international legal regulation we are dealing with. That's probably what it means. In any case, it must be said that this is not the first time we have done so. The clear starting point is that in order to be registered as a place of birth it must be recognised as a State. However, there is the exception that one can also have the place of birth registered as Taiwan, although Denmark does not recognise Taiwan as an independent state. So there is a precedent for doing so. I think that is what I should say at the outset. Thank you for supporting the proposal, by the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109151458	There is a question from Mr. Søren Espersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109151502	Thank you for that and thank you for following the invitation of the Minister of New Citizens to divide the proposal into two. We are very pleased with that. But I'd still like to deal with this thing with recognized and unrecognized. It is possible that the government does not see any recognition of Palestine in this, but I am convinced that there are many others in the world who do not least the Palestinians and Israelis who must think that this somehow works artificially. So I think that you are moving in some strange field, where it is neither bird nor fish; either you recognise it or you do not, and there you hear that you will of course get your country listed in the passport if you get a Danish passport. So I would ask the Minister to explain a little in relation to this, on the one hand, how to recognise it and, on the other hand, not recognise it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109151551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109151553	Denmark does not recognise Palestine as a state, but Denmark's official policy is, of course, that we support a negotiated two-state solution in the Israeli-Israel conflict, and this goes against what is Denmark's policy in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109151615	Then we'll thank the Minister for Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109151629	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Kasper Roug, Social Democrat, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109151654	Thank you for that, President. After all, the bill we have to deal with here today is about ensuring that in the future the Greenlandic authorities will continue to be able to support the Greenlandic authorities in handling the covid-19 in Greenland. In June of last year we adopted here in the Folketing in Act No. 1056 an amendment to the Code of Criminal and Judicial Procedure for Greenland. The purpose of the law was precisely to ensure that the authorities in Greenland in the territory of the Ministry of Justice, such as: The criminal services had the necessary tools to prevent the spread of covid-19 in Greenland. However, the Act contains an end-of-life clause set at the end of the year, i.e. 31 December 2021. With the amendment proposed here today, the opt-out clause will be lifted. We can thus ensure that the national authorities in Greenland can also forward-lookingly follow the covid-19 measures implemented by Greenland's self-government based on the Greenlandic epidemic legislation. It is of course important that the national authorities in Greenland can continue to support the measures and restrictions introduced by the Greenland authorities in their handling of the covid-19. We have also experienced this in Denmark. At the same time, it is important that Greenland's legislation is in line with Greenland's legislation, and Greenland's autonomy has just extended the cessation clause of the Greenlandic epidemic law and is now working on a new epidemic law without any end clause. Inatsisartut has given full support to the amendment of the law by Greenland, which is, of course, absolutely crucial, and I hope, of course, that there will also be broad support in this Parliament. The Social Democratic Party supports the bill, and I must say that the Radical Left also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109151838	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next person to speak is Mr Seligman. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109151850	Thank you. This proposal aims to ensure that the national authorities in Greenland also have forward-looking tools to prevent and counteract the spread of covid-19 and other generally dangerous diseases in Greenland as much as possible. This is important and we want to contribute to it. Greenland, as a society, managed to handle and contain the covid-19 infection in a very impressive way, and this should also continue in the future. The Left can therefore agree to the proposal, because it will enable us to lift the suspension clause on the criminal and procedural law of Greenland, so that the Minister of Justice can also, after 31 December, lay down rules on, for example, the limitation of visits and exits in the asylums. We note that the Greenlandic parties support the proposal as long as it is drawn up in accordance with Greenlandic legislation, and that is, of course, one of the main reasons why we support it. It also appears that the Ministry of Justice will immediately take the initiative to amend the law when a new Greenlandic epidemic law is adopted. That is very good, because we do not think that the Minister should be given greater powers than Mr Inatsisartut considers reasonable. We will therefore also ask a question about it in committee so that we can present what the word immediately covers precisely, because in our view it is very important that, as soon as the work in Greenland has been completed, we have adapted the Danish legislation. So we are also looking forward to getting this sorted out by then. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109152020	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109152028	Thank you. I can be very brief. I agree with what the two previous rapporteurs have said. We think it is an excellent measure that the necessary opportunities are also available to the Greenland authorities and that cooperation is also taking place in relation to the wishes of the Kingdom Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109152050	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109152056	Corona is now knocking again seriously on the door in Greenland, where there are many infected. It is good that we have had a parallel process between Denmark and Greenland in relation to being able to handle the challenge from covid-19. I am very pleased that Denmark has given the vaccinations and also made fleet vessels available to get around the wide-ranging Greenlandic community and ensure that as many people as possible are vaccinated. However, it does not seem that the challenge of corona is going to end immediately, and therefore it is good that we now also have legislative parallelism between what we want in Greenland and what we are adopting here. And especially in view of the fact that the proposal is supported by Inatsisartut, the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109152149	Thank you to the rapporteur. Radicals are not here, and then it is Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109152205	Our rapporteur in this area, Mr. Christian Juhl, cannot be present, so I have promised to present the views, namely that Enhedslisten considers it extremely reasonable that the wealthy authorities in Greenland continue to have the tools to ensure prevention and mitigation of the spread of corona and other dangerous diseases, both for the sake of the continued uncertainty about the corona effort, but also for the sake of Greenland's self-government's influence on the initiatives. It is reasonable that the legislation in Greenland in the territory of the Ministry of Justice, which is intended to supplement the Greenlandic epidemic law, is designed so that it is in harmony with the Greenlandic scheme, for example. is to follow the actions undertaken by Greenland itself. If at a later stage, in the light of the new Greenlandic epidemic law, there will be a need for adjustments to the authorisations, we must immediately take the initiative for such an adjustment to ensure that the authorisations are consistent with the rules of the Greenlandic epidemic law. I should like to ask the Minister to explain the types of discussions and agreements that have been concluded with Mr Inatsisartut and Mr Naalaksuisut on this subject, as this is not clear from the comments made on the draft law. And I would ask the Minister to confirm that the purpose of the bill is to secure the Greenlandic rule over things, because there are equally many times not to be in that text, so it is very easy to misunderstand. But if that is what is meant to be, Enhedslisten can agree to it, i.e. if you vote in favour of the proposal in Greenland by the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109152341	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109152353	Thank you, President. I will also be brief. The previous rapporteurs have said this very well. It is important for the national authorities in Greenland, also forward-looking, to be equipped with the necessary tools to prevent and counteract the spread of covid-19. We understand that the Greenlandic Parliament has already lifted the same opt-out clause that we are discussing here. Thus, Conservatives back the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109152423	Thank you to the rapporteur. This is fast. New citizens are not here, the Liberal Alliance is not here, the Free Greens are not here, nor are the Christian Democrats. Then it's Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. And then we will hear what our Greenlandic colleagues think about the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109152445	Thank you very much. Like my colleagues, I will be brief. Thank you for the floor. Inuit Ataqatigiit supports the bill. The need to contain infection will also be there after 31 December 2021. However, we also note that it is a permanent arrangement until a new law can change it. So we would like to see what has been sent to us from the Institute for Human Rights, because that is not clear from the consultation material. But otherwise we see that our good colleagues back home in Inatsisartut are backing this bill, so we are doing the same for IA in the Folketing. Qujanaq.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109152523	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, SIU; I will not pronounce it, because I do not think I can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109152535	Qujanaq. Covid-19 doesn't disappear, and that's why we still have to protect ourselves from it. The aim of this proposal is to make the prevention and containment of the infection in the Greenlandic establishments permanent. In Siumut we can see the intention of abolishing the opt-out clause, as it is necessary to have access to the right tools in the Greenlandic establishments if that is to happen. But we must also bear in mind that it was not by chance that it was originally conceived that it should be with an end clause, as the law itself may seem to be reasonably intrusive. That is why careful consideration is important and Siumut recommends the draft law for consideration by the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109152622	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109152629	Thank you. And thank you for the very positive comments about the bill, which is basically intended to support Greenland's efforts to deal with the covid-19 pandemic with full support, as has also been noted, from the Greenland authorities. A few questions were raised which I think can best be taken in committee, but some of them were such that I think I can deal with them now. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen called for comments from the Institute for Human Rights. If they have not been forwarded, they must, of course, be forwarded to the committee so that they can be fully considered. Then I understood from Enhedslisten's remarks that there must be confirmation that the Greenlandic authorities are in charge of matters. It is already the case that only notices can be issued which will put these actions into effect, and such an announcement will have to await the opinion of Greenland's Self-Government. This has also been the case during the pandemic. So I think we've covered ourselves well here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109152740	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Greenland Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109152754	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Kasper Roug, Social Democrat, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109152819	For that, President. The legislative proposal we are going to deal with here today is about implementing the European Commission's shareholder rights directive in Greenland. The purpose of the Shareholders Rights Directive is generally to encourage shareholders to have long-term active ownership and to increase the transparency of communication between companies and shareholders. By implementing this directive, which we are now dealing with, in Greenland, the rights of shareholders are being strengthened in that country. This should primarily be done through a number of minimum requirements for the communication of listed companies with their shareholders. This concerns, among other things: laying down certain requirements with regard to the standardisation of formats and languages. The directive makes very good sense to all parties and already applies here in Denmark, but Greenland is, as you obviously all know, not a member of the European Union, and as a result there is no automatic in the new minimum requirements laid down by the EU directive. It is in everyone's interest that Greenland also follows the new minimum requirements for information to shareholders, but it does require Danish legislation in this area, which Greenland's self-government has also requested, and the Landsting in Greenland has already dealt with and unanimously adopted it. I therefore hope, of course, that Parliament will also support this. Social democracy will, of course, support, and I will say from the Radical Left that they will also support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109152944	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109152954	Thank you. In the interests of confidence in the trade of Greenlandic companies and the considerations underlying EU legislation in the financial and company law field, it makes very good sense to harmonise Greenlandic and Danish legislation in this area. In the Left we also note that in the consultations there is a desire from the Greenlandic industry that we are doing this harmonisation. We can therefore support the bill, which will give the Minister for Business the right authority to set this work in motion. We look forward to further treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109153028	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109153041	That is also a quick comment from me. I think it is an EU regulation that makes sense. It guarantees transparency, but also rights for shareholders. As you know, it is legislation and it will be legislation in Denmark, but also in Greenland. Greenland is probably not a member of the European Union, which is why we always have to go through this extra round down here. The landsting, I understand, adopted three weeks ago the proposal, and we have the tradition here in the Danish Parliament that we usually follow the decisions of the Landsting, so the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109153125	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109153131	The directive gives more rights to shareholders and provides greater transparency, and it is good with the kind of minimum conditions that create confidence in Greenlandic companies. That is why the proposal is supported both by the Greenland industry and by the majority of Inatsisartut. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109153153	Thank you to the rapporteur. Radical Left is not represented, and then it is Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109153210	Thank you. Our rapporteur, sir. Christian Juhl is still not here, and that is why I am putting forward his views. The draft law is intended to ensure that EU rules laying down minimum requirements for the implementation of the provisions relating to the identification of shareholders, the disclosure of information and the facilitation of the exercise of shareholder rights and subsequent amendments to the regulation can be implemented in Greenland. On 20 October, the Landsting adopted a motion for a resolution calling for Greenland's self-government to join the Greenland Act on Identifying Shareholders, etc. Greenland has taken over most of the business area. However, a number of areas of business are still within the competence of the Danish authorities, and this is precisely the case with company law, which remains a Danish responsibility under the Danish authorities. The necessary regulatory changes aimed at implementing the rules on real owners include updating a number of devices that bring Danish business legislation into force in Greenland, as well as the related administrative regulations. The relevant laws, which will be updated in line with the applicable Danish laws, are the Companies Act, the Law on Certain Business Companies, the Law on Business Funds, the Law on Funds and certain Regulations, the Law on Financial Business and the Law on Laundry. And if you want these rules to apply in Greenland, the Enhedslisten can of course agree to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109153339	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth as rapporteur for Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109153350	Thank you, President. I shall also be very brief. I think the previous rapporteurs have said what had to be said. As I have said, the legislative proposal here must ensure the minimum implementation of legislation by the European Union as regards the identification of shareholders, the transmission of information, etc. Since Greenland is not a member of the European Union, it is more a, what should you call it, formal matter to have it introduced here also in Greenland. And as has already been said, the Greenlandic Parliament has agreed to the proposal, so Conservatives naturally also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109153423	Thank you to the rapporteur. New citizens are not here, the Liberal Alliance is not here, the Free Greens are not here, nor are the Christian Democrats. Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109153440	Thank you for the floor. Inuit Ataqatigiit supports the bill. We support Greenland having up-to-date and transparent legislation on company law in Greenland, as this is an important prerequisite for attracting foreign investors in the long term too. Greenland has taken over most of the business area, but company law is still a Danish responsibility. We see in the material that Greenland's Occupation is calling for a long-term plan for the development of company law in Greenland. This is something that IA supports. With the few comments we thank for the draft law and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109153521	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, SIU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109153535	Qujanaq. The draft law on the identification of shareholders, the disclosure of information and the facilitation of the exercise of shareholder rights will ensure greater transparency and transparency in the identification of shareholders and the disclosure of information, as well as the facilitation of the exercise of shareholder rights. Siumut believes that it is a major step if the bill is adopted and finds no obstacles in supporting the bill. Siumut therefore recommends the draft law for consideration by the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109153607	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109153616	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, too, for the comments made by the rapporteurs. These were short and precise speeches and all with positive signs. Thank you so much. I think it makes sense just to highlight some of the key elements of this bill. In fact, it is a legislative proposal that should allow us to implement provisions in Greenland by means of a regulation similar to the Commission's implementing regulation, which is intended to implement certain aspects of the second shareholder rights directive. The second shareholder rights directive has inter alia: aim to support investors in long-term, active ownership. The directive is being implemented in Greenland by updating, among other things, the directive. the provision of the Companies Act, which is intended to facilitate the exercise of shareholders' rights and make it more effective. Therefore, the implementing regulation lays down a number of minimum requirements on standardised formats and languages for different information. This is, for example, the case. on, when the company requests information on the identity and response of the shareholders, the company's calls for meetings and confirmations of the right to exercise shareholder rights at a general meeting and when shareholders announce participation as shareholder in a general meeting. As everyone knows, Greenland is not part of the European Union and therefore Greenland does not follow it per year. automatically the new minimum requirements laid down by the Implementing Regulation, but it is both in Greenland's Self-Government and in Danish interest that Greenland also follows the new minimum requirements to standardize formats and languages for different information. In order for the implementing regulation to be implemented, it requires Danish legislation in this area, and that is the legislative proposal we are discussing right now. We want to implement the bill now because Greenland is faced with the fact that the Global Forum, a body under the auspices of the OECD, has planned an evaluation of the Greenlandic tax rules, where Greenland's rules on real owners are important for the evaluation. With reference to the Global Forum's planned evaluation, Greenland's Self-Government has expressed the wish that the necessary regulatory changes have entered into force before that date. The amendments to the rules include updating a number of devices and this legislative proposal, ensuring that the Commission's Implementing Regulation and subsequent amendments to the Regulation can be implemented in Greenland. The Landsting has already dealt with the bill, and on 20 October this year the Landsting unanimously endorsed the bill. The government expects that the rules will facilitate the exercise of shareholder rights and make it more effective and thus, as I said, help support the communication of listed companies with their shareholders. This is done through the transmission of information, through chains of intermediaries and obliges intermediaries to facilitate the exercise of shareholder rights. Intermediaries can, for example,: be a bank or a CSD. With those words and with the positive comments I look forward to the further discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109153938	Thank you to the Minister for Business. I propose that the bill be referred to the Greenland Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Since the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing has not yet arrived, we have heard that he is on his way. We have to postpone the meeting until we have a minister in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109154621	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party. The minister won't get on until the end. Here you go, sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109154649	Thank you so much. The reason why there was just some confusion is that this is the first time I have been here in a debate on the statement. I have looked forward to this very much, and for the information of Members, I am here as the standin for our rapporteur, Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. Over the last few decades we have witnessed centralisation which has fundamentally changed the Danish map. We have seen that small education in the smaller towns has been merged and moved to larger towns, municipalities have been merged, and decisions on infrastructure, schools, day care institutions, elderly care and much more have moved further away from the citizens who have to live with the decisions. Local police stations have been decommissioned and police officers have moved to larger cities further away from the citizens; shops that used to be at the centre of the smaller cities and created life and environment have been run out by large shops with well-known chains located on the outskirts of the slightly larger cities. In short, many Danes have experienced that Denmark has become more centralized and things have moved further away. I believe that the examples are many examples of the list of calls have at least been long and we know that the experience among the half of the population living outside the big cities is that Denmark has been pulled off for many years. While some parts of the country have experienced a rapid development, other parts of Denmark have experienced a winding-up. Some things, and I think we must make that clear, we are not masters, but much of the developments that have taken place are also due to political decisions taken deliberately. With regard to efficiency, economies of scale and savings, local considerations for development outside large cities have been trumped. It is clear that we cannot simply roll back all developments, and neither should we, but we must try to set a new direction. This is what a majority in the Folketing has spent the last 21⁄2 years on, while the Social Democracy has been in government. In the field of education, together with a broad majority in the Folketing, we have concluded an agreement which ensures more and better education throughout the country. This applies to welfare education, where 60%. the training places are going to be outside the main cities. We improve the financial framework for education outside major cities and we move 10%. of the training places from the four largest cities. A good education coverage ensures that more people gain access to skills, that more people have access to their dreams and that companies and public institutions have access to crucially qualified labour. At the same time, the placement of the courses is the foundation of a balanced settlement pattern. In addition, I am also pleased that we have made an agreement on the distribution of pupils in upper secondary education and helped the secondary schools in the outermost regions, which have been threatened with closure due to a decline in the number of pupils in the area. And, most recently, we have proposed that more cities which today do not have any upper secondary education should have the opportunity to create one if the population base is for that. In the housing sector, the government has proposed a state guarantee on the outermost part of the mortgage in rural areas, so that more people will have the opportunity to realise the dream of own housing. And as part of the recovery of the tax administration, the government has placed eight new tax centres with a total of 1,000 employees in Fredericia, Frederikssund, Viborg, Esbjerg, Ringe, Slagelse, Svendborg and Frederikshavn. This helps to ensure a better tax administration, but it also helps to ensure that people settle outside the largest cities. We have also proposed the creation of 20 near hospitals, which will help to restore closeness to welfare. And then a broad majority in the Folketing has also placed 20 local police stations to ensure security locally. I know that in my area, the area that I come from around the Wadden Sea, both in Tønder and in Esbjerg Municipality, it is something that creates great joy, both that you get a more visible police, but also that you actually get some physical framework where you can go. Security is extremely important for development, and security is also extremely important when it comes to choosing to settle. We are not yet in the finish line, but significant initiatives have been taken to counter shop deaths and support living city centres. I also think we have to go because now there is a municipal election raging out there, and it is not to stand here on the platform and interfere in the municipal elections • not to underestimate the agreement on compensation in Denmark, which also included a broad majority in the Folketing. This helped to give municipalities a better economy so that they are not forced to close local offers. However, I can at least see in the election campaigns I have visited that it with its proximity, and that it actually has an influence, means a great deal to the citizens who live in the smaller rural areas as well. That is why we must also remember to pay tribute to the municipalities which are doing very well. There have been a great many good initiatives. A new direction has been decided in here. This has not been done with individual agreements, which is why we can also see in the statement that it is very broad. In fact, this also underlines the long, tough move which takes into account the need for balance in all parts of our country. It is from decisions on infrastructure to decisions on agriculture to decisions on climate. I just think I would like to emphasise quietly that we actually have a Parliament which, although often heated in the debates, can actually bend the straws against each other and cooperate on sustainable solutions. I think it is incredibly nice and I think it is in fact also essential for employment, growth and jobs in a very important industry such as the agricultural and food industry that we have managed to reach such a broad agreement in the Danish Parliament. I would like to pay tribute to the parties from the Enhedslisten to New Citizens for wanting to compromise, to find solutions together, because there is no doubt that those farmers who have a tight economy can now go down to the bank and say: please listen to us when we have to invest in the future, there are indeed broad framework conditions and there is tranquillity about the industry. I think that actually supports developments in our rural areas. So I think it has actually been very well done that for a profession that has previously been a political battleground where, in relation to changing governments, we have managed in this Parliament to make broad, solid agreements. As I said, we are not yet in the finish line, but I think and consider that important steps have been taken to restore the balance in Denmark so that good lives can be lived regardless of the postal code in which you live. Then I cannot help but welcome in the end the study trip which the Rural Committee also had a year and a half ago to the island of Mandø, a small island with not even 50 inhabitants. But even though it's small, there was a drive, a commitment. We also felt there as a committee and saw that, although there were no more citizens, good, solid initiatives were actually being carried out with ownership. For example: you want to market the island of Mandø with silence and with a future project on dark cloud. And I have no doubt that projects that have a very local nerve growing up from below and that we can support here also help to ensure that such communities are actually very interesting both to visit, but also to settle in the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109155622	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions, and then the rapporteur is allowed to leave the platform. Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Juel-Jensen, Left, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109155636	Thank you for that, President. And thank Anders Kronborg for a fine speech. The rapporteur came around very well, and it's great for a temp. And thank the Minister for a good and, in my view, a very thorough statement. I recognise that steps have been taken to strengthen our rural areas, and in the Left we also agree that Denmark is a far too small a country to have too large regional differences, which was also why, back in 2015, together with a majority here in the Folketing, we really started to reverse rural development. One of the points made by the report is that despite the general increase in population in Denmark as a whole, population trends also show that the population has been increasing in all five regions of urban areas or close to large cities. But the further away you come from the big cities, the more marked it is that the population does not increase, and there is also an increasing imbalance in the age structure around the small villages out in rural municipalities. When I address it, it is because there is still a need for greater attention to be paid to our rural areas, which of course also experience a shortage of labour and housing, and some of what I miss a bit in the statement is that the thistle, as it is, is being tackled, because there is indeed a shortage of labour and, above all, housing for this workforce in our rural areas, and it is progressing a little slowly. It is necessary, if our rural areas are to be able to get out of Corona well, to have the necessary labour available and, of course, to have the necessary housing stock. The statement is a good starting point for a coming parliamentary year, when we on the Left, and we would like to announce this already, intend to put forward further proposals that will strengthen our rural areas. These will be proposals that we have also co-financed in our Finance Act, because we on the Left could not put forward unfunded proposals. Thank you for a good statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109155849	There is a question from Mr. Anders Kronborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109155853	Thank you so much. And thank you for one, I think, fine speech. Moreover, I would just like to thank the rapporteur for the generally pleasant and serious cooperation that we have on this important issue. However, when I take the floor, it is because when the rapporteur says that we must have life, growth and employment in rural areas, it comes to my memory that one of the most important political agreements we have made in this House, namely the agreement on near-police stations, is not part of the rapporteur's party. It is, of course, an agreement in which virtually all the other parties in the Folketing are involved, and that also means that when we are going to discuss the agreement in the future, the rapporteur of the Left is not sitting at the table; that is what the Conservative rapporteur and the rapporteurs of the other bourgeois parties are doing. And I cannot help wondering whether the rapporteur is not only annoying for a quiet moment that his party, the Left, was not part of such an important agreement that creates life, security and employment in rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109160001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109160003	Thank you for the question. Now I do not know how much security and life that agreement secures in our rural areas, because if I remember the agreement correctly, then I think it might be quite nice to call it a police station, because it is not 24 hours a day, it is not 24 hours a day. 10:30 till 10:00. 11.15, or how long it is now open. There aren't cops all the time. I think it would have been possible to get something more out of the money. However, the reason why we were not in that agreement was that that agreement basically makes it more expensive to be a Dane, and we do not believe that we should be involved in making a large public sector much bigger, because we know that it stays out in rural areas, that you will pay for it while you rarely get a share in the goods.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109160049	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109160051	Thank you. And thank you for a very honest answer. I think that this is a very important agreement. It is true that there is no day-to-day staffing at these police stations, but we are getting significantly more police officers into our rural areas. The rapporteur then says that it must not be more expensive to be a Dane. I understand from the rapporteur that this also means, in relation to the rural policy of the Left, that if we turn on some instruments to finance it, for example. in relation to driving licences and passports, does the Left refuse to make initiatives that help to bring Denmark into better balance?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109160127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109160128	No, it has been a goal for the Left since 2015, i.e. a long time before the Social Democracy saw rural areas, that we would like to have a more balanced distribution when it comes to the development of our rural areas. We will be presenting fully funded proposals for everything that we believe can be better in rural areas. And yes, we are going to invest further in our rural areas to ensure good and proper development. I would also ask the rapporteur to bear in mind that it is not even six months ago that we were sitting in this Chamber, and the rapporteur's party voted against the full principle of road transport, something that could contribute to the growth and development of our small islands. There you weren't willing to find those resources. So I don't think anyone should point the finger at anyone else.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109160212	Thank you. There will then be no further brief comments, and then we will thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109160227	Thank you. Rural areas are where a large part of the Danes live their lives, and when we from Christiansborg have to make legislation on rural areas, it must be with the deepest and most sincere respect that this is where people live their lives. And this rural living thing, and we are many of the rapporteurs who do, can actually be quite difficult to describe when it comes to explaining to city dwellers what we just love about it. It is as with so much else, namely that emotions can be incredibly difficult to describe. This whole neighbor thing, this whole thing about how you care a lot more about each other, how you know each other better, how you keep an eye on each other for good and evil, how close together, and how when we're in the village, there are a lot of different events because we really want to get together and hang out. The walks in nature, the quality of your life that you live right out in nature and can just go good, long walks in nature every day, is absolutely fantastic. The islanders do it that they describe the feeling of being islanders very much consensual when I'm out on the islands, and they say it's about this that when they sit on the ferry back to the island, they can just blow out completely. For many years before I moved to a rural area, we had a summer house at Mols, and there I had the same feeling when we passed Kalø Slotsruin. It is we who live in rural areas that are the best ambassadors for rural areas, and it is therefore important that we speak them up. In the Dansk Folkeparti we came in March 2021 with our play "Livet is also lived in the province," and here were a number of initiatives that we will put forward during the next parliamentary assembly, and that was among other things. This growth pilot scheme, which I think was an amazing project, is putting academics out on companies where you would never hire academics. I remember talking to a company where they sat and sewed curtains, and then they had hired an academic, and I thought: What on earth do they need an academic for in the company where those six women just sit and sew curtains? But he was extremely talented at sticking the trunk into all sorts of EU boxes that made them just suddenly able to expand and go from being one to being six stores. That was amazing. The growth pilot scheme can do something, and it is therefore important that we safeguard it. Then there are growth loans. When you want to start as an entrepreneur in rural areas, we can forget about these demands that you have to borrow at least 1 million. kr., when it is small entrepreneurs in rural areas. So if we're going to get this entrepreneurship going in rural areas, we in the Danish People's Party would very much like to put it down to half a million. Then we also took the initiative to preserve the small schools, and we can also see here in the report that national schools have gone down, but it is particularly difficult out there in rural areas and islands, and that is one of the things that we in the Danish People's Party would like to preserve by means of some measures there. Of course, we are still in favour of relocating education, which I have talked about a great deal in the past, but also this because, when we establish new units of education, we do so as a starting point outside the metropolitan area, unless there are serious reasons why it should be right here. The same must actually be our mindset, our thinking when we do it with state jobs. This is because every time a new state workplace is to be created, as a starting point, we just have it on the spine that it should be outside the metropolitan area, is also a way to reverse developments. And then I think it's a little funny that you can sit on Ærø, and then at Ærø you can train at Harvard University in the United States because digitalization is so far ahead, but you can't do it at Copenhagen University. I think that is quite crazy, that is, the fact that we are not better at making sure that Danish universities also have digitalisation when they can do so at foreign universities. Then we in the Danish People's Party also think that this thing about state guaranteeing loans to shops on the islands is important, because they are still hard pressed. It is the case in many islands that they have a long ferry crossing into the mainland, and that means that when you are finished with the 9th grade, you have no choice but to move into the mainland, if you are going to high school or commercial school or whatever, vocational training, and that means that parents must be good at the muffin, because they have to pay for the young person of 15-16 years of age to get board and lodging, and some municipalities are also so nice to grant subsidies to their islanders. But we cannot be aware that it has to be dependent on the parents' purse or the goodwill of the municipality if you can get an education, and therefore we in the Danish People's Party would like the young people under the age of 18, islanders, to be able to have outside su until they are 18 years old. We have also examined the cost of this, because only a few islands are involved, and that will cost less than 5 million. kr. Every year on a state budget, so it's not because it's ruining us. We think it is a very good investment in the young islanders that we can do it too. When you delve into the rural statement, you see that the population has stagnated, it is not going down, but it has also stagnated in the small islands lately. But it is still the case that if the curve we see was a curve over a stock, I would not invest in it, and that is precisely why it is important that we invest in the small islands extra much because they are really vulnerable. We want more families with children to move to the small islands. When you look at overnight stays, it was fantastic to see how corona did, that a huge boost came in the summer cottage rental, and we in the Danish People's Party should continue to support this, by the fact that the bottom allowance should also be raised to the 60,000 DKK. The average age in the small islands is according to the report extremely high. It wasn't like the other curves that were roughly followed along, because here it was extremely tall. 55 years is really, very much, and if we are to attract more families of children to the small islands, then we must run the traffic equality into targets now and here and as soon as possible, and at the same time it is also important that we take initiatives to make available housing for families who want to establish themselves in the small islands. Otherwise, we would just say that in the Danish People's Party we welcome the government's priority for rural areas, and we welcome the Minister's personal commitment to rural areas, which is clearly shining through here, and we are very, very pleased about that. We are pleased with the cooperation we have with all the other rural rapporteurs, so we are looking forward to future cooperation in ensuring the best conditions for rural areas and islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109161123	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We can move on to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109161134	Rural areas are challenged by declining population and jobs, lack of investment and training places, etc. We are aware of the challenges which also emerge from this rural policy statement. This year's report focuses particularly on education, employment and digital infrastructure, but also on population decline and increasing age in rural areas, and also shows that the move to rural areas is more resource-poor than those moving towards larger cities and that lower housing prices can be part of the explanation for this development. There is a focus here, because in rural areas there are also fewer social services in the form of e.g.: shelters, bedrooms and legal aid; so there is longer for help. At the same time, offers are difficult to exploit because transport does not always work optimally and the economy can be in a difficult position to exploit. Therefore, we should be aware, perhaps with pools, of targeting the maintenance of offers in the thinnest occupied areas. Good things have happened since the last time. Yes, in fact, SF mentioned four things last year, which I think we should address politically in the coming year. Two of the proposals are on the way to being implemented. The first thing is about education. In the SF, we have previously proposed a relocation plan for education, so that we achieve a better geographical balance in training offers. We have now started this work as a result of the new education agreement, which is a good first step on the way to creating more educational opportunities outside the major cities. This work is very important, because we know that people stay local when they train locally. With the labour shortage that we are looking into, there is a great need for us to have trained labour for the local labour market, because without a local economy, many things are stalling. The second thing is about loans in rural areas. Finally, the government has now played out a proposal which has not yet resulted in a proper legislative proposal, but which is still very leaning on the SF's five or possibly six different resolutions in this area, which is about securing loans for housing in rural areas, a hard area in terms of the purchase and sale of property. We have been saying in the SF for years that market forces do not solve this, and that is why our proposal has been at the heart of the idea that the state must play a role in this context. We hope that this will be achieved, and we have noted that there is a legislative proposal in the legislative catalogue to correct this situation. After all, you can let down what cannot stand, or you can try to influence development in a better direction by supporting rural areas with the right framework. We're in the SF preoccupied with the last one. It must be possible to live in several places, not to say everywhere, in Denmark without the great differences in opportunities. It is about equal opportunities for the SF, and we see very much an inequality agenda here because the differences between the city and the country are growing, and it says itself that it is not good for cohesion in Denmark. That is why, in the SF, we will mention some suggestions as to how we continue to think that something more can be done. The demolition pool must remain of a size so that we can keep tearing down the local ghost houses, emptyes and ruins. These are the places that disfigure local communities; no one wants to live in an area with what seems to be called an eyeball. It is estimated that around the Danish country there are more than 10,000 dilapidated houses that can be demolished with advantage. That is why it is good that the government has played out more than in the draft budget, because that was clearly not enough. Then we must continue to fight for the digital infrastructure and proper Internet in rural areas. This is an essential condition for being able to work at home, to participate in distance learning or to run businesses. The pool should be targeted where it is hardest to obtain funding, for example. because there are very few housing units or very peripheral dwellings and where it cannot be expected to happen without aid. And then we would like to add a new point this year, namely on general housing. They are especially needed on our islands, so that older people can leave the house to a new family or so that newcomers can try their lives locally. In Vandel, a village community at Vejle, you want to build in general. The housing companies will not, but maybe a private investor will. That is, of course, a good thing, but it is not always so lucky and it suffocates development if there is no housing, including in the general sector. At Anholt you want housing, but the current support options are not enough. It is therefore just more expensive to build on an island and there are transport costs, and there are fewer units to be built than there are on the mainland. So some other criteria are needed in a possible new pool if you are to help a place like Anholt. At Orø, the housing pool for islands was not reached; it had been used up before reaching the barn and had completed the work of getting a housing company and the municipality on the idea. They can now throw out the plans, because the whole work was conditional on the aid available in the housing pool, which was targeted at the small islands. The 30 million. kr. that was set aside is simply used up in record time, and therefore the SF is working to get some more money set aside, which gives the smallest islands an extra chance • also like a pool that takes into account Anholt's special problem, which is about the maximum amount. So there are still things to address in rural areas. We are not halfway there, but we are, in fact, well on the way with a framework to support the work of creating good living conditions for those who live outside the largest cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109161736	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I do not see anyone from the Radical Left, and then we go to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109161757	Thank you. The report contains a lot of statistics, and it contains a lot of figures. However, allow me to spend some time on this, because we do not really think in the Enhedslisten that a very precise distinction is made between what should be called the province and real rural areas and villages, especially not in the review of the government's many actions described in the statement. A great deal must be said to be aimed at larger towns in the province, although there are of course overlaps for smaller towns and villages. In the Enhedslisten, we focus on the villages and on our many islands, both the small islands and the islands, and we really believe that there is a great need to measure the condition, if I may say so, in the villages, for example. in the 1,277 villages with less than 5,000 inhabitants. There we think it might be nice to have a more targeted statement based on the conditions and living conditions of the almost 2 million Danes who live in villages of this size. In the view of Enhedslisten, it is much more interesting to look at what kind of facilities there are in these places where we can talk about real rural areas and actual villages. How many of the villages have a local food store? How many have a bus connection with a certain frequency etc. etc.? So it is about the facilities in the places in question. It could also be interesting if the rural statement, for example. addressed the recommendations of the Committee on viable villages, which back in 2018, at the time, under much attention, came up with no less than 17 recommendations. It might be useful to look at how many of the requests in the report have been met or are about to be met, how many you do not work at all etc. It's not available in this statement, and I think that's bad. Some of the recommendations of the Committee on viable villages have been met, more or less, by the government. We could identify three, four, five pieces or maybe six with a little good will. This is true, for example. the strengthening of efforts to demolish and rehabilitate the housing stock, which has been mentioned, where a further 150 million have been allocated. kr. in funds for the demolition pool. There are new forms of funding and we can understand that there is a legislative proposal on the way to remedying the problem of borrowing the wrong postal numbers in the eyes of the goose. It is something of a state guarantee on the outermost part of the loan, and it is something we in the Enhedslisten, together with not least SF, have fought hard for for many years. It is also about an adapted and more varied housing offer, with which the Committee was concerned at the time, where a pool was set aside for the establishment of general housing. Then there's just the problem that Mr. Karsten Hønge mentioned that the large islands have run with almost all the money, if you may say so. Of the small islands only Orø benefited from the pot. That is why we are also proposing the creation of a pool which is somewhat larger than the barely 30 million. kr., which was set aside in the previous pool. There remains a whole series of other recommendations made by the committee. That is, for example, the case. the proposal for strategic planning of the municipality's villages and rural areas, so that any movers know whether this is a village that is being invested in the municipality. Is the school being maintained? Is the grocery store gonna stay down? Is the bus coming by? Can more people be expected to move to the village or rural area in question? These include the planning of close public services, i.e. the close welfare of nursing homes, schools, medical services, the distance to the nearest library, etc. etc. A predictability and certainty, as the committee wrote at the time in its report, about the future level of service, of course, has a huge impact on whether you move to a place and settle. There is the whole question of public transport planning, which was also raised by the then committee. I don't really think the government has a bid here. It is true that the whole spectrum of the infrastructure agreement of June is mentioned, but it is not particularly targeted at village level. Here one could mention the idea, which Enhedslisten has put forward many times, of e.g. village buses, driven and operated by a village slave or village council, or whatever it might be. One could also mention the regional hour model drawn up by Danske Regions almost 5-6 years ago, I think. There are Train Foundation DK's speed upgrades on the regional network. There is just the apes dabei that the Togfonden DK is parked by 2030, not least at the Government's initiative in the Infrastructure Agreement. In this context, it might also be interesting to look at another of the recommendations of the Committee on viable villages, namely a more targeted arrangement of the transport allowance. Perhaps in some areas it could be seen whether it could be targeted at public transport or thought together with the link between different modes of transport which is becoming increasingly necessary in the light of the congestion of the roads and the enormous climate impact of the transport sector, cars and lorries. There is the question of the broadband pool, which the government has also included in the statement here, and it is, of course, gratifying to note that the government has bowed to pressure and, in its proposal, has actually set aside 100 million. kr. for the continuation of the broadband pool, including: We in the Enhedslisten have called for this together with many others, and that is then in contrast to the financial act, where the pot was once again gone. It should be borne in mind that there are still 25 000 to 30.000 addresses without fast broadband, and the objective was, and indeed is, that everyone should go along and, as we know, the market does not always work. I also think that we should look here at the proposal from Dansk Energi to make the pot 3-year-old. This should actually be met, so we stop the stop and go policy where the broadband pool is being negotiated every year in the financial negotiations. Proper digital connections are necessary to ensure the settlement and establishment of businesses in rural and village areas. The Committee for viable villages also recommends perhaps a little overarching, one might say closer dialogue and closer cooperation between municipalities and local communities. That sounds very good. In the Enhedslisten we dare to translate that into more power for the villages, simply, which means both formal and real power for example. village council, village low, rural local council, and what they call them. Here we would like the village councils to be given an extended and formal right of consultation in all matters relevant to the village and, moreover, to be provided with their own economy, which they have independently at their disposal. The right of consultation applies, for example. also municipal planning, local plans and changes to the plans. It must also include traffic conditions, traffic safety, noise and pollution, as well as day and club services for children and young people, just to mention some out of a broad spectrum. We believe that village councils should be able to require an indicative vote on, for example. municipal plans for the closure of the local school with the possibility of suspensive effect in the event of there being a majority for it, of course until after the next municipal elections. It is a system that was previously established throughout the country, and we think it could be re-established. But all of this requires a minor change in the law of the administration, and of course we would urge you to look at it. The government will then also set aside 18 million. kr. in support of citizens-run shops, and of course we welcome that, it is very good, although the amount is somewhat smaller than what we proposed three years ago, namely 50 million. kr. We believe that an amount of this size would probably have legs to go on, so we are looking at the 18 million. kr. as a beginning. The local grocery shop is of crucial importance for the smaller villages, and many times it also serves as a gathering place. The development of the small islands still gives cause for concern. It is positive to note that some islands are experiencing an increase in settlements, but the average age remains much higher than in the country as a whole, and therefore it is important to ensure settlement on the islands with housing for families with children. It is worrying that there are a number of barriers that stand in the way of an increased settlement, and I have mentioned the pot for the establishment of non-profit building on our islands, which was quickly cleared by the islands, and that is why a new pool is important, and I hope the Minister will take a positive view of this. It was meant to be a question. Then there is the road principle for ferry transport, with which we have not come quite ashore. The Corona crisis and the measures of free ferry transport and the huge influx of Danish tourists to the islands have given us some important experience, which I think we should take in when we hopefully soon have to discuss and get fully in line with the principle of the road, because we have not arrived. As I began by saying, the rural statement, as we really think it should be called, is very widely dispersed in the countryside and villages, and therefore, in our opinion, it does not provide a very good basis for discussion of the situation all the way out there, where we can really talk about outskirts and significantly different conditions than in the rest of Denmark in balance as it is called. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109162730	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservatives. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109162741	Thank you very much and thank you very much for your statement. I should like to begin by expressing my pleasure at being a part of the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands and, above all, small islands. In late summer we visited both Anholt and the rapporteur from the home island of the Left, Bornholm. And one of the characteristics of the committee, which I enjoy very much, is the breadth of the composition and the good cooperation that is in the committee. I would like to congratulate the other rapporteurs on this. So thank you for that. Nearly half of Denmark's population live outside the major cities. This is a very large proportion, even if we compare ourselves with the other countries of the European Union. However, the trend is that more and more Danes are moving away from the country towards the cities. While the population close to the largest cities has grown by 1%. Annually since 2010, rural areas further away from the largest cities have experienced a decline of almost 6%. during the same period. Developments can be felt and set tracks in many rural areas. Development means closing down shops, jobs and schools. When they are shut down, it becomes more difficult for the individual to make his or her everyday life stick together. Jobs, shopping opportunities, institutions and homes will simply be too far apart. This means that even more people are moving out, and the development becomes self-enhancing. The more people move out of town, the more they close and the more they move as a result of the closure. Of course, in the Conservative People's Party, we want it to be possible to live outside the cities. It must be possible to act in and train and take a job. It must be possible to make a day-to-day relationship. That is why we support, as a starting point, the creation of a greater and better link between the country and the city, so as to prevent the development that can ultimately mean having a desire to live in the countryside. In order to prevent such development, it may be necessary to move education and jobs from the cities to the countryside. We are in favour of this as a starting point. Note the words: as a starting point. We do not see that everything is being unbridled from the cities to the countryside. That would be rationally wrong, especially if it is at the expense of the quality of e.g. training courses. Nor can we see that if relocation results in fewer people taking an education and fewer taking a job. That's not the goal. That is why we must not do it at all costs. We believe that it must be made beneficial to live in the countryside in order to bring about development, but we do not want to do so at the expense of the free choice of the people. You have to be allowed to decide where you want to live and have your daily walk. Good transport opportunities are important. This is particularly true in rural areas where a well-functioning road network and public transport are essential in order to overcome the often greater distances that may exist between, for example. home and work place. Transport opportunities are therefore essential for many when they decide where they settle. We have among other things. Consequently, an agreement was reached with the government and a number of other support parties on the major infrastructure plan, which contains new initiatives in the transport sector across the country, of well over 100 billion. kr. It is precisely the infrastructure that is a good solution, and it gives those who prefer to live in the countryside better opportunities to enter the city, and vice versa. It is an approach that makes it more attractive and actually possible to live or work in the countryside. At the same time, it is an approach that does not force the population or jobs to decentralisation. We consider this to be positive and beneficial. Young people, in particular, move out of small towns. According to Statistics Denmark, a fall of almost 17 per cent is expected. in the number of young people aged 16-19 who live in municipalities further away from the cities, up to 2031. And how do we keep them? The answer is education. Education is our most important card in attracting and sustaining young people. It has also caught and thanks for that and therefore the government has reached an agreement on coordinated registration for new upper secondary education in an attempt to get more young people to take the courses in the country. The agreement includes a new model for the distribution of pupils, forcing pupils in high schools they do not want to go to, in an attempt to strengthen the student base of institutions in sparsely populated areas. We have voted against this agreement. We do, because, as I said, we do not want to push everything unhindered. There must be reason and good thoughts behind it. We do not believe that the solution is for young people to be forced into the countryside. We don't want to force people. It does not benefit the academic study environment when up to half of the enrolled high school students do not want to have schooling there, and I strongly doubt that it will make more young people stay in the countryside. Forced is not the way forward. At least if you ask me. We believe, on the other hand, that the solution is to move some education from the cities to the countryside. In this process, it is important that we keep an eye on and ensure that the necessary quality of training is still present, just as we must keep an eye on the fact that it does not prevent people from taking an education. Among other things: Therefore, in Conservatives, together with the government, we have concluded a political agreement on the framework for more and better educational opportunities throughout Denmark. We're among other things. agreed on a common objective of 60%. In the long term, training places in the four major welfare courses, in particular nurses, free school teachers, educators and social workers, must be outside the main cities. By 2030, the objective will be achieved by creating a thousand new training places outside the four largest cities and by moving approx. A thousand seats from the four largest cities. Better training opportunities outside the major cities also create more skilled labour for the area. More skilled labour in an area requires companies to move in. In this way, the measures will also be of benefit and benefit to the private sector. It is also of great importance for rural areas that there is a local shop life, access to nature, culture, leisure and health care. That is why we welcome the fact that a government pool of 150 million is being set aside. kr. in the period 2022-2027 for the co-financing of urban renewal, as well as 30 million; kr. in the period 2023-2025 for the co-financing of libraries in the city centre. In several parts of the country there is also a lack of medical coverage in general practice. We want to put an end to this. Being able to go to the doctor is core welfare, and it must not be neglected. That is why we look forward to entering into the forthcoming negotiations with a view to putting in place a health agreement which also takes account of the areas outside the cities. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109163446	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109163448	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for, I think, a speech that came all around. I know that the rapporteur has a burning commitment to infrastructure, which is why I am also aware of what the rapporteur says. There was one thing I know the rapporteur is passionate about but did not say. That's why I'm just gonna let myself sign. For all debate in this Parliament should not be just criticism or the throwing of things after each other. That must also be the case. I know that the rapporteur is aware that I was chairing a committee in a large municipality in West Jutland from 2013 to 2017. And it annoyed me, every time we sought money for bike paths, that when the bike trail pools were completed, there was almost only the red parties on it. This was, of course, nice for a social democrat, but I think it is in my view that cycling trails help to create growth in rural areas. It helps to create safe school paths. This helps to make settlements more attractive. Therefore, I would just like to sign that we have now got a broad infrastructure, so since the municipalities are now looking for money for bicycle paths there is an important tool, so that we have built more cycle paths, also in the countryside in the municipalities • there is a broad majority in the Folketing. I would like to sign up to the rapporteur for the great work that was also involved in getting the country a broad agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109163559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109163603	Thank you very much. Exactly bicycle paths in rural areas are extremely important. I know where the rapporteur lives and has worked in the past, and I have to admit that precisely in this area these great superbike paths are really a positive growth. I know that the sale of speed pedaling bikes in the area has increased very, very significantly and will continue to do so precisely because you can travel on a safe and safe bike path and have a good speed in the wheels. So thank you for that. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109163631	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109163632	Not because we need to start a major debate on this, but I think we should also recognise that some of what helps to create growth and development out there in rural areas, to a large extent where we come from, is also an agenda on tourism. And we know that tourism, which contains different physical activities, is cycling, water sports and other things that are growing. There is no doubt that cycling tourism in our area is really helping to create growth and a dynamo for a developing industry. Now that we are about to translate those pools, I think we should also have a very special focus on bicycle tourism in Denmark. I believe this helps to develop our rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109163710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109163711	I very much agree with the rapporteur on this, and I would also like to say that on the communications we receive from, among other things. The rapporteur's area and my own in South Jutland, but also from Funen, can be seen that bicycle tourism is one of the priorities of the agenda. And I am absolutely sure that when they look for it you will also look at it positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109163730	Then it's mr. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109163732	Thank you. Now my good colleague from the Social Democratic Party has praised the good initiatives from that side of the Folketing in relation to the bicycle pools. Can the rapporteur confirm that, long before a narrow agreement on bike paths was reached, large sums of money have been distributed to bike paths around the kingdom, including the involvement of the blue parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109163754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109163755	Yes, the rapporteur can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109163758	Yes, because I come from an island that has so far been bypassed by the narrow red agreement on bike paths. And then it is good that there are also agreements where there are also blue parties, so that there can be bike paths around the whole kingdom and not just where the Social Democrats committee members have been elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109163814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109163818	Exactly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109163821	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109163833	I'm gonna let the rest of you do that crossfire thing. I usually enjoy speaking in this important area of the rapporteur, because this is where you can afford to be a little lyrical. I think I have said this in the past about the fact that in our rural areas and out on the islands it is where it is dark at night and quite starry, and that is where you can hear the birds singing. You will surely also think, and that sometimes I can become a little bit Morten Koch-romantic, but that is really how I think about the parts of Denmark that we are discussing today. There are a whole lot of low-practical things that must of course be gone through, because we have adopted a very, very broad infrastructure plan which precisely ensures a Denmark that is better connected. This is very good, because it is also one of the things that makes it possible to settle in the areas of Denmark, where the infrastructure may not be as well connected today as around the major cities. I am not going to say anything positive about the compensation, because there is an agreement in which there are quite a lot of things that we at least think can be done significantly better. However, a broad agreement has been reached on the police and a very broad agreement has been reached on agriculture. This is also positive for our islands and rural areas. We also want a level playing field; that is, there is the full principle of road transport, so as to ensure that we also have the opportunity to get to the islands which are not currently paved at the same cost: that we can sail 1 km at the same price as it costs to drive 1 km. Then it is also a question of how we will ensure much better opportunities for families with children also to have the desire and opportunity to settle further away from the cities, in other words in what we call rural areas. In fact, I think that there is generally a movement going on among many of those I know. They actually want to go out there where it's dark at night, where the stars light up clearly, where the birds sing, and where the children can play out on the street without being afraid to be run over. But there are some pretty fundamental challenges. We solved some of them with the infrastructure agreement. At least we've come a long way. But it's also a question of you need a lot of these places to have two cars if you're going to make it stick together. That is why it is a very, very clear priority for us in New Citizens that we must, of course, have the registration tax removed. We also need to reduce the tax on petrol. This is one of the things that makes it possible to buy a safe and good car as a family of children, so that you can make it stick together if you choose to settle in these parts of Denmark. It is clear, of course, that we are also opposed to the compulsory distribution adopted in the field of secondary education. Already back in 2019, almost immediately after the elections, a broad agreement was made between all the Danish Parliament's parties, which secured local distribution committees. Even then, I shouted in arms, even then I called the forced distribution "Now, fortunately, there is broad support for it from the bourgeois bloc. Unfortunately, this was adopted. But several bourgeois parties agree with us that we do not want this forced distribution. We should rather make it easier for more people to settle there, and of course it should be based on a free choice and better opportunities for others. These families of children. So I am not going to say much else, because it is quite a list of what is in this statement, but I have outlined here some of the things that have at least been and are important to us in the new citizens. But it is always a pleasure to talk about the areas of Denmark, where there is a little darker at night, where there is absolutely starry, where the birds chirp a little higher, and where the children can play out on the road without being afraid to be driven down. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109164246	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see any rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, the Free Greens or the Christian Democrats. So we give the floor to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109164306	Thank you very much for that, President. I look forward to taking this regional and Henning Hylllested, remember that there are two words in it, and these are two things that are both important for the development of our smaller society. I do, of course, because I have been committed to it and believed that we should do something else in this area for many years, and then there are other colleagues who have been responsible, both as a minister and also before. When I sat in the Folketing and was rapporteur, there were some others who had this area. But now I've finally been allowed to stand here! The first thing I want to say, and which is the most important thing, is that development, and where people move, is not just something that happens by itself; it also has something to do with how we organize our society. Of course, there will continue to be specialization in our society. There will be more moving towards some of the big cities. At the same time, however, we must also recognise that some of the political decisions that have been taken have also made people move to larger cities because we have closed many functions in smaller communities and have not given priority to the professions that have been in smaller communities. I think this is important because it is political and it is about whether you want a political country that is connected. It's not just something that's a law of nature. I remember sometime in 2014 there was a fold where it said that stopping centralisation is like standing out in front of a freight train and shouting stop. And there aren't many people who want to do that, because you're gonna get ripped apart, and then some poor falcon guy has to pick up your pieces. Anyway, I actually think you can stop. I think that was the wrong way to look at it. I think we need to look at how we can create a wider development around the country and not just in the big cities. As has also been said, there are a number of changes that we are mapping out in relation to the statement. Since 2010, the population of the larger cities has increased to over 45,000 inhabitants such as Elsinore, Roskilde, Silkeborg, Horsens and so on up to the capital, which is after all the largest city. a year, while rural areas have fallen by 6%. This is, of course, a problem in terms of creating coherent communities. But what we can also see is that there is beginning to be a great deal of migration to many of our small communities, especially families with children. Some of this may be due to the situation we have been in the last year and a half with corona. You may be able to work more at home, and it may be a little tight to be in the cities. Now I heard Enhedslisten's chief mayor's candidate say that you were in line to be allowed to walk in a walk around the lakes in Copenhagen. Now I haven't been in line to be allowed to walk around the lakes, but it can feel a little strange when you have your own lake in many parts of the country, which you can walk around, and otherwise you can decide for yourself the direction. I guess it might feel a little weird standing there in line. So that way there can be something at stake. But it is clear that, at the same time, there is also the fact that the number of elderly people is growing in rural areas. There is nothing wrong with being older; we should be happy that people live longer, but it also means that the average age is rising somewhat and there is the prospect, as the Conservative rapporteur said, that there are fewer young people, especially in the group that attends high school. There will be 11,500 fewer in 10 years, compared to what it looks like today. This also means, of course, that there is a challenge for our youth education. In some places, we run the risk of turning the keys. In the short term, it will be difficult to recruit for many of our youth education programmes, and it does of course mean that people, when they settle somewhere, also look at where their children can go to school and what education they can take here in the local area. Of course, it will have a meaning. That's why we've made an agreement to sign up for the gymnasium degree programmes. I know that there are some parties outside, but as I have been told, some of the parties outside were actually in agreement with the section on rural areas. You don't have to nod, sir. Peter Juel-Jensen, but that is at least how I have understood it. But there were some other things in the deal you didn't like. I think there is a broad recognition that we need to secure some of our smaller high schools, it could be in Nykøbing Mors, or it could be in Faaborg, Fjerritslev or Høng or other places where you need this admission basis of about 70 pieces. An agreement was made, fortunately broadly in the Danish Parliament, which ensures that they have better opportunities to develop, and at the same time we now propose from the government that all cities with at least 10,000 inhabitants should have the opportunity to make offers for youth education as well. There are therefore cities in Denmark which are of that size and which still have no educational provision. Then we can look at higher education, that there has been a centralisation in relation to the total number. By 2020 there were only 40,000 people who completed higher education. This is a doubling compared to 1990, when there were 22,000 people. It is clear that the increase that has taken place has been, above all, in the larger cities. We say that 60%. of the training places in welfare education should be outside the four largest cities. We made an agreement on this, which almost the whole parliament was involved in, and which we are of course very happy to agree to create 1,000 new training places and move approx. One thousand seats, all in all. Today we have published some of the approvals that have been made; among other things. a pedagogic education in Holbæk, a midwife's degree programme in Slagelse and a number of other courses which are now formally approved and will work out there. Then I would like to talk a little about the production industries: agriculture and tourism and some of the industries that are very important in the country. There have been problems for the tourism sector because of the covid-19. It is VisitDenmark's assessment that there is a loss of approx. 40 billion. kr. from 2019 to 2020 and it is clear that it also hits hard in rural areas, as well as hitting urban tourism hard. We have made a number of agreements to support the professions and try to get them back on their feet. These are broad agreements on a summer package and a business package which must do something for the tourism industry, and so, of course, as has also been mentioned, an agreement on Danish agriculture, which must provide and maintain jobs, while at the same time doing so in a climate-friendly and environmentally friendly way, and of course it is of great interest to many of those who are in rural areas to secure the 93 million. kr. to local action groups up to 2027. Then there will be calm about that funding, and I think there are a lot of people who are happy about that, and we have increased it by a further 12.5 million. kr. from the brexite reserve, so that we get up to this 105.5 million. kr. for the next two years. There will be an opportunity to create a number of good projects, as we already see, within the local action groups. These are some of those who are starting up some of our very small communities and who are also creating concrete and lasting jobs. In relation to the statement, there is also an overview of state jobs which was transferred in May 2021 and which shows that the work initiated by the previous government is beginning to come to an end. It happened to be in my own home town, Holbæk, that jobs had to be relocated, so I also promised to the Committee on Finance, when we had a consultation on it, that I would personally keep an eye on that too, and it has done so; they are inaugurated. In addition to the jobs that were withdrawn, we have announced by the government last year that we will strengthen the Tax Administration with 1,000 new jobs, and a tax centre has been set up in Fredericia and one in Albertslund. These were the first 250 employees. Then comes the trip to Viborg, Esbjerg and then to Ringe on Funen and to Slagelse and then in the last round to Svendborg and Frederikshavn. So it is some jobs that are being created around the country and, of course, some of them in larger cities there we also know about it, as Mr. Henning Hyllested commented, but I also think that if there is a tax centre in Esbjerg, it will also be easier to live on Fanø or live in the Oksbøl area or in Varde Municipality or even live in some of the municipalities around some of the rural areas. It also matters that the jobs are there, even if they may be located in one of the main cities in an area. There is also a challenge with regard to our proximity to health care. There are 107 000 citizens, as the statement says, who only have one or no choice when choosing a doctor, and there are 60 000 citizens living in health-care areas. Especially North and West Jutland, Southern Denmark, West and South Zealand, Lolland and Falster are some of the places where we experience this trend. The health service has undergone positive developments, and I also believe that the specialization of health services with higher efficiency and quality is something we should be delighted about, but it is also the case that when treatment services are combined, some citizens get further to the hospital and the proximity risks disappearing. Of course, this particularly affects patients with chronic diseases and the elderly, and that is why we have also proposed by the government to set aside an investment framework of 4 billion. kr. 20 new near hospitals around the country, and we have a goal of better medical coverage in all parts of the country. We propose an obligation of practice during specialist training in general medicine and a strengthening of the distribution of training doctors and targeted action in areas where there is a shortage of doctors, among other things. By doing license clinics. Finally, we propose to strengthen the emergency response in rural areas with ambulances, emergency medical cars and emergency cars, and to provide better coverage in municipal action. I would also like to talk a little about grocery stores, and the statement we have here shows that many people are closed, and it has a huge impact on the individual village, whether you have grocery stores. It is a pity that many small shops are closing down, but it is also great to see how much will and impetus there is in the local community to set up new citizen-run grocery stores. It is a development where the local community takes responsibility for ensuring that there is an opportunity to buy its groceries close to where you live. It is really an old idea, the utility association, which is revived, that you go together to create your stores, and to support it we have created a matching pool of 18 million. kr. for co-financing when small communities want to establish or develop citizen-driven grocery stores. These are, of course, those who already have some money, because it is a subsidy. It is not something you get and where you can run a store for a few years, and it may even close, but it must be places where there is a real demand. The demolition pool is also a challenge, and it has been said that it disfigures the landscape in many places. We do not have a precise inventory of how many houses there are, but if we look at all-year homes that are not registered with accommodation, then that is a certain proportion, and it is in some of the most pressured municipalities. In our statement there is a map of where you have had these demolitions, and that is one of them. municipalities such as Lolland, Morsø, Thy and Guldborgsund, where there are relatively many dots on the map. We have increased the pool and in the current year we have increased it by 150 million. kr., so that we got up to this 262 million. kr., I think it was. Next year there will be 200 million. kr., and it will still be among the highest coinage, and I think it is important. For it is a pool which is very well used in many places. In relation to broadband, it is true that this year too we have set aside money for it. This is essential to ensure that you can have a place of residence and a place of work in rural areas. That was something many people experienced here while they were shut down. Telecommunications providers have quickly rolled broadband out to many addresses in recent years, but there are also a lot of people who still do not have access to it, and so we continue to contribute to broadband coverage with this broadband pool for rural areas where there is no prospect of the market covering it, and that is still 100 million. kr., which we set aside. I would also just like to say a few words about the small islands I mentioned. After all, there are these 27 small islands that we are fortunate enough to have such an island in our circle; at least I am, and I am delighted with it, and it is some that have received attention and that should properly have it. During the decommissioning process, many Danes have also visited our beautiful islands around the country because of the cheaper ferry tickets and free ferry tickets, and for some it has become a more permanent acquaintance. This applies, among other things, to: on Agersø or Orø in Isefjorden, where you have had a population increase. This is not something you have seen for many years, and we also have a small figure in our statement, where you can see that there have been falling figures, but that here for the last 3-4 years there has been a fairly stable population. We should be very happy about this, and the transport possibilities mean a great deal, of course. In the major infrastructure agreement, we also set aside 200 million. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. kr. to co-finance investments in the green domestic ferries. So in addition to the part of the road principle that we have financed, money has also been set aside to ensure that there are some up-to-date ferries. So I would also like to mention, when we are in the small islands, that it was a broad agreement, but also very much because of the efforts of the Danish People's Party, that we set aside this pool for general housing on the islands, not just the small islands, but also the four islands, and I have to admit, when we made that agreement, that I thought: I wonder how long it takes for that money to be set aside? Yes, I thought: I hope they are set aside within the six years of the agreement. That was the first thing I thought, because otherwise it would also look a little silly to me as a minister, but it went very fast. In Marstal 34 common homes are built and Læsø and I also believe in Samsø. On Orø in Icefjorden, you got some of these homes. I think it's six homes, but there are other places where you just haven't reached it in the small islands, because that pool was emptied so quickly, and we have of course also noted that we have to look at how we can secure it forward, so that the great success that we have had to put that pool of, can continue, so that you can get some good rentals around the islands, which you might also be able to move into. If you've lived on a farm or a farmhouse all your life and you start to be up in the years, it's a great opportunity, or if you move to and maybe just have to try out the island life, it's also an option that you don't have if you're going to buy a home. To conclude, I think that the statement shows signs of positive development, but that there are still imbalances between urban communities and our rural areas. We believe that it is extremely important for the government to smooth out the various possibilities for development and to ensure that there is a level playing field so that those who want to create growth in small societies have just as good opportunities for it as those who want to create growth in large societies. Denmark is too small a country for great differences, and fortunately there is broad acceptance of this in the Folketing, and I welcome that. I would like to thank you for all your fine speeches, and I also hope that we can continue the debate, if not here, at least in the open. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109165854	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109165859	Thank you. The minister was briefly suggested that we in the Left agreed with that forced printing for the high schools. Surely we are not at all, and that is why we are not part of that agreement either. What we have been calling for in the field of youth education is a taximeter reform. This was something on which we agreed before the elections and on which the Minister's party pressed a lot, that is to say, that we had to make sure that there was not so much focus on the activities of the individual school, but a larger basic grant. We agreed on this before the elections, and since then nothing has happened in this area. You completely forgot to look at the meter. In other words, youth education in rural areas, where there are not so many young people, is not being paid. In other words, they then find it difficult to make an economy work together. They find it difficult to finance a green transition both in education and in their institutions. So it would suit the minister's party rather than stand and shame a report you have made yourself that you want and stand by the things you said before the elections. [Sound emission].
ParlaMint-DK_20211109170007	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109170009	Well, it was actually an attempt to be kind, namely to say that I have respect for the ambition to secure the small high schools, regardless of whether or not an agreement has been reached for other reasons. But I can see that those were wasted words. Now I won't say a few words in here that you can't say. But that is, if the Left is not interested in maintaining and ensuring a real opportunity for maintaining high schools in Morsø, Grindsted, Faaborg, Høng, elsewhere, then you are free to do so. But this is a concrete guarantee that there can be these 72 students in admissions that have been requested in the rural gymnasiums. I must honestly say that I do not actually understand that the Left will not be involved in this, just as I do not understand that the Left would not be involved in setting up local police stations. I don't get it, because when I meet the Left, all the good local trusted people who are in the Left, in my own area and around the country, when I'm around giving talks about this, I see a great demand for solutions like this. But for christiansborgtactic reasons, you did not want to go into that, and you have to explain that yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109170110	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109170112	What the Minister must understand is that rural policy should not divide anyone into A and B teams. If we want to have high schools in rural areas, then it should be so that we are elected, not that we have been elected from elsewhere. After all, at a time when we have a lot of focus on the climate, we have to drive past the nearest high school to be transported to another. It has to be a free choice. It must be freedom that prevails. I am well aware that the Minister is having a very, very difficult time with freedom and people's own ability to influence their own lives. But don't drag it down over the left's head. We would like to have good upper secondary education, but that also means that a reform is needed, which does not reward an activity but provides a greater basic grant, for pupils no. So 13, 14, 15 and twenty-six are less expensive than the first students cost when they have to keep such a class running.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109170200	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109170203	Well, it's the ideological freedom talk on which the Left did the high school reform and on which the Left has made a lot of reforms that have been devastating and that have made small communities more difficult. Lots of institutions have been closed around the country. If you want to run that ideological Uffe Ellemann thing, you just do it. I just don't think people in Morsø understand why you're closing their high school because there's something with an ideological freedom concept that you've spoken up. I do not think that people in Faaborg understand why they close their high school because the Left will not find a solution. I don't think people in Fjerritslev understand. I do not understand what that ideology is supposed to do in this debate and in this group of rapporteurs, where we are usually able to meet in a reasonably reasonable manner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109170241	Thanks for that. There is one more brief comment, and it is from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109170247	I have, of course, noticed that this is called a regional and rural statement, but that is also my appeal, that is to say, that we have a statement which, in my opinion, is diffused because it includes a great deal outside the large cities, so that almost any initiative you take politically will be relevant in that way. I also think that the Minister's examination here bears the stamp of the attitude of raining it on the priest, then it drips on the clerk. And, of course, it is quite true that there are limits to what can be put out of jobs or educational establishments, i.e. in how small towns you can put it. I fully agree with that. And putting it into center towns or major cities means that there will also be a greater proximity to the villages that may be nearby. But the problem is just that and I think the debate here is also marked by the fact that we will never really discuss what we do in the towns, villages, with less than 5,000 inhabitants, for example. How do we take action there to strengthen efforts and their development? It becomes totally dependent on what you get laid out in the major cities and center cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109170400	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109170401	I do not entirely agree with that and I also think that the category of up to 5 000 inhabitants is very wide. I mean, there are plenty of cities with 4,000 inhabitants, such as: has a high school there are at least some cities that have it. I would say that this is how it is my experience that when you close a teacher seminar in Holbæk, in the small towns of Odsherred, the proportion of people who have a teacher education in schools falls by 7%. is 27 per cent. in five years; that is, worse education in Asnæs, Sheepvejle and Hørve and all the small towns. This is linked: there are some things that we just have to accept are inseparable and that are about saying that regional cities mean a great deal to our rural areas. But that doesn't mean that I agree with the questioner that there aren't any things specific to the very small communities, that is, the possibility of expanding the village with new land as one of the things or loans in rural areas, small schools etc. I fully agree with that is an independent issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109170503	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109170505	Yes, and of course I agree with that very much. But it remains to be seen that there are special problems for the very small urban communities. In other words, the development and community of the cities are many times driven and it has also been made clear in the past by fire-souls. And for us, it's a lot about, I'm sorry, you can't say that, but for us, it's a lot about how we get that effort supported. We have proposed village and village buses run by the locals, so that you actually get public traffic that is flexible and that is present when it has to be present, etc. etc. We will never have time to discuss this when we make the statement here as wide as we do. And that is why I would like to see it split up into a rural village statement and perhaps a slightly larger regional statement in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109170603	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109170605	Well, I just don't agree with that. And 1⁄2 minute is perhaps too little time to explain it, but the essence for me is that of course it matters to the development on Lolland-Falster, which offer is in Nykøbing Falster. So, if there are state jobs, good educational establishments, high-quality health services, it can of course also do so, that there are more people who say: this could be a place where we can live. But of course we must also be able to discuss it with a focus on the very small towns with 200, 300, 400 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109170637	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109170647	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is the Socialist rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109170708	Thank you. Today we have to deal with a legislative proposal which is about adjusting the contribution rate to the maternity compensation scheme so that it can continue to be self-financing. It is the case that this scheme has been created in order for private employers and self-employed workers to pay an annual compulsory contribution rate so that they can receive compensation during maternity leave. In June, the Board of Directors of ATP decided to increase the annual contribution rate for both employers and self-employed workers from DKK 1,225. to DKK 1,350, which means that this is an additional annual contribution of DKK 125. This is a position that we support on the part of the Social Democrats, because by increasing the contribution rate we maintain the system as self-financing. That is why we can also support the bill, which is in line with the recommendation of ATP's Board of Directors. It is also the case that I welcome the fact that this year the self-employed are part of the maternity compensation scheme. This is the result of a political desire to improve the conditions under which self-employed workers are given maternity leave and to strengthen all equality in this area. Among other things, it has to be done. help to remove the economic barriers that younger women can experience by starting an independent business. So we in the Social Democratic Party have to recommend the bill and I have promised on behalf of the Radicals to say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109170844	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109170903	Thank you for the floor, President. In the Left, we are in favour of entrepreneurship, just as we want even more people to become self-employed, and we are doing so for a large number of reasons: firstly, because entrepreneurship itself is a good and sympathetic goal for social development and because it contributes to economic growth. To have a good idea, to dare to act on it, to take the leap and not least the responsibility for your own lives and dreams is simply exemplary. Making an extra effort and taking responsibility is a prerequisite for our rich society. In the Left, therefore, we hope that more people, whether they are women or men, will in future see becoming self-employed as something worth striving for and making an effort to achieve. However, if you are to take the trouble and try to become independent, if you are to make the extraordinary effort it takes to stand on your own feet, then it must of course be accompanied by some good conditions. Otherwise, people give up being their own boss. That is why, as a starting point, the Liberal Party welcomes this bill, or rather, we can at least understand and share the intentions behind the bill. The draft law stems from the fact that in the last assembly the government allowed the self-employed to be included in the same terms of maternity as private employers. It is sympathetic to try to make it more attractive for women in particular to become self-employed. In this way, self-employed people have been included in the maternity compensation scheme. The draft law we are debating today increases the contribution rate so that it matches the actual costs of the scheme, so that the scheme remains self-financing. Just as when we dealt with L 80 last year, we still believe that the proposal for how this model should be financed is going to be quite wrong. Yeah, maybe 1,350 kroner. a year may not sound like much, but when it can already be hard and difficult to be self-employed and it is not always a gold mine, it is in fact inappropriate to impose another cost on self-employed people. This gives rise to the question of whether a different and better financing model could have been found. As I said, the intentions behind the bill are quite sympathetic and certainly something that the Left can nod to and approve. Perhaps the government and its support parties could have found a better arrangement for the self-employed who are struggling to finance maternity leave if the Left had been invited to the negotiations to which the proposal we are debating today relates. But the short part of the length is that the Left was not invited to the negotiations, and that is why we are not included in the political agreement on the basis of which the maternity compensation system was extended and which gives rise to the proposal we are debating today to increase the contribution rate. That is why funding is also unacceptable to us. We stand firm on our tax stop. Danes, businesses and entrepreneurs need to be assured that they will not be burdened with additional new taxes and taxes overnight. Although the extra charge in this proposal is not the largest, the bill still runs up. For we must not forget that many companies and self-employed people have paid the price for the government's corona strategy with long closures, just as the government has implemented or proposed new taxes several times since the elections. So the Left will not burden businesses and the self-employed further. With that, I would just like to say thank you for the floor and add that the Left is looking forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109171236	Thank you. There is one brief comment. It's from sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109171240	Thank you. It's just to be fully aware of it. I understand perfectly well that the Left says that you should not burden the employer, but I have not quite caught whether the Left will vote against the proposal or they will vote yellow. I understand that the Left will not vote in favour of the proposal. But does the Left vote against, or does it vote yellow?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109171300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109171302	So, to L 4, we voted yellow, and we're gonna make this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109171304	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109171307	Then it is quite in line with what happened in 2020, when the Left also voted yellow. This is what the Left is doing this time too, and we in the Danish People's Party also think that makes sense, because this funding here is not good. It was just to get it completely in place and make sure I'd caught it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109171333	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109171335	That's correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109171337	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109171354	Thank you for that, President. This bill may seem very simple, and it is also simple, because the only thing in it is to raise from DKK 1,225 the own payment to be paid by the employer for maternity compensation. DKK 1,350. It can then be said that it may not be so much and that it can easily be done and that it has to be self-financing, but we also know that there are quite a lot of people who are not scary, but very many small self-employed people who are subject to a lot of expenses, also very many self-employed people who could never benefit from such a scheme themselves here. We know that. In the Danish People's Party we thought that self-employed people should also have maternity leave. Of course they do. We also agree with the intentions of this. And it is not, as the rapporteur of the Left also said, that the self-employed should not be given maternity leave, and it is not that we disagree with the intention that they should be guaranteed maternity leave. It is a question of whether it is the right funding and the right way to do it. When we dealt with the bill last time in 2020, as rapporteur, I mentioned that perhaps we should look at turning it all around to giving the self-employed, when they were going on maternity leave, a tax credit where they themselves could share out the future when they were going on maternity leave. We also know that there are a lot of self-employed people who can't just skip it all. They can't just leave the company and say: I'm going on maternity leave for a long time. It is not always possible, and therefore the most appropriate thing for them to be allowed to share it over a longer period of time. Then we think that one way of supporting them was to give them a tax credit when they were going on maternity leave so that they could still deduct the expenses they had by operating the business from the income there. But of course there is no majority in favour of this, and the Danish People's Party was also not involved in the crucial negotiations on this maternity compensation, so the last time the Danish People's Party voted yellow. But we have actually chosen to say no to the proposal this time, because that is a completely wrong way of doing it. Because what happens next? Then maybe the government will come in a year to get the movement set up again. We don't know anything about that, but it's a wrong way of financing it. Of course the self-employed must have maternity leave, that is clear, but I just think there should be another way to do it. So the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109171653	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109171701	We have to keep up with time and we have to regulate rates that are out of date. The rate of contribution to the maternity compensation scheme must be better equal to the cost. That's why it's gonna have to go up a little bit. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109171718	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109171729	Well, I can say that on the Enhedslisten side, we also support the bill. We think it is very sensible to make this adaptation of the law and we think it is sensible to increase the contribution rate to the maternity compensation scheme. So warm support from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109171744	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservatives. Niels Flemming Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109171753	Thank you very much. As a starting point, we are slightly positive about the proposal. We have, however, asked a question. 46 on whether the Minister will indicate how many self-employed people are using the Barsel Foundation as it is today. Unfortunately, we have not yet received an answer to that and we cannot take a position on it until we have seen that answer and have thus found out how much the self-employed have paid into the scheme and thus how much money there is in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109171818	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur. No, then we go ahead, but I do not see anyone from the Liberal Alliance, nor anyone from the Free Greens, nor is there anyone from the KD. Then we give the floor to the Minister for Employment who is in office. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109171849	Thank you very much to the President-in-Office. Thank you to the rapporteurs for the debate on the draft law. I am pleased that today we have a maternity compensation scheme which applies both to private employers and to self-employed workers, as it helps to promote equality in Denmark in the broad sense. We now have the task of ensuring that the compensation scheme continues to be self-financing, which means that the payment of refunds to private employers and compensation to self-employed workers must be financed by contributions from • yes, private employers and self-employed workers as a whole. ATP's Board of Directors decided this summer to raise the contribution rate from DKK 1,225. DKK 1,350. to ensure that the scheme remains self-financing. It is proposed that the rate be increased in accordance with the recommendation of ATP's Board of Directors. The draft law means that the maternity compensation scheme will continue to be self-financed. I look forward to the further discussion of the draft law, and we will of course answer the question submitted by the Conservatives. I shall, of course, make myself available to the next committee, including for the answers to other questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109172000	There are no brief comments. We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109172015	The debate is now open, and the first rapporteur is the Socialist rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109172048	If this bill is adopted, we can welcome a lot of new Danes. A Danish citizenship is not born if you receive it as part of a bill, and therefore it is of course a great declaration of confidence from the rest of the population. For us here in the Chamber and for most other Danes, Danish citizenship is something special, because it is a definitive proof that you are part of the Danish community, the Danish nation. This does not mean that it is finer to be Danish than to be Argentine, Indian or Australian. One citizenship is not finer than the other. But for us as a nation, it is crucial that we, who are Danish citizens, also form a real community. That we are a community formed by more and more than a practical measure to have a passport when travelling. That is why we have had strict rules on who can become citizens for several years now. In the spring, we tightened them further in an agreement with the Left, the Conservatives, the Liberal Alliance and the Social Democrats. From now on, persons who have been sentenced to a conditional or unconditional sentence will therefore be excluded from Danish citizenship. At the same time, the claims are imposed on persons who have been fined more than DKK 3,000. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done in this area. In the past there has been no demand for employment, and it was also introduced by that agreement. The agreement also added questions about Danish values to the citizenship test, and in addition the agreement contains several other elements. The bill introduces the handshake at the constitutional ceremonies. The requirement for handshakes also applies to those who have previously been admitted to a bill on the communication of citizenship requiring participation in a constitutional ceremony but who have not been able to participate because of corona. The people who stand on this bill that we have to deal with today have worked hard to meet the strict requirements. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I would therefore like to congratulate them on being able to call themselves Danish citizens soon. Social democracy supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109172304	The way for them. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109172309	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, whom I have always regarded as a very conservative minded Social Democrat, who has forgotten his jacket, for the first time I have seen the rapporteur dressed less neatly in the Chamber. Well, this agreement that we have made is a very good one, and the rapporteur himself has already mentioned this. But it is not an agreement that does not necessarily catch all the stinging vessels. That is why we in the Conservatives have asked the Minister a great many questions and asked for cases to be forwarded. It is also the role of the Folketing: to control the government. But the Minister has said no on the whole over and over again; we do not want to ignore matters; we do not want to answer questions about how many people are in debt and how many have one thing and the other. Does the rapporteur really think that the Minister is serving the Folketing to the extent that a minister should, by not sending all this information so that we do not just have to sit and vote blindly when we have to vote?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109172358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109172400	I think the Minister is serving the Folketing well in this context. For it has been the case for many years, even under previous governments, that there are a number of objective criteria to be met, and it is in relation to crime and permanent residence permits and various other things that must be met before one can even consider Danish citizenship. If you can live up to them, then the Folketing can say: If you live up to these rules, you are worthy to become a Danish citizen. After all, there are some cases of doubt in which, as you know, it is the Committee on the Rights of the Child to decide whether to grant dispensations if there is something that we cannot live up to, or if someone has a conviction for having had marijuana on him at a party in the United States sometime in the 1960s, and some of the types of examples that we sometimes saw in committee, when I myself was the rapporteur in it. And that is why I do not think there is anything unreasonable about the Minister's starting point being that all those who live up to the rules of the Folketing, including Mr. Marcus Knuth's party, so you can come up with the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109172506	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109172508	It should of course be the case that the role of the committee is both to be able to dispense, and we do, but also to be able to say: there are some people on the bill that we, despite the fact that they live up to the circular, do not think should have citizenship. It happens that the Minister is also sending names over which he calls on the committee to tamper, and that is what we typically do. But it is not fair that it is only the Minister who can say: I think they should not have it anyway, because they have done something that does not live up to what we think is good behaviour. But in committee we cannot take the decisions independently, for the sole reason that the Minister refuses to transmit the information. So would the rapporteur not agree that because of this we risk having to sit here and vote blindly?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109172548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109172550	No, sir. Marcus Knuth's party, and several other parties, have, among other things, tightened the rules on how to acquire citizenship, as I mentioned earlier. We did so only in the spring, we did so together, and I think that is a good thing. When we then make some rules that say that you have to live up to it and that in relation to employment, crime and other matters • I think it would be unworthy of a rule of law if it were so that you were randomly tormented out for reasons I don't really see there should be if you've lived up to these rules. That is why I do not think there is anything reasonable in saying that we should regret the fact that we cannot promote some form of discrimination.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109172633	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109172653	Thank you for that, President. Danish citizenship is something very special. It is quite unique, it is certainly the finest gift one can receive as a foreigner from Danish society. It is also important to make it clear that Danish citizenship is not a right. Danish citizenship is just a gift. And like Christmas Eve, where you also have to behave well to get the good gifts, this is also a gift you must have earned. And that is why we in the Left find it only fair that strict demands are made on those who want to get the red beet passport in their hands: you have to be able to use the Danish language, you have to stick to the right side of the law, you have to be self-supporting and contribute to Danish society, you have taken Danish values into account and you have to meet a number of other fair and reasonable demands. When we last dealt with the law on citizenship, we had just reached a new agreement on the rules governing the granting of citizenship. It was an agreement that we in the Left were happy about, and we are, in fact, still away, especially because there were some clear left prints. Especially the fact that we had a renewed focus on Danish values, and that is why we are very excited that the new citizenship test is ready, so that these very issues of value will be included in the future. We also tightened up the part about crime, so it is now clear that you cannot come to Denmark, commit a serious crime and then be rewarded with a Danish passport. We think this is sensible and we welcome the fact that this bill has already brought this part of crime into force. This bill also proposes to implement the requirement to shake hands with the local mayor when taking part in a constitutional ceremony. It's been paused because of... Corona, but now it is back, not only at constitutional ceremonies, but throughout society, and we are quite happy about that, also because our conviction is that, after the system of constitutional ceremonies has worked for some time, it is actually a resounding success. It is local festival days, it is local celebrations where both the new Danish citizens and the municipality in which they live can celebrate the joyous event. By first examining the bill here today, we are taking one step closer in relation to the fact that those who then meet the requirements can now get the gift of becoming Danish citizens. Therefore, even though the bill has not yet been adopted, on behalf of the Left, I would also like to congratulate those who end up getting through the needle's eye and can call themselves part of the Danish community. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109173000	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it is from Mrs Susan Kronborg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109173003	Thank you. We would very much like to know whether it is also the position of the Left Party that this division should take place into area groups, as described in the citizenship agreement recently concluded here before the summer holidays. And is the Left going to vote in favour of a division of the bill, possibly with a division into groups of countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109173035	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109173037	I have to correct the Radical Left's question: it is not part of the agreement on new rules for the granting of citizenship that people are to be divided into different regions in the future. And this is also evident from the fact that this bill is a single legislative proposal. So such a division has simply not been agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109173101	Mrs. Susan Kronborg, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109173102	Thank you very much for your answer. One further question: is the Left going to vote against it if it should happen that there was a proposal to divide the bill from another party?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109173119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109173120	It is, of course, a very hypothetical issue, but the Left supports the fact that we are treating it as a single legislative proposal in this Chamber. However, we would very much like to see a much more individual treatment done in the process, both in committee and in the application process itself. That is why, in the last negotiations on new rules, we also proposed the introduction of a dialogue model so that, on a more individual basis, the people who should be Danish citizens could be considered. We think this is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109173147	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109173149	The rapporteur says that citizenship is a gift and not a right, and I would like to ask the rapporteur if this is not just something the rapporteur himself is trying to figure out. In my optics, it is very important that citizens living in a country can also have rights that also affect whether they can vote, that they can be part of our society. I think that is quite appropriate. The UN Declaration on Human Rights also states that all citizens have the right to some kind of citizenship, so it has a great deal to do with rights. Is it not a little strange to stand up and think that the rapporteur thinks it is a gift to stand and distribute? Shouldn't there be a little more legal practice in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109173236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109173238	I completely disagree with everything the questioner has just said. This is not something I am making up; it is, in fact, something described in the constitution of the Danish Empire, which states that the only way to obtain citizenship is by law. So it's sort of something that comes all the way back from when we made up the Danish Empire's constitution, and that's why I'm not making it up. There are also several of the theorists and politicians and philosophers who over the years have shaped the discussion about Danish citizenship who have talked about it here, including Grundtvig, who has said: To a people they all belong, as they all count themselves for that, have for the mother tongue, have for the homeland fire. Already then Grundtvig said that it is okay to make demands on those people who want to be part of the Danish community. So no, it is not a right to become a Danish citizen. It is fair enough that we are making some demands. Now I cannot ask back questions, but I will ask when the rapporteur gets on the floor, but I would find it strange if there are parties in this room who say that citizenship is a right to which you have the right, regardless of how you behave, regardless of whether you abide by the law, whether you speak Danish or not. It is not, and it will never be the policy of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109173340	Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109173342	It is not the policy of Enhedslisten either. It is quite fair that there are demands to be met, for example. that one should be able to speak Danish. It is quite right that we should make some demands. But what the rapporteur is doing, when you stand up and say that this is a gift, is not a recognition of the huge effort that citizens who may have been here in 10 are putting in Denmark. When they pay taxes when they are part of our society, you should also say: of course, you must also have the opportunity to be part of society and have the opportunity to participate in the vote. To the fact that the rapporteur says that this is not just something he makes up, I would say that it says in human rights that you have the right to have some kind of citizenship, so the rapporteur must probably deal with that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109173421	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109173423	It is In the constitution of the Danish Empire that citizenship is granted by law. Grundtvig, one of the thinkers who may have had the most influence on how we grant citizenship in Denmark, said the words I just quoted him for. So it's not just something I'm making up. For us, it is important to make strict demands to become a Danish citizen, but if you meet those requirements, you must of course also have the opportunity to acquire citizenship. But giving people a gift does not seem to me to be talking down citizenship; I think it is the opposite, namely to speak up citizenship. I mean, most people who get a gift are gonna be happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109173458	Thank you. There are no further brief comments, which means that we will move on to Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109173506	Thank you for the floor. Of course, citizenship is never a right. Just as much as you have the right to marry the man or woman you want to marry, you have no right to citizenship in another country. This requires that the country or future spouse actually wishes to enter into a binding community with the person seeking citizenship or with the person who wants to marry. And citizenship is at the same time the innermost line of defense for the Danish nation. We can only defend the Danish nation if we take citizenship deeply, deeply seriously. This is a very, very serious matter. L 56 on citizenship, which we are discussing today, concerns 2,104 adults and 710 children. Of the adults, there are 528 from MENAPT countries, i.e. from Middle Eastern and North African countries plus Turkey, i.e. from Muslim countries. The group on the 528 deals with both people from MENAPT countries and stateless persons. At the same time, the law introduces handshake requirements again. The good thing about this law is that the proportion of citizens from MEAPT countries has fallen to a quarter. The largest groups in the law are Germans and English, then Turkey comes with 90, Ukraine is the fourth largest with 76 applicants, Iraq is the fifth largest with 73. However, it is positive that there are fewer from MENAPT countries and more from countries that are not MENAPT countries. In the Danish People's Party we do not think that it is a problem that people from the Nordics or Western countries and non-Muslim non-Western countries get citizenship in Denmark, as long as it is not in a completely crazy number, but we are very nervous about giving many citizenships to people with Islamic background. We do not want an Islamisation of Denmark, we want a ceiling on the number of people from these countries. That is why we also want sections 3 and 8, which include the citizens of the MEAPT countries, to be put on another, in other words a separate legislative proposal, so that we can vote in favour of some of the paragraphs and no to others. And we want to vote against the METAPT Group and yes to the rest. The Danish People's Party will be tabling amendments on this. At the same time, we would like to know whether there are any of the citizens who are seeking from Western countries and who seem to have a western background, who really have a MEAPT background. You may be German or have a German passport, but you may be immigrants from Somalia or Afghanistan or other countries. So we would also like to know that before we take a final position. In the Danish People's Party we are unhappy that we cannot know what religious or cultural background people have. We know, as I have already said, that there are 528 countries from MEAPT, but we do not know whether there are persecuted Christians among them whom we would actually like to vote in favour of. We have asked for this information in the past and for it to be given at least in confidence to the committee, but we have received no. But, of course, we want to ask the question again in connection with this bill. In the Danish People's Party we would very much like to vote in favour of the proposal to reinstate the handshake. It has always been a good idea to have it, and we would therefore ask for this proposal to be separated too, so that we have the opportunity to vote yes to it and no to other parts of the law. If the law is not broken up, we will have to vote no. It would be particularly sad for me, because one of my good friends, whose Danishness I certainly do not question, is on the law, and it seems really strange to have to vote against his citizenship. I therefore hope that we can get our amendments through so that we can divide up the law so that we can vote yes to something and no to something else. In this context, I would like to praise the fact that the draft law has been drafted in such a way that applicants from the countries from which they come have already been grouped; I think that is excellent. However, since we want to avoid Denmark being Islamised, we will not be able to vote in favour of the group from MEAPT countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109173959	We thank Mrs Krarup. There are no brief comments, and then we move on to Mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109174009	Thank you. The right of birth is a new area of rapporteur for me, so this is the first time I have been dealing here with the somewhat ritual treatment of the message of citizenship, and I really do not think that is so crazy to try, because it is a day of joy today. Let me start by congratulating all those people who are now getting citizenship, for whom they have worked hard, and perhaps also looking forward to, but also congratulations to all of us who already have Danish citizenship, because we can now rejoice to have 2,104 more top-motivated people in our community of Danish citizens. The way into the Danish community has been both long and demanding, for many of those on this list have worked hard to live up to some pretty tough demands that a majority here at Christiansborg has made, and with equal diligence and courage they have learned Danish, learned about our history and our culture and actively participated in society and passed the test of citizenship. Respect for that. Imagine that more than 2,000 people have spent the time and effort that it takes to become part of the Danish community, it is happy for all of us. I really understand that people want to be Danish citizens, because Denmark is a really nice country to be a citizen of. So let me finish where I started: From my side and from the side of the SF there must be a loud and clear and wholehearted congratulations to the many new Danish citizens. They have become part of a binding community and we are pleased to have them with us. The Socialist People's Party will, of course, vote in favour here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109174146	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109174150	I was not really going to ask the rapporteur a question, but the rapporteur says that everyone here is highly motivated. Now, we have asked the Minister a great many questions about having cases forwarded to us, but we have received some general summaries of how many have committed crime. I cannot go down precisely on the individual, but there are some who have been convicted of drugs; there are some who have been convicted of illegal residence; there are some who have been convicted of breaking Corona law; there are some who have been convicted of shoplifting; there are very many of them, it is popular heeling and breaches of public order. Does the rapporteur also think that these people are highly motivated to obtain Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109174221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109174223	I think that with the great work that lies in obtaining Danish citizenship, yes, you are highly motivated. This requires a desire for it; it is not something that just gets awarded, it takes a certain amount of effort. However, it is true that sometimes some people have some sort of criminal past in which they have committed a variety of problematic things that end up with citizenship. And there I am glad that, after all, one has a little bit of forgiveness; that it is possible, when one has endured one's punishment, to actually move on. I think it is a generally good value in our society, not only in terms of citizenship, but in all sorts of other contexts too, that if you have done something wrong and endured your punishment, then there is also an opportunity to move forward. However, with the new legislation that has been made now, which is very, very tough in our optics, it is quite limited what one might have done in one's past and still become a Danish citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109174317	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109174320	No, I'm afraid it's not very limited. We would have liked our proposal, our new agreement, to have gone much further, for example. that if serious crime had been committed at the level of fines, for example. three times, it would have the same effect as a conditional sentence, namely that you could not obtain Danish citizenship. Fortunately, a few of those who have committed these types of crime, as I mentioned before, have committed it repeatedly, but there are some who have repeatedly committed crime, for example. shoplifting, drugs, etc. Just to be sure: will the rapporteur also warmly congratulate them?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109174351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109174352	We congratulate all the people who have Danish citizenship today. After all, it is people who are not criminals who have endured their punishment and who have done some work to become Danish citizens. By the way, it is also a very small minority, as Mr. Marcus Knuth is talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109174409	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we can move on to Mrs Susan Kronborg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109174425	Thank you for the floor. Radical's printer just broke, so I'm gonna try this one. First of all, congratulations to those women and men and children who have met all the difficult requirements and have now become citizens. It is clear from the new citizenship agreement that the government undertakes to list the applicants in the future bill on citizenship in the light of the nationality of the applicants in the area groups: Nordic countries, other Western countries, MEAPT countries as well as Turkey and other non-western countries. In other words, this draft law contains separate sections listing citizenship areas. The information has been provided in earlier notices of nationality, but it is thus the very requirement for grouping that has been established in the agreement on citizenship. Now the big question is whether there will be an amendment on the division of the birth certificate and whether there will be a majority in the Folketing in order to vote down a split bill with the list of authorised applicants for citizenship coming from Muslim countries. That is clear from the nature of the Convention. 5. that the rules of a Contracting State relating to national law may not contain differences or include practices involving discrimination based on sex, religion, race, colour of skin, national or ethnic origin. The Ministry's lawyers themselves have also considered that the State may incur liability by dividing legislation on citizenship by country or region, and that if there is a majority voting against such a bill with MEAPT country applicants, then a claim for damages against Denmark will be possible. The Radical Left is not in favour of us in this way bothering taxpayers with having to pay compensation through the common fund, and we will certainly do our best to draw attention to the legal principles that should apply. In any case, congratulations to those who have actually been approved on the list of applicants for citizenship, and we naturally support the so-called 'birth certificate'.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109174655	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then we can go ahead in the series of speeches. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109174710	First of all, I would very much like to congratulate all those who gain citizenship from this proposal. That's incredibly good work. It has undoubtedly taken a great deal of effort from the people, and it is both a welcome welcome from the Enhedslisten and from our rapporteur Mr. Peder Hvelplund, who is working on these cases on a daily basis but cannot be here today. There is no doubt that it has been a very long and difficult process for many of you who have acquired citizenship. We in the Enhedslist see it as a very, very unreasonable system that people have to go through, but it is so nice that so many people have now got proper civil rights on equal terms with everyone else, and we of course support this bill that is before us, on the part of Enhedslisten. Many of the people who have acquired citizenship and are now receiving it are, after all, people who have spent at least ten years getting to where they can get citizenship. There are probably a lot of you who have been seeking that have already been entitled to have it for many years, but where these constant tightenings have also helped to prolong and complicate the process. So it is good that we have finally succeeded. The case is that a great many of the people who get Danish citizenship by law in this way have lived in Denmark all their lives, or at least for very, very many years, and that many of them have to work hard to obtain citizenship. Because, as many rapporteurs have said very clearly, citizenship is not something that hangs on the trees in Denmark or is particularly easily accessible. It's actually exactly the opposite. It is extremely difficult to become a citizen of Denmark, and from the Enhedslisten side we therefore believe that the rules that apply today, in order to obtain citizenship, are far too tight. We can see an advantage in the fact that people who live here; who have been here for a number of years; who work in Denmark; who contribute to society, actually also become full members of the Danish community, as you do when you become a citizen, and that it happens much faster and more systematically than it does today. This citizenship issue is an issue that has been extremely politicised in the Danish Parliament. It's not like it's in other countries at all. But we see exactly how this citizenship is perceived as such a noble gift and not as what we in Enhedslisten see it as, namely, a right acquired by living in Denmark for long enough time and by contributing to Denmark. In many of the other countries with which we are otherwise comparing ourselves, it is, of course, the case that citizenship is acquired through a completely transparent administrative procedure. So it is not some mysterious committee in the Folketing that sits and takes a stand on each case, because there are in fact some people who have an administrative background and deal with citizenship applications on the basis of a transparent set of rules. So that is not the case in Denmark. It is the Folketing that adopts it here, and it is various politicians in the committee who are more or less able to decide what people's fate should be, and we think that this is basically a huge legal problem, because it also means that people do not have an insight into why they are refused, because they have, for example, a problem of legal certainty. It is not possible to complain, and it is therefore not sensible in relation to our legal society that this is the way it works. And it is not at all appropriate in relation to our democracy if we are to be faced with larger and larger groups of people who live and live in Denmark and who are actually excluded from society as equal citizens. It is simply not right that we should not be able to have a passport as a child and that we should, for example, have a passport as a child. so later it will not be possible to go on a study trip with its educational institution and to vote for elections in which those politicians who have very, very much influence on one's everyday life are elected. That is simply not fair. That's the way we're going down: we see larger and larger groups of people being cut off from getting passports being cut off from getting this citizenship. That is also why, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, we want to make citizenship much easier. This does not mean that there should be no demands, but it means that it must be fair and transparent and that it must therefore be easier, especially for children, to have this citizenship. But in conclusion, after complaining about how the system works, I would like to congratulate all those of you who have citizenship in this bill, and of course we support it very warmly, and we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109175229	There are requests for short remarks. Sir. Morten Dahlin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109175236	Thank you. I would like to take this opportunity to ask a few questions about Enhedslisten's policy of citizenship in general. And now you can only ask one question, but I can try to do it in a cunning way and then bring two questions into one if the President does not interrupt me. Is it the policy of Enhedslisten that people who have committed rape should be able to become Danish citizens, and is it the policy of Enhedslisten that people who have been convicted of terrorism should be able to become Danish citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109175301	You have to ask all the questions you want, but there is only the time to answer as there is, so that is more like what it depends on. But you are welcome to ask more questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109175312	When I advocate that citizenship should be easier to obtain, for example, children born in Denmark; they must have the opportunity to be granted citizenship before they start school. This applies to children who have grown up in Denmark; they must be able to apply for citizenship before the age of 18. That is the kind of thing I am referring to. As far as the limit on serious crime is concerned, I have to admit that I simply fail to respond to it because it is not my rapporteur's area. But this is where I think there should be completely transparent and systematic rules. It should not therefore be up to a parliamentary committee to assess it. There we need to lay down legal requirements on what kind of crime they are, what kind of language they are, etc., and then you actually have to leave it to some, what to say, more administrative people who can sit and manage it here, so there is clarity about what the lines really are. Because that's one of the problems that is that it's extremely unclear for people how to deal with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109175416	Sir. Morten Dahlin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109175418	Thank you. Well, it's not unclear today. After all, there are rules, and if you live up to those rules, you come on to the bill, and then it is passed. It is fair that the rapporteur does not have this as his rapporteur's area, but one can then think what one wants about Enhedslisten's policy if the rapporteur cannot clearly answer whether rapists and terrorists should be able to become Danish citizens. Now the rapporteur says that the rapporteur does not know exactly where the limit should go, but could the rapporteur then guess whether it is the policy of Enhedslisten that people who are emptied of terrorism should be able to be rewarded with Danish citizenship afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109175450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109175454	No, it will probably fall into the category of such serious crime that it will then be difficult to obtain citizenship. I quite agree with that. But that doesn't change the fact that it's opaque what it's like. Well, we had a case earlier, where a friendly elderly gentleman had come to set his hedge on fire and had to call the fire department, and he had been fined for it, and it prevented him from obtaining citizenship for several years. We have heard of people who are afraid to be caught for driving without bicycle lights, because it can make them unable to obtain citizenship. And that's the kind of thing I'd like to clean up. And then I agree with the questioner that terrorism is probably on the other side.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109175530	Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109175533	I think it is a very dangerous policy that Enhedslisten has when they say that you should have the right to citizenship. It's pushing this migration that we see from poor countries to rich countries. It is clear that it may be a right in countries that would like to have a larger population that would like to bring people in as soon as possible. But an old nation like the Danish can't possibly survive if everyone gets the right to acquire citizenship in Denmark by just doing yours and dut and that. We will be wiped out within a few generations. We don't want to be Danes anymore. So I think it's a crazy and very, very scary thinking, which is deeply unreasonable, even though Enhedslisten says it's really, really reasonable. No, it is deeply unreasonable to give all the people of Africa the right to become Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109175628	That is not what the Enhedslisten is proposing, Mrs Krarup. What we are saying is that we need to have a more legal approach to it. This means that you can make some demands. I think we should do the same, it is also the policy of Enhedslisten. You can make some demands on languages, you can make some demands on people to have been here for a number of years and to be part of society. It makes sense to do so, and I fully agree that everyone does not have the right to have citizenship. But it is a right that you as a citizen get in this society, and if you earn that right by having been here, by having contributed to society, by being able to speak and so on, then you have the right to have that citizenship within the criteria that we have now jointly established. There is no reason why politicians should go in here and speak as a gift, because I think we all benefit from the fact that the people who live and live in Denmark are also full members of our society. This also means that I think there should be more control of the rules and that it should not be up to one's own personal political guts, who should have or should not have, like the Danish People's Party, for example. is exponent when you say that people who come from some countries are not allowed to have citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109175741	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109175744	But it is a political decision. And like I said before, it's like a marriage. You can't go and say, "I have the right to marry that person." You can never have that. But you can marry that person if that person wants to marry you. In the same way, you can become a Dane if Denmark would like to have you in the way that you are convinced that they have become Danish. It is a very, very long process and, of course, it should only be given in cases where one is sure that the person has become Danish. So this is not something for which we can draw up such completely bastant criteria. And that is only good; it is a defence of the Danish nation, and we must hope that it can continue to be so.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109175824	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109175825	It's like most of the laws and regulations we pass inside this shop or apologize, in the Danish Parliament that there are actually some criteria. I mean, when you, for example... They say who can get child support, they say they are these citizens, and they must be people who have children and so on. After all, we are not sitting here and finishing every child benefit application in this country. There we actually say: Fine, when you meet the requirements, you also have the right to have it. And in the same way with citizenship: it must not be possible to give it to everyone, of course, but if you meet the requirements, there must actually be transparency in who can get it and better control of it than there is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109175902	Sir. Marcus Knuth, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109175904	Thank you, President. Mrs Flyvholm says that she would like it not to be the Folketing that granted it by law, that it was not the Committee on the Rights of the Nation that could sit and add and remove names I wish we could add and remove far more names than we do, but we do so to a very, very limited extent. But now it is the constitution, the Danish constitution, that says that it is the Folketing that grants citizenship by law. So does Enhedslisten really want to change the constitution so that it is no longer the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109175928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109175929	Yeah, that's right. I think that the basic law can be modernised a little sometimes. Of course, it is by law that we must decide which criteria should be used. However, the fact that this has to be done in the way it does in a committee is of course deeply questionable in terms of legal certainty, because it makes it opaque for people when they have the opportunity to obtain citizenship, which means that people do not have the means of redress and all sorts of other things that they would normally have. So, yes, we basically believe that the way it is done is a wrong procedure and that there are some legal problems in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109180009	Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109180012	But we have a whole series of examples of people who have acquired Danish citizenship, who should never have gotten it. Just take the Levakovic family. Take some of the criminal clans out at Motalavej, where we are at least thinking that if we had actually been able to go a little deeper into the cases when it was awarded, we probably wouldn't have had to assign citizenship to these people because they were already if not full criminals, then petty criminals. Does the rapporteur not see that there is some sense in the fact that to some extent we think to a much greater extent we in the Parliament's Committee on the Rights of the Child can say that there is someone here who is a danger to the security of the country; here is a person who has committed a lot of crime, who should not have Danish citizenship anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109180046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109180046-2	It is clear that if there are people who are at risk of state security, for example, it is not sensible to give them citizenship and, of course, in a more administrative procedure there will also be security screenings of people. It makes sense to do so. But the fact that you have to sit and deal with every case does not make sense to me. This is the only area in all the work we do in this Parliament where you sit and deal with each case. I simply do not think it right to do so. Like the rapporteur, someone may have on the list he would have liked not to have obtained citizenship, there are certainly others out there who should have had it, but have received a refusal that they cannot do anything about.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109180126	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Marcus Knuth, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109180144	Thank you, sir. President. This debate every six months is simply one of my favourite debates, if you can put it that way. Because there is nothing more central here in Denmark than the granting of Danish citizenship. I am very pleased with the agreement we made with the Minister and with the Left and the Liberal Alliance a few months ago. It's a good deal. There are a lot of people on this bill to whom we wish to congratulate. They have truly acquired themselves in Denmark, our language, our values, and we are delighted about that. But an agreement like the one we have made is no guarantee that there can be very few broken vessels in between, and that is why we have asked the Minister a great many questions from our side. There are other parties who have that, and there we are in a new situation where the Minister, to the extent he can, will not answer questions; he will not pass on cases; he will not let us look at whether there are any stingy vessels that we can remove from the bill. There you are right inside the core of the constitution and in the work we do here in the Folketing. Because the Minister has the power to propose names to the committee and to say that there are some who he does not think should have citizenship anyway. It's happening all the time. The committee usually backs up. However, when the Minister does not want to service the committee and provide the information we are asking for, we cannot go in and say ourselves that we may also have some proposals for people who have committed serial crime at a slightly lower level, for example. or other things. Thus the Folketing cannot carry out its work. We think that is a real shame. Fortunately, however, the Minister has also provided us with some information from previous years. Now, of course, I have to be careful that this is confidential information about individuals, but I think I can paint an overall picture and say that there are a large number of people on this bill who have committed repeated crime at a level below prison. I mentioned earlier: convictions for drugs, convictions for illegal residence, convictions for violating Corona law, shoplifting, it has become really, really popular, there are at least many who have been convicted of it, and so it is not just a Snickers, it is organised crime at a higher level, heeling, breaches of public order, etc. That is why we so terribly want to say: can we not just see some of them here in committee so that we can take a position here in the Folketing in confidence in the committee on whether these people should still have citizenship? The Minister will not help us with that. In fact, this does not mean that the Committee on the Rights of the Child is being given any authority here in the Danish Parliament. That is not how I think it was meant when the constitution was written, yes, over 150 years ago. It means de facto that one wants the Folketing to vote blindly when we come to the third reading, and we think that is really a pity. There are different things we could do. We could follow Mette Frederiksen's advice and just say, "Live with it." Vote as we say, without knowing what you really are voting on. Or we can try to reason with the Minister, and that is what we really want to do. This isn't an attempt to start some war with the minister. It is an attempt to get the Minister to cooperate with the Parliamentary Committee on the Rights of the Birth. So we are about to table a motion for a resolution requiring the Minister to provide the information requested by the committee. We would think that is a minimum when it comes to such an important area as the area of citizenship. And, of course, we are going to press for the committee to go in to some extent or other, just as the Minister himself has the power to say that there are some people here whom we are going to propose should not be on the bill. Until that work is done, we cannot say what we are voting on this bill when we come to the third reading. In the meantime, we are asking and hoping that the Minister will cooperate with the Folketing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109180526	There is a brief comment on Mrs Susan Kronborg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109180529	Thank you very much. I would like to know whether it is Conservatives' view that there should be a division into area groups, as described in the new citizenship agreement concluded here before the summer holidays. And do you intend to vote in favour of splitting the bill into different legislative proposals with area groups?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109180550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109180551	But now it was not we who asked for that part of the agreement, but we are part of the circle that adopted it. And if it is the case that there should be a request for division, then we must take a look at it. Generally speaking, we are in favour of the division of legislative proposals, just as we supported the Radical Left's desire for a division into the area of citizenship of L 42 which we supported on the Radicals. So if it is the case that others have proposals for divisions, then we will look at it and then make a decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109180617	Susan Kronborg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109180618	I thank you very much for the support for splitting up the second legislative proposal, which Mr. Marcus Knuth mentioned. I would also like to ask whether Conservatives are going to vote in favour of a separate bill containing authorised citizenship applicants from MEAPT countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109180640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109180641	Well, that has not happened yet, which is why it is a little difficult to take a position, not least, as I am saying, since we cannot at this stage take a final position on the overall legislative proposal that we are facing right now. This depends on the process that will take place in the coming months with the Minister. If it is the case that we can get just about constructive cooperation up and running with the Minister, then we will try to take a positive view of that, but that is certainly not where we are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109180705	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109180715	The bill we are discussing today can destroy even the best mood. It is in fact today that we are dealing with the politically determined mass allocation of Danish citizenship. It is a big mix of people where a lot of people deserve it and a lot should never have it. Unfortunately, there is widespread political laziness when it comes to the granting of citizenship. In the spirit of the constitution, we should, of course, as the Committee on the Rights of the Child, speak to each individual applicant. Here, of course, those from the Muslim countries that we know are over-represented in crime statistics must be chosen from. You have to meet the same strict criteria that are in the circular today, but in addition, the best qualified should come to an interview. This would give us the best opportunity to select the good people who actually deserve to become Danish citizens. This would also naturally reduce the number to around 200-300 per year. years. Unfortunately, that is not the case today. Here, citizenship is granted in a turn with blindfolds and in a large pile of weddings. It's really sad. We also regularly see people being removed from the bill. I asked you that question. For people who are at risk for Denmark, should not just be excluded from citizenship forever, by the way, if it stood for New Citizens? No, people who are at risk for Denmark and the Danes should not be in Denmark at all. And more interesting, then, is the answer to how many of these Trojan horses are walking around among us. People who say that they are integrated, but who run fifth column business and undermine Denmark. In New Citizens we actually believe that the Danes have a right to know. Since the adoption of the landscaping law in 1983, 250,412 citizenships have been granted. Many of them are for people who should never have had it, but unfortunately this bill continues. Here 2,104 persons and 710 persons are granted citizenship, and together it is 253,226 persons. In addition, citizenship comes to the children of foreigners, who are not included in the figures of Statistics Denmark. This is crazy! The parties in this Chamber who are going to vote in favour of this bill need to know that almost one in four who were convicted of rape in Denmark by 2020 were foreign citizens, which is a strong over-representation. MENAPT women and descendants account for 2%. of the population of working age, but in the statistics of persons who have received cash benefits without interruption for 10 years or more, they represent 20 per cent. Although non-Western descendants with Danish citizenship are only 2.8%. of the population, they account for 25.3% of the population. by all registered gang members in 2020. Male nonwestern descendants commit almost one and a half times more crime than the average of all men in the population. And I could go on. In this bill we are now discussing, there are as many as 522 people from the so-called MENAPT countries; from the Muslim countries with which we have had the worst experience, there are 90 from Turkey, 77 from Pakistan, 73 from Iraq, 51 from Afghanistan, 36 from Iran, 51 from Somalia, 8 from Morocco, 10 from Syria, 6 from Lebanon, 108 are stateless. So, unfortunately, the slipway presupposes. And it is a large proportion of the foreigners with whom we have poor experience, who have gained and continue to gain Danish citizenship. In New Citizens we do not believe that Danish citizenship should be given to immigrants and descendants from Muslim countries where we know that immigrants and their descendants commit crime much more often than Danes when they come here. We do not believe that Danish citizenship should be granted frivolously, but with care and to many fewer people than today only to the few who really deserve it. We also believe that if you commit crime and get an unconditional sentence of liberty, you should be able to be deprived of your citizenship. This is an important part of the task that we have undertaken, namely to resolve foreign policy from the bottom up. And it is our duty and our responsibility to ensure that Denmark is also Danish in 100 years' time. We owe this to our children and our grandchildren, which is why we are, of course, voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109181158	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And since I do not see any more rapporteurs who have asked to speak, it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109181221	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for today's debate on the draft law. As I also mentioned in connection with the examination of the legislative proposal in the spring, I welcome the new citizenship agreement on which we agreed before the summer holiday, where we among other things. In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work. As we also agreed in connection with the recent agreement on citizenship, the bill is now divided into the Nordic countries, other Western countries, stateless persons, MENAP countries and Turkey and other non-western countries. With this division, we have implemented another element of the citizenship agreement. I am also pleased that the health authorities no longer advise against handshakes and that, therefore, with the bill, we can reinstate the requirement for handshakes by participating in a ceremony. On this bill, 1,873 people have been admitted to a constitutional ceremony for the exchange of handshakes. The requirement will also apply to applicants who have been admitted to a law on citizenship with a claim to participate in a constitutional ceremony in the last two years and who have not yet participated in a ceremony. It is something special, as I have already said here from the platform, when Danish citizenship is granted. It is a declaration of confidence from Danish society, and that is why I think it is reasonable that some demands should be made on those who want to become Danish citizens. The persons appearing on this bill meet the many requirements laid down by a majority of the Folketing or they have been granted an exemption from the Parliament's Committee on the Rights of Citizens. We hope that all participants in the municipal constitutional ceremonies will have a very good day and that they, like the other applicants who have been included in the bill, will be happy and proud fellow citizens, citizens who take part in Denmark and protect the society in which they have lived for some years now. In those words, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for a good debate. I now look forward to the further examination of the bill here in the Folketing and, of course, I think it is appropriate to congratulate the 2,104 people and the 710 people who have been included in this bill. I hope that they will be very happy with their citizenship when they get this far.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109181450	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109181451	Thank you. The Minister and I have had many dialogues on that process and on the answers in committee, etc. So I'm actually gonna leave that alone. I've told you what I think about it. However, legislation is always an ongoing process. Now we have come up with a tightening up of the previous agreement, which is very good, but the list here also shows what the field looks like now. One of the things that we have seen is that there are some who have committed crime, but who still stand to gain citizenship, among other things. Someone who committed shoplifting. Now I can read here that this autumn the government will sharpen the penalty for shoplifting, because it is something you take very seriously. So it's really just a call to the minister • I don't need an answer • about when the government looks at it, that you then also look at introducing a waiting period at shoplifting above a certain level, because there isn't. Because I think that's something business is having a very, very difficult time with. At least it's one of the patterns that I still see gone is left after we've made the tightening up.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109181554	Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109181555	Just briefly: it is true that we have tightened the rules for obtaining citizenship so that more people who commit serious crime cannot obtain citizenship unless they are granted a derogation from the Parliament's Committee on the Rights of the Child. Of course, this is not about all crime; there is a small limit. And I really think that we have found a very good balance in the agreement that has been reached. We do not have any immediate plans to change that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109181623	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109181625	After all, I had hoped that the Minister would not respond so decisively, because we think that there are some very constructive proposals that we will make. Among other things: It's not just if you steal a Snickers or something, but it is if people go in and steal goods from Danish shop owners over and over again. That's too bad. It's at the moment. At least you have to get to a very high level before you hit a waiting period. But let us talk when we make the proposal to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109181652	Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109181653	Again, just briefly: We haven't written into the agreement whether it's shoplifting or it's bicycle theft. But we have written that it is, in relation to whether it is certain punishments you get. And it is clear that if the penal code is amended, so that the penalty for committing shoplifting is tightened up, then everything else will also mean that more of those who commit shoplifting will be able to get above that threshold and thus be subject to the provisions we have in the agreement on citizenship. In this way, there is, of course, a link between the changes in the criminal code that I know the Minister of Justice is coming with, and the rules that we are working with here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109181730	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109181732	Thank you so much. I just have one practical question about this handshake when you're going to have citizenship. This is not something that we on the Enhedslisten have ever thought was such a very clever idea. But now, in relation to the Corona situation, I would like to say that we are not, unfortunately, where Corona has been knocked down yet. In fact, there is still increasing infection, and I am actually quite concerned about what that will mean. So, if you're supposed to resume this, aren't some people going to be delayed in getting their citizenship? So it's just to hear, what does the minister think about it? I guess it's not fair that people are being delayed in their process because you're actually trying to keep good and safe hand hygiene in these times. That's probably very wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109181819	Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109181821	I fully understand the question and am, in fact, a little concerned about what is going to happen this winter. Last winter, we decided to suspend the handshake. I also said myself at the time that when the health authorities once again remove their recommendations not to shake hands, that will also be reflected in the legislative proposals that will be submitted to the Folketing, and that is why this draft law also shows this. But anyone who can see the infection figures can see which way it is going. I hope that we will not make it all the way to where we again see some recommendations from the Danish Health Service not to give hugs and not shake hands and things like that. However, if we get there, it will remain the position of the government that we should then follow the recommendation of the health authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109181902	Thank you. And there are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109181925	Before we start the next debate, which is about a statement, we have some practical measures to take. The rapporteurs must get up and sit in the front rows so that we can take a short break. Then the practical measures are in place, and that means that we can start with the statement. The debate is open. Sir. Mogens Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109182143	Thank you for the floor and, of course, thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his statement to the Folketing. As you know, the work on formulating a new common Arctic strategy for Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands is in full swing. This is a great and important piece of work, because across the Kingdom community we must be able to act on the basis of a clear common platform for our approach to the Arctic. And I am quite sure that the Minister will put some words on that process. In the meantime, as new rapporteur on defence, I welcome this opportunity to discuss the current state of international Arctic cooperation and, of course, what has happened in the past year. Like international cooperation, cooperation around the Arctic has, of course, been very much challenged by the pandemic in the past year, but nevertheless I think that many good results have been achieved for cooperation. In my view, this applies first and foremost to the broad political agreement on an Arctic Capacity Package of 1.5 billion. kr., which was concluded back in February in close dialogue between Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands. Fortunately, we agree that the Kingdom of Denmark has a special security and defence policy responsibility in the Arctic and the North Atlantic. This framework agreement will invest massively in high-tech unmanned systems and capabilities, including satellite and airspace monitoring, sovereignty enforcement and enhanced communication lines. Thus, the ability of the defence to monitor activities and navigate the Arctic is significantly strengthened, and this is needed. At the same time, it has been crucial for us that the strengthened efforts in the Arctic should give both a military but also a civilian benefit. After all, our cooperation on the Arctic is also about more than just security policy. For this reason, the capacity package must include, inter alia: strengthen defence rescue operations, preparedness tasks, fisheries control, research and surveillance in relation to climate and environment and much more. The new investments will create local jobs and growth in Greenland and the Faroe Islands. So all in all, I think there has been a very good agreement which I think we all have reason to welcome and which I believe will also influence developments in the Arctic in the direction that we all want. After all, the Arctic Council is 25 years old here in 2021, and it remains our most important Arctic Cooperation Forum. In May, a ministerial meeting was held in Reykjavik, where all the Foreign Ministers of the Arctic States took part and the Presidency was transferred from Iceland to Russia. An ambitious ministerial declaration and a strategy were adopted which demonstrates good support for cooperation and also provides a very good basis for a strengthened dialogue in the Arctic Council in the years to come. Our starting point for Arctic cooperation is, of course, that we want to ensure low-voltage in the Arctic in accordance with the Ilulissat Declaration, but we must not be naive either. As you know, we see a growing geopolitical interest in the region, which is why it is more important than ever that we stand together on our common values and our common interests in the Arctic. This applies both across the Kingdom community, but also across the Atlantic. There is no doubt that the United States has strengthened its commitment to the Arctic over a number of years, and we saw this most recently when Foreign Minister Antony Blinken prioritized visiting Denmark and Greenland in May, relatively early after the accession of the Biden administration. This is not least evidence of the growing geopolitical interest in the Arctic region. On the Danish side, we welcome the increased American commitment, for the United States is undoubtedly the kingdom's most important security ally, even when it comes to the Arctic. There must never be any doubt about that. At the same time, it is crucial for us that Greenland and the Faroe Islands are more involved in the foreign, defence and security policy issues surrounding the Arctic which concern them. This is precisely why the Foreign Minister has recently invited Greenland and the Faroe Islands to the meetings with both the former and the present American Foreign Minister. Another very important step in closer cooperation in the Arctic community was the Prime Minister's meeting with the Home Rule President of the Faroe Islands and the President of the Naalaksuisut at Marienborg in June. Here it was decided that a new Foreign, Security and Defence Policy Contact Committee should be set up at the highest level. At the same time, it was agreed that Greenland will have a more visible role in the future. At the same time, Greenland was given a more central role in the Arctic Council, where in future they will speak first and sign the ministerial declarations on behalf of the Kingdom. I think that's quite natural. There is no doubt that we are living in a time of growing complex and changing threat picture, not least in the Arctic. It places new demands on cooperation in the Kingdom Community, where involvement and dialogue are more important than ever before. We must show mutual respect and trust towards each other. Together, by uniting our shared values and interests in the Arctic, we will have a much stronger common voice for the benefit of sustainable development in the region. We must remember that the geopolitical development of the Arctic is primarily due to climate change. It is one of the most climate change-vulnerable areas on the planet. Temperature rises almost three times faster than in the rest of the world. The Arctic ice, snow and permafrost quickly fade before our eyes. There is no doubt that global warming puts the environment and biodiversity under pressure and that climate change involves dramatic changes for the Arctic peoples. This requires even closer and stronger cooperation across the Kingdom community, not least in the field of research. As I said, Arctic cooperation is not just about security policy. Our common goal is a sustainable future for the entire Arctic. This is true in relation to the climate, the environment, the economy and social development. Together we, Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands, must strengthen Arctic cooperation and pursue our common democratic values such as dialogue, trust, equality and rule-based cooperation. When those very values come under external pressure, we must move closer together to resist. We must be proactive and take care of developments so that others do not run over us. Together, we must influence international Arctic cooperation towards our common goal of sustainability. I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183025	There are brief comments. It's first, sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183030	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur is old Minister for Fisheries, and he said in his speech that the Arctic Capacity Package of 1.5 billion. kr. e.g. should be used for strengthened fisheries control. Can the rapporteur clarify this a little? How can the investments that are being made now be used in connection with fisheries control?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183056	It is clear that some of the tasks, such as: solved by the defense in the Arctic, also includes assistance for fisheries control. One of the possibilities that lies with the additional resources that we get with the capacity package is that you can thus strengthen the task if it is a desire of the parties in the Kingdom Community. So, quite specifically, resources can be given priority in order to do this better.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183132	Will Mr. Sjúrður Skaale have the floor? No. Then it's Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183132-2	Thanks for the speech. And congratulations on the new rapporteurship - we look forward to good cooperation. I would like to make a brief comment on the Arctic Capacity Package. I believe that we will have to find a solution so that we can comply with the whole package. It just needs to be a comment from here. However, it is also the case that IA wants to participate in the defence settlement, and that is where the rapporteur is most likely to sit. So I would like to know whether this is something that the Social Democratic Party supports, that is to say that we are allowed to take part in the big conciliation not only in a corner of it, but in the quite large conciliation • because it has been a wish from day one, at least from this rapporteur came to parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183214-2	I would say that it is incredibly nice and important for everyone to take an interest in what priorities we should set in the field of defence, including with a future defence settlement, and also with regard to the Arctic area. However, I would say that it is too early for us to navigate, as it were, in relation to who will then be included in the agreement, but we look positively at all interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183245	Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183246	Thank you to the rapporteur. One can say that the Arctic Capacity Package was really an example of how it should not be done, and it was precisely that Greenland was not sitting with that it was not coordinated and that the broad anchoring in Greenland society was not secured. We could have helped to ensure that, and that is one of the advantages of having us here. And at the same time, it can be said that the Arctic is something that is more and more full of a quarter of the negotiations that are in the area, so it makes sense. What does the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183329	As I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, the government and the Social Democrats are deeply concerned that we will have stronger cooperation between the different countries of the Commonwealth, including with regard to defence policy cooperation. So there too we think it is important that we involve each other more closely. And I agree with the rapporteur that, of course, it is also important for the wishes of Greenland and the Faroe Islands to come forward and be involved in the work that needs to be done in connection with a new defence settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183407	Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183410	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech; that was very good. We also made a great deal of mention of involvement and dialogue as one of the most important things, and I also believe that with our cooperation with the Social Democratic Party it has been clear that once Greenland has come forward with its positions, it has been listened to. On the other hand, there is a point where Siumut and IA are very much in agreement, because all parties agree on this in Greenland. The Arctic Capacity Package could have been improved. I was also of the understanding, as rapporteur for Siumut, that there was close dialogue between Naala Suisut and Inatsisartut on this subject. But it was a great surprise to all parties in Greenland and Naalaksuisut at all, how quickly this agreement was suddenly made, and how incredibly they had also taken these discussions with Greenland. I think we can do better some other time. So clear support for the fact that we can easily have some more discussions, including among Greenlandic MPs, if we cannot find a solution to this together.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183521	Of course, I am listening to what is being said. Now I am a new rapporteur and was not in the process, but I think we must take on board the comments that are being made here about how we could better have had a slightly engaging process also about the Arctic capacity package. So it is a learning that we must take into the future, and therefore I also stress that of course I think it is important that we also have the opportunity from Greenland and the Faroe Islands to come forward with our wishes in relation to the elements of a future defence settlement in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183602	Then we move on to Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183609	We saw at the NATO summit six months ago that NATO, for the first time, referred to the high north, but that is the same thing as the Arctic, one might say in this context. We also saw how Stoltenberg, Secretary-General of NATO, visited the Nordic Council last week and also talked a lot about NATO's role, at least in the North Atlantic, and some of these things. And it seems to me that there is a very great risk that there will be an increase in tension and conflict levels in the Arctic region too, if NATO comes in and plays a role here, and that is where I think it is really important that we agree to try and keep the level of conflict down and keep the real low-voltage. This probably also means that NATO does not have much to do with having a role. So I would really like to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur how we look at this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183712	I think we all agree in this way that it is important to maintain low-voltage in the Arctic, and we must contribute to this in all the ways we can. And I think it is natural that NATO also deals with the Arctic, of course, because that is part of the overall picture. But we do have members of NATO, which is part of Arctic cooperation and, moreover, also of the Arctic Council, and that is why I think it is natural that the interests of NATO, too, can be taken care of by those countries which are themselves geographically located in the Arctic region.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183758	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183800	Well, that's exactly what I think there is a very, very delicate balance in, i.e. that the countries of Denmark or the United States, or whoever it is, carry out, you might say, own interests there. That is understandable, but precisely when NATO comes in and has an independent role, I think we can risk dangerous developments. And I would just like to know whether I understand that the rapporteur actually agrees that NATO should not have too much of an independent role here, but that it must be up to the individual countries to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183837	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183838	Well, as I said, it is natural that NATO should also be interested in the Arctic area and that part of the overall picture with regard to security policy, which also takes place through the Arctic. However, as I also said, I find it quite natural that the way in which NATO is represented and acts primarily in the Arctic region is through the Member States that are actually in the region.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183911	Sir. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183912	How does the rapporteur assess the increasing interest of the Americans in Greenland? How much should one believe that this is solely due to a newfound interest in Greenlandic culture and trade and that one has a huge need to grant scholarships so that they can continue to study in the United States? What does the rapporteur think is behind the idea of perhaps initially wanting a small corner at the University of Nuuk? Can it have anything to do with the desire for increased armament and increased presence in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109183947	I am, in effect, pleased that the United States is increasingly developing its commitment to Greenland. This is something that Denmark has been working on. So I think it is positive for Greenland and for the whole area that resources are being allocated in the United States to Greenland. I do not believe that this is happening at the expense of Denmark or creating new blubbers. I see it as a natural part of the new security policy dimension and dynamics that are in the region. This is something on which we, together with Greenland, are in close dialogue with the United States. So I see it as a positive development.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109184041	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109184042	The rapporteur believes that there ain't no such thing as a free lunch. Perhaps there is when it comes to Greenland or is it perhaps not closer to what the acting Ambassador of the United States, Stuart Dwyer, has said, namely that he can already say that they want an increased military presence and more exercises between the United States and Denmark? After all, even our own Secretary of Defense has confirmed that the Americans want more logistical support points. So I guess these things aren't connected. Or is it not naive that the rapporteur himself used in his speech that, if you believe that there are free meals, you do not believe that there is a clear objective in relation to the Americans at least?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109184121	I could hear that, sir. Karsten Hønge finally translated the English expression in his brief remark. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109184127	Well, that's perfectly clear. Of course, the United States also has security policy interests in the Arctic region. But the United States also has environmental and climate interests, and fortunately, after Biden has arrived, they have increased in relation to how things develop in the Arctic and they also have research interests. So I see it as a broad interest that the Americans show for Greenland. I think we should accept this, and this should be done in close cooperation between Denmark, Greenland and the United States.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109184206	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we can welcome the next rapporteur. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109184224	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Minister for the statement. As the previous rapporteur also said, this is usually a debriefing in relation to the Kingdom's Arctic strategy. Unfortunately, the last one expired as far back as 2020, when we should have adopted a new one as well. Now we are without a strategy, and since elections were only held in Greenland in the spring of 2021, at least the Minister cannot blame that fact for the first part of the delay. That is why I would like to start by calling on the Minister to pull on the work clothes so that we can have a new strategy that we can stand together in the Kingdom Community. We need that because there's a lot going on in the world around us. Especially in the Arctic, things are going really fast. If the Minister needs help or inspiration for the strategy, then we would be happy to do so, also in view of the fact that the involvement of the Danish Parliament and the parliament in the Faroe Islands and Greenland was taking place a long time ago. In the Left, we believe that strong international cooperation in the Arctic is essential in an uncertain world. The Arctic Council is a central body to ensure this cooperation. Cooperation in the Arctic must be a key priority in Danish foreign policy, as Arctic security policy is crucial for the kingdom, and because through our participation in the Arctic Council we have a unique opportunity to influence developments in a geographically very large part of the world in relation to, among other things. addressing climate change and environmental challenges. Therefore, it is also very good to read in the report that the work of the Arctic Council is a priority of the government, so thank you for that. Interest in the Arctic region is increasing. This is due, among other things, to: climate change and increased power rivalry. Heating in the Arctic is happening faster than anywhere else on the globe, and the sea ice spread continues to decrease. In the statement we can read that the warming of the Arctic goes as much as three times faster than in the rest of the world. This is so disturbing and underlines why we need action. In addition to putting turbo on the green transition, we also believe that we should invest heavily in research in the Arctic areas, including climate change, which is fortunately reflected in the reporting, among other things. through investment in a new research ship. Climate change is changing the economic potential of the region and has geopolitical implications. Among other things, it can be done. As a result, conflicts between non-Arctic major powers can also occur in the Arctic. It is crucial that Denmark addresses the geopolitical development and the challenges it brings. One of these challenges is Denmark's and the other states' objective of low voltage. The increased activity in the area makes it necessary for the Kingdom of Denmark to increase its readiness and our overview of what is going on in the region. We do not believe that this is contrary to the ambition of low-voltage. If Denmark does not know what is going on, among other things. in East Greenland, and if we do not enforce our sovereignty, we run the risk, for example, that we will not be able to do so. The United States itself takes that task upon itself. It will be seen by Russia as far less legitimate and could lead to a dangerous direct confrontation between Russia and the United States. Precisely to avoid tension, it has also been a focus for the Left in the context of negotiations on the Arctic defence package that the key focus should be precisely monitoring and signal pick-up. The changes and increased activity in the Arctic require closer cooperation and closer coordination within the Kingdom Community. Therefore, we very much support the initiatives for a more equal and more frequent dialogue between Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark. We also support Greenland's more prominent role in the Arctic Council. In addition, we would also very much like to work towards a closer and more formalised dialogue between the parliaments of the three countries. We have heard this in the past from some of the questioners, namely our Greenlandic members, is something that is being asked for. So I very much hope that this is a request that the government will also look into whether we can go further. We also experienced this when we were with the Greenland Committee earlier this year, namely that there is a great need for us to come closer together to coordinate legislation. Another new thing this year is that the European Union has also created an Arctic strategy. You can always discuss the content. I know that in the Arctic in particular there are some reservations about the strategy, but we welcome it, as it is extremely important that the European Union should also address the growing importance of the region and the action of other great powers in the region. For example: We believe that it is obvious that the EU is dealing with the possibilities of investing in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands. In Greenland, for example, it is. in relation to the possibilities of creating greater security of supply for access to rare earths. It is strange that it is China and the United States that are the very dominant players in looking at the opportunities for this kind of thing in Greenland, and not the European Union, which, after all, is also a very, very integrated part of the Kingdom community, and which, of course, also supports funding in Greenland today. Another thing that we think is important is that the European Union is more committed to free trade agreements with Greenland and the Faroe Islands. It may be a little outside the area, but I think that, when the EU speaks of Arctic strategy, they simply cannot escape the desire for better trading conditions for Greenland and the Faroe Islands. This is absolutely essential to ensure that the EU is also a strong player in the future in relation to the Kingdom Community and in relation to Greenland and the Faroe Islands. Finally, there is the increased American activity here too from other countries in the area, and we believe that this should lead to us sitting down and having an analysis of whether there is a need for increased involvement also within the kingdom in relation to presence in Greenland in particular, where the Americans, for example. is very much present. We think that we need to talk about the real offers, for example. is heavily enough staffed to be able to also be present and have sufficient dialogue with Greenlandic society. So this is another dialogue that we hope we will also be able to take in the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109184839	There are brief comments. First, it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109184843	Thank you to the rapporteur for a good speech and also thank you for the good cooperation. It is such that Greenland would like to make its own foreign policy strategy or Arctic strategy call it what you want, I almost had to say, and I also know that the Faroe Islands would like to do so. And I also think that we should respect and have the patience to wait for them to come up with a common strategy. In Greenland, our foreign policy strategy from 2011 is many, many years ago, and a lot of things have happened in the meantime. So it is certainly a huge desire on our part to make our own strategy. However, I would like to agree with the rapporteur that it is a long time since we have been involved by the Folketing and that it is a long time since we have had the debate and that we have perhaps also lacked this particular debate to find out what the priorities are for each party. So the rapporteur has the next few minutes to say very briefly what the priorities of the Left will be in relation to the Arctic strategy of the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109184937	Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109184938	Well, I actually think that my speech has been a long list of what we think should be given priority. Research, but also increased presence and better overview of what is going on in the area, the climate must be absolutely central, and increased diplomatic engagement and knowledge in relation to the Arctic and the Kingdom community we think is really central. These are areas that we need to address. And then there is no doubt that defence, cyber and other things are going to fill very much in the coming years and should also follow a strategy. I think it is very good that you have a desire from Greenland and the Faroe Islands to make your own Arctic strategy. I just still think that there must not be too long when we are in a vacuum where the kingdom does not have a strategy. I respect this wish, and it could also be that the previous Greenlandic Government had had that wish. You can't keep pushing it while waiting for local Arctic strategies for Greenland and the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109185048	Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109185049	Thank you very much. I agree with the rapporteur that it is urgent both for Greenland to have its own strategy and for us to have a common Arctic strategy. I'd like to ask you a few questions about this, among other things. research. How can we strengthen research, because this is really a very good area? Well, science diplomacy is quite, quite obvious in terms of foreign policy. We know that there are 300 American scientists who come to Greenland every year. It's a number that's higher than what I thought at least. So how can we also strengthen that cooperation specifically in relation to research?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109185119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109185120	Well, there is now, for example. in the Finance Act, this hub that has been invested in. After all, there is some potential to coordinate and collect and increase the level of knowledge about what the possibilities are for research in Greenland. Now, with the OSCE delegation, we were on a trip to Svalbard, and for me it was strange to see how much activity there is on Svalbard and how it has been done here in Norway. So, I think there is a huge potential for creating a knowledge environment in Greenland in relation to climate research and research in the Arctic, where we are far behind and much less targeted than you are in Greenland. It is, of course, about both means, but also a strategy for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109185159	Then it's Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109185202	Thank you. First of all, let me sign up to the rapporteur from the Green Left, because we have a really good cooperation and for the great commitment that is also being experienced by the rapporteur from the Green Left in the Greenland Committee and other committees. I would then like to agree that we need a kind of parliamentary structure which will make it formalised for the Members of Greenland and the Folketing in one way or another. This is also one of the things Siumut will discuss when we come in the next session in Inatsisartut to discuss whether or not we should make a parliamentary council. I would like to ask whether the Left has any thoughts about whether it could be such a parliamentary council, or whether you have any other thoughts about it. A little bit was also said about whether the rich offer could be used a little more in cooperation between countries. I also wonder whether we should not be able to do something in relation to more understanding of each other, both for Danes who go up to Greenland, but perhaps also a little help Greenlanders who go to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109185312	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109185313	The question may be whether we should call it a parliamentary council or something else, but surely we need to get closer and have a more formalised contact. As I said, when we were in Greenland, we saw that there is simply not enough knowledge on both our side and that of Greenland's parliamentarians about where the surfaces are and how we can make each other better by working together, and I believe that the fact of constantly having a little closer knowledge and being a little closer to each other will be good for all parties. A parliamentary council that you have talked about, or the structure that the rapporteur has mentioned, seems reasonable to me. It could be something else. There has been talk about whether it should be something in the area of Foreign Policy Name where you met regularly or what it was. Yes, we are very open to the constructions, but we are very much in agreement with the problem. We have not quite determined which model it should be, so we are open to all inputs.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109185407	Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109185408	Thank you for your answer. In fact, I would also like to say a little about what was said about us having to be strong on the outside. Of course, I also think that no one disagrees with that. But I also think it is important to think about what a democracy is like. After all, it is said that democracy is the best we have, even though democracy is not exactly one of the best that exists, if you can put it that way. But it is also because it takes a long time in a democracy. I am also thinking of the Arctic strategy and of the fact that we can also disagree on some points. But that doesn't mean we split up if you can put it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109185450	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109185451	Our position is that the more we can agree on • we agree to stand together on • the better. For example, we have also had this talk about red lines in relation to what is actually security policy and what is foreign policy. We need to talk about what it is. Our position is that the more we can agree on an Arctic strategy, the stronger we face abroad, and the more advantage we get from the construction of the Kingdom Community. That is why my fear is a bit that if we do three Arctic strategies and we do not think about and we are not good at coordinating, we will be too easy to play off against each other. Therefore, I also hope that there is a close dialogue about these three different Arctic strategies, if that is what you want to do in Greenland and the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109185535	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109185536	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. After all, the rapporteur regretted that there was no Arctic strategy which the Kingdom has jointly. But the last one went out more than a year ago. Can the rapporteur from his chair see some areas or some cases in which, for example, there are Should be such a big disagreement between Greenland and Denmark that an agreement on a strategy cannot be reached? And what would that be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109185605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109185606	I think we should be able to make ourselves comfortable immediately. It can be said that if we had now had a process of an Arctic strategy in good time, it might have been easier to create an Arctic capacity package, where, for example, there would have been an Arctic capacity package. not also by a new government in Greenland is a feeling that there is no ownership. We were assured by the Minister for Defence that there was involvement at government level, but if we had now had a process before that had been completed, where the whole parliament had also been involved, and there had been agreement in the direction of an Arctic strategy, then perhaps the process here would have been more estimates and less problematic. So, no, I don't really think there's anything we can't talk about. I just think that the fact that you get written down where you actually agree can sometimes make the process afterwards, when you have to move on some things, become much, much easier and much more harmonious when you like to take it ad hoc and then from tue to tue agree that it is the right thing to do and the right order to use the money. I think that the fact that this process has been shot has had some negative consequences. But no, I don't see those big, big things that separate us.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109185714	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109185716	Thank you. The rapporteur also welcomed the fact that the European Commission has presented a proposal for such a joint communication, I believe, to an Arctic strategy, an EU strategy, and in the presentation for a debate on a strategy it says that we should work towards a multilateral agreement to ban the extraction of coal, oil and gas in the Arctic. What is the rapporteur's position on this proposal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109185744	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109185745	I do not think it is the most elegant wording in that strategy. It is also something that we think the Arctic states, in other words Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Iceland, should decide for themselves. There is no doubt that it is fine that the EU has a focus on the environment, climate and sustainability, but there we may think that it is to step a little too far into some things that could have been dealt with in a different way, I think. However, the fact that the European Union is dealing with a neighbourhood which other great powers are very interested in is a positive thing to me. Then we can always discuss whether we should try to push it in a slightly different direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109185826	Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109185829	Thank you so much for your speech. This is the question of Arctic research to which I would like to return. Now I have been sitting for a few years in a row as a research rapporteur and also sitting in the research negotiations, and in my opinion it is far too small a sum for Arctic research. With regard to the hub mentioned by the rapporteur, we are talking about 4-5 million. kr. or something like that, it's a pretty small amount. We were supposed to be fighting this year to get 2 million. kr. to some research at the University of Greenland, which we got started last year. We're down in some pretty small amounts. I think there is enormous potential in getting up in a much larger volume in this area, and I hear that the Left would like to do so too, but I think that it requires that we are also ready to give priority to some funds from other areas and to make it more strategic, so that it is not just taken from the research area. So the question is whether the Left can also see that some money from defence, foreign affairs or other needs to be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109185934	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109185935	There is no doubt that we would like to give priority to Arctic and Arctic research, and we think it will fill more because climate change is going to hit the Arctic really hard. It's an area where there's going to be much more sailing, so it's also other things that you need to get some more knowledge about we're in the process of sea surveying and other things. But here again I think that an Arctic strategy had been a good thing, and also that it had been an Arctic strategy that was widely owned in the Folketing, in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands. This could have helped to set a direction, including in the field of research. Of course, you can always be counter-practical, but the fact that no new trail has been left out may also have meant that the negotiations have not been addressed what is really needed. So I think we need to talk about what we need to do strategically and what we need to do. I would say that when you read the report and add it all together, you can see that relatively large amounts of money are being spent. We have among other things. Our ship is also sailing in the Arctic, and it is also a certain amount of money that has been set aside for that I think it is 150 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109190044	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109190047	It is true that it is not, and it was also something that I, among other things, did. Worked a lot last year, that is to say we should be able to get more money into the big pools as well. But I just find that the reality is that there is not quite a connection between our Arctic and foreign policy priorities and what happens when you ultimately sit in the research negotiations • not when you look at how Canada, Norway or China work much more strategically with this area. It was just to poke out the paw to see if we can't get a little wider on this area to get it more concrete and also get some more money shoveled into it. I think that would be good.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109190124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109190126	This seems to me to be very sensible, and once again we hope that will be reflected in the Arctic strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109190132	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. And we move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109190147	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for both the oral and written statement on the Arctic. Although we are waiting for the actual Arctic strategy, I think it is an excellent decision before then to formulate a statement on cooperation in the Arctic as it stands right now. In the Danish People's Party, we attach great importance to the fact that when the Arctic strategy exists, it will be as an overall strategy for the whole kingdom. I understand, perhaps misunderstood, that each of the three countries must come up with a strategy before perhaps a final common strategy can be reached after negotiations. I would warn against this method. It will inevitably mean that there are some who win in the goose's eyes, but so there are some who lose and thereby lose face. This could lead to great disagreements. On the other hand, if our three countries work together on a common strategy, each of them will be able to draw attention to what we have particular credit for. The second and essential argument for unity is that it strengthens the kingdom externally. It would not be satisfactory for the kingdom if other powers, such as China and Russia, pierced the kingdom in order to exploit the cracks for their own gain. This means that one of the most important things in the field of security policy is, as was encouraged at the NATO summit in Brussels in June, that it was established that necessary activities will continue to be carried out in the high north to support NATO's security interests. At the same time, it was established that bilateral cooperation with the United States on Greenland in particular is of particular historical and strategic importance. If we stay with Greenland, of which I am now going to do something special, the question is whether we still regard the Kingdom as the main and fundamental pillar of cooperation, or whether the majority of the Landsting is eager to achieve full autonomy leaning their head towards the United States and thereby knowingly weakening relations with Denmark. It goes without saying that the United States is fully aware of what is going on within the kingdom and, of course, with so-called due diligence, makes its preparations up to the day when Greenland has separated from Denmark. For about a dozen years, the United States has been quietly preparing itself. Greenland's 2009 Self-Government Act, which the Danish People's Party voted against, opened the United States' recent interest in this Arctic part of the kingdom. In the law it was encouraged that Greenland's population is a people; Greenland was now given the opportunity to vote out of the kingdom of Denmark in a referendum. And as mentioned above, the United States made itself ready with due care, in case the secession occurred and Denmark's fleet sailed home, to take over both the military and the civil protection of Greenland immediately. Since 2009, for changing American ambassadors in Copenhagen, it became a must to strengthen relations with Greenland and relations with Greenland, and countless are the journeys made by US diplomats since then to Greenland. The most recent ambassador, Carla Sands, visited Greenland up to ten times, just as Greenlandic politicians have visited Washington in an influx. Since then, as you know, a genuine US Consulate with ten employees has been opened in Nuuk. The situation and the generally poor relationship between official Denmark and official Greenland, and now, regrettably, between the people of the countries, have meant, in my view, that the Kingdom is in a historic crisis. It is serious now that the hatred for Denmark is emerging in the new generations. First of all, however, I would like to point out that Greenland seems to have risen economically well after the pandemic and decommissioning, also with good prospects of growth. It is true, however, that Greenland is, unfortunately, largely dependent on only one export income, namely fishing, and this may at some point cause problems. However, the country is now investing in the tourist industry, which seems to be a very good idea. Greenland's overall economy, however, is weak in an independent Greenland with the state's subsidies as the main element of the economy. So far as economic conditions are concerned. In the following I will deal with the relationship between the countries now, where, in my view, the Kingdom seems to be crumbling not in relation to the Faroe Islands, but especially in relation to the relationship between Greenland and Denmark, where, as I said, the mood is becoming more and more tense. Dramatically, it was up to the Greenlandic election some time ago, when Siumut's president, Erik Jensen, suddenly pulled out, announcing that if Siumut won the election, he would, before the end of the parliamentary term, issue a referendum for or against Greenland's full independence; in this he was supported by the Party of Naleraq. I am surprised that the communication received no particular attention in Denmark when it was a clear election promise from Siumut, which therefore launched something that is a ticking bomb against the Kingdom community. But Danish politicians, with few noble exceptions, say, as usual, about Greenland: We don't interfere. But we in the Danish Parliament will therefore have to, whether we like it or not, interfere when Greenland is preparing to sail away from Denmark in the open. After four years, Denmark will with full payment stop the block grant, as mentioned above, the Danish fleet will sail home also after four years and then Greenland will constitute a military vacuum, which, of course, as the United States will immediately rectify. The Greenlanders, including those resident in Denmark, will have to choose citizenship. That right will probably be granted for a number of years to come, as happened with the Icelanders after their independence. After the four years, special arrangements will have to be introduced in relation to the use of health institutions such as the Rigshospitalet, where Greenlanders as Danish citizens are, of course, entitled to full service. The police and the judiciary are moving all the way to Greenland, and so are the more than 30 areas that self-government has not taken over. There are also a large number of benefits in almost all areas. It is estimated that the total amount that Greenland may finance after the secession itself will amount to at least 10 billion. kr. It seems to be an immense, impossible task. For the benefit of Greenland, which came a few years ago, the university report stated that fiscal policy in the country is no longer sustainable and that future public expenditure will not be covered by block grants and expected tax revenues. As you know, there are two ways of adapting in financial policy. Public expenditure can be reduced, which seems an impossible exercise. Social and health care is pressured to the utmost and then increased revenue can be obtained, which seems to be insurmountable. The size of the block subsidy is legal for Greenland and income from raw materials is missing and even large tax increases will not be able to compensate. New assessments do not give rise to optimism. Here are some examples: Folkeskole in Greenland does not work well. There is a dramatic relocation, so 1 in 4 people born in Greenland is now resident in Denmark around 16,000. The raw materials investigation is dead. There is no longer any significant mining, and uranium has been banned from extracting. The oil tanks have also been crushed long ago, and the companies have pulled out of business. And what may be found by other raw materials will not be able to correct the economy. Greenland has the responsibility, and in a situation where 25-30 lean years are ahead, one should assume that one was betting everything to prevent the disaster, but no. But one thing is the economy, and something else, and that is far more important, is the family relationship that characterizes the Kingdom community. The vast majority of Greenlanders are somehow attached to Denmark, not to forget that all Greenlanders naturally have Danish citizenship. We Danish politicians will therefore now have to confess their colours, because it is in the eleventh hour: are we indifferent, or are we prepared to fight for our kingdom not to be divided? Or are we still looking into the carpet while we mumble that we don't get involved in something like that? I very much miss Danish political commitment to this issue, and I wonder whether Danish politicians are really prepared to contribute to the division of the kingdom, without uttering a word on that occasion other than perhaps the word: congratulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109191124	Thank you. So far there are three people who will ask questions. Now there are four, and there may be more. The first is Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109191132	Thank you. It is actually just to ask a little more about the basic understanding of this with the right of peoples to self-determination and to democratically choose what they want. Because I think there is a strange underlying tone in the rapporteur's presentation of it, namely that it should be illegitimate for the Greenlandic people to discuss whether they want independence or not in relation to Denmark. I think that is a completely legitimate political issue, which one can discuss, also openly, and one can also choose whether to have a vote on it. It seems to me that it is a completely central element in our democracy, both in Denmark, in Greenland and also in the Kingdom community, that it is actually something that the people are naturally allowed to discuss and on which they are, of course, also allowed to vote. But it's like sir. Søren Espersen does not agree with the basic democratic premise, and I would just like that to be clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109191233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109191235	Now I don't think I've ever said it was illegitimate to discuss, because you can discuss anything you want, of course you can. That was not the reason why we said no to the Act of Self-Government, because I think it is a good idea that the people of Greenland are allowed to vote free from the Kingdom of Denmark. I just miss a Danish commitment to this, so that we do not necessarily leave everything to discussion in Greenland. I think it was a good idea for it to be included in the self-government law, and the reason why we voted against the self-government law was the economic one in relation to the raw materials that was then expected to be part of. But illegitimately, I don't think I've ever said anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109191311	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109191313	That is a bit of an impression, rapporteur, I would say. There is also the fact that what is the intention of the Danish Government to say to that, other than that, of course, the people of Greenland must have that discussion? And if the people of Greenland choose to have this vote and want independence, that is the choice they have every right to make. I would just like to know if the Danish People's Party recognises that this is a fact.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109191344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109191345	Yes, I accept that, but I would prefer leading Greenlandic politicians to tell us what was at stake if they did so and not just skated off for some completely impossible idea of independence at the moment. I would like the Greenlandic leaders to tell the people what the result will be. I tried to outline some of this in my speech. It is not cheap, it is an impossible price to pay, because it cannot be paid, and that is why I think that a pseudo-discussion about independence, without having at the same time made itself clear and told the public what it means, simply does not hold up. At least we usually have a tradition of discussing everything in depth, so we also know all the middle bills, but you don't do that here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109191430	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109191434	Thank you to the rapporteur. It was not because it was so expressed in the most uplifting tone. But I would like to thank you for your commitment, because I think that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has always had this in relation to Greenland. Nor has the rapporteur been afraid to make the difficult speeches, which I myself am very much in favour of having the courage to take not only at home in Greenland but also between each other. I think it will be extremely important that, as Enhedslisten also says, we respect Greenland's right to independence, if that is what we want. And, of course, a majority would like that. But my experience among virtually all those I know at home in Greenland is also that we also have insight into the economic conditions, that we also have insight into the social conditions and know what it will mean. Then I think it is important that our Naalakkersuisoq for finances, Mrs Asii Chemnitz Narup, among others. have also been out saying these things as part of the financial law negotiations. So I actually find that there are Greenlandic leaders who dare say these things, even though it sometimes creates a lot of debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109191543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109191544	I respect that. Of course you have to have those opinions. I just think you have to say, as I did, that it is either Denmark or the United States. That is what this is all about. And it's a discussion that you don't want to take. On the other hand, it is incredibly happy that the United States is sending an amount of 80 million. kr. to Greenland to boost development. The block grant every year is 62 times that amount. And then it is received as if now comes the Savior with a whole lot of money to Greenland. That is a lump sum of 80 million. kr. We pay every year, as you know, just under 5 billion. kr., as I said 62 times the amount. There are no red runners out when there is money coming from Denmark, but on the contrary you are cheering wildly because it is the Americans who are coming. That is how it is, that it is Denmark or the United States, and then you have to choose. And you don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109191645	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109191647	Thank you. I think it is going to be extremely important for Denmark not to get pouty behind the United States and say: Why are they getting so much per for relatively little money? I think it will be extremely important for you to pull your own clothes and just find out how we can then both point to the good stories and get something more out of the way, what is already there. I also believe that there is an international relationship to the rights of indigenous peoples. But how can we talk about some things and take initiatives together? It could be as part of the Kingdom's Arctic strategy, but it could also be in the field of research or in a large number of other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109191722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109191724	I certainly think that the block subsidy is part of that too. The block subsidy is thus locked. You know that. This was done by the 2009 Self-Government Act that it was locked up to an amount of EUR 3.5 billion. kr. in 2009 money, which means that no extra money could be granted. It was Greenlandic politicians who wanted it. I was on the commission myself and could not understand why it was so important to them that it should be frozen. It has been the case in the past that a debate has been held every year with the Minister of Finance to find out this in good years and such in bad years. But here the opportunity for extra investment was destroyed. And if you had to change that then perhaps that should be where you should put in and change the self-government law in its packaging.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109191811	Then it's Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109191814	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a lot of talk about Greenland and, in particular, about independence. I think it is important to point out that we are talking about structure and state formation when we talk about this issue in Greenland. It is also said that it is about Denmark or the United States, and I think it is important to point out here that this kind of jubilee has not been understood, as the rapporteur also mentioned. It is not so much about replacing a former colonial power with a new former colonial power, but more about Greenland being closed and monopolised for almost 300 years, and now finally starting to open up in relation to the rest of the world. Because whether Denmark likes it or not, we are in a globalised world, and we would like to have these dialogues and opportunities for economic development and to be trading partners with other countries, and that is what was welcomed. That fg. President (Bent Bøgsted) Yes, thank you!). And then I didn't come up with the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109191915	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109191918	After all, dialogue and cooperation with other countries are extremely important and a great idea, but when it is said that one does not want to replace one colonial power with another, that is what is happening. Well, I don't know if you could imagine that the US Navy sailed mail and cargo between the cities and the settlements in Greenland, just as the Danish fleet does. I could not imagine that this would be part of Greenlandic society in relation to aid packages and so on. But that's the thing: the United States, of course, goes in where others go out. And I think it's a very right way to put it up, that it's either Denmark or the United States. As far as dialogues are concerned, this is extremely important and I cannot understand why there has been no trade with other countries so far. This could only have been done for years; trading with other countries is not something that is prohibited. It may have been in colonial times, but it hasn't been today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109192021	Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109192023	Then we can also come to the question because we were just talking about this state formation, and then the rapporteur interpreted it as if we were voting out of the kingdom altogether. I think it could be interpreted differently, because when we talk about state formation, we are still talking about how it should be constructed. And we must also have a debate with Denmark on how this should be done. Perhaps instead you could make some suggestions that said that you don't even have to leave the kingdom, but that you become a state. Well, there are several examples of that. So perhaps one should consider how DF imagines that cooperation with Denmark will take place after a state formation, and when these negotiations are then also taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109192110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109192112	This is something we discussed a great deal in the time of the Self-Government Commission, among other things. something called free association, which some different islands have in relation to New Zealand, I think. However, it was established by the legal experts that this could not be the case, and the government also said very clearly when Anders Fogh Rasmussen was Prime Minister, that this could not be the case. Nor is it realistic, as we see it. Of course, all things have to be on the table when you discuss it, but if it is not normal state formation then I do not understand anything anymore, because of course it is. If you want complete independence, then it is a state formation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109192157	Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109192200	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. After all, the rapporteur was very pessimistic about the fact that the kingdom is crumbling and criticized Danish politicians for being indifferent and looking down the carpet and regretted that they are not struggling to preserve the kingdom. But isn't it perhaps a legitimate position to have as a Dane to say: It's fine, Greenland's independence is super? There was a researcher I don't remember the name at the moment · as the other day wrote a chapter in a book in which he analysed the relationship between Greenland and Denmark politically and economically, i.e. not historically, culturally or in terms of value. What does Denmark get out of this politically? You come on some speakers' chairs, you can visit the White House etc. Economically, it costs a lot of money. If we removed it all, Denmark would be a small country in northern Europe. Then he asked rhetorically: what is wrong with being a small country in northern Europe? That's fine. Does the rapporteur see any benefit in Greenland becoming independent and Denmark being a country in northern Europe instead of the big country as it is now?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109192303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109192305	I know that there are many people who think it may not matter: then they can do it and then they can sail away. But I do not share that view. I would be terribly sorry if the kingdom of Denmark ceased and if the kingdom of Denmark no longer existed. We're in a historic time right now when it can happen. And for the fact that the kingdom is crumbling, we are. It is then crumble in a large style, not so much in the relationship between the Faroe Islands and Denmark, but strangely enough only in the relationship between Greenland and Denmark. If we don't acknowledge that we're crumbling, we're not going anywhere. We just have to say that it is a reality, and then we have to do away with ourselves whether we think it is a good idea or not. I've done that with myself a long time ago. I think this is a bad idea, and I want to be one of those who fight for the Kingdom community right to the last man. Load man standing! Sorry, last man standing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109192359	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109192402	Speaking of which, would it perhaps be an idea to write in the new Arctic strategy what each one gets out of it, also culturally not only economically, not only historically, but also culturally? What is this community of values? What value does it have for Denmark that Greenland is part of the kingdom and that the Faroe Islands are part of the kingdom? Then it would be all black and white. Because as it is being debated now, it is very much made up of what it costs. When you only look at it financially, there is a great danger that you will say as the researcher I spoke of before: What is there to lose?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109192439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109192441	Nor was it my intention that this should be an economic debate. Because I think it's clear that if it happens, it'll be expensive for dogs. But for me, it is historic and cultural. It is not only a cooperation or a unity that we had for 300 years after Hans Egede came up there, but it is also one that we have had in the old Danish-Norwegian Viking Empire. So it is 1,000 years of cohesion that disappears and crumbles away before our eyes, without much effort being made to avoid it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109192513	Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109192516	Thank you for the floor and thank you for your speech and also for raising this debate. I thought that I would go a little further with the rapporteur, because I think that we are some who are trying to speak up the value of the Kingdom community in terms of geopolitical benefits for all three countries, we think. And there are also economic advantages, compared to the fact that I believe that both in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland you will have a much greater influence on your own future by being in a collaboration with Denmark, where you have this cultural respect for each other than you would have if you found another construction. I believe that there are also voices, including in Greenland, which say more and more, for example. Our sister party Atassut, who also dares to talk about the benefits of the Kingdom community. So it was actually mostly a comment to Mr. Søren Espersen. But I can then ask whether he does not recognise that there are voices that still dare talk about the value of the Kingdom community, also in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109192612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109192614	Yes, I certainly think that we should speak up the value of our community. Nor do I believe that, if it comes to a referendum, there will be a majority in favour of it, because there are also a lot of people around Greenland who do not think it is a good idea. So I hope so, if that happens someday. A small curiosity, by the way, is that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, while Prime Minister, made it clear that at the time of Greenland's referendum, Denmark would consider Greenland to be de facto out of the Kingdom. So it is not even a matter of waiting for a referendum. I have tried to get the present Prime Minister's comment on it, but I have not managed to get it yet. But it is of interest to state law that the discharge itself is enough for it to be withdrawn. And that's also why I think we should be careful about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109192706	Then there are no more questions. We are grateful to the rapporteur, and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109192719	A new Arctic strategy is intended to provide sled tracks for increased armament: armaments in the fight against climate change and for a sustainable environment. And we must insist that the interests of indigenous peoples are always at the heart. In the vicinity of 4 million people live in the region, but have widely different options for determining their own future. Denmark must defend the right of indigenous peoples to self-determination in all international forums. The temperature in the Arctic has risen twice as fast as the global average in the last 5 years, and the prospect is for an increased acceleration. Fortunately, the new Greenlandic Government is on the right track when it comes to putting the climate and the environment first. It has now been decided that Greenland should join the Paris Agreement, while the plans for a gambled oil adventure have fortunately been abandoned. It would also be a trick for grotesque people to drill for oil in the place on Earth that is just about to be hit hardest by climate change, while in the rest of the world, precisely in these years, they are moving away from fossil fuels. At the same time, a potential environmental disaster has been avoided by saying no to the project in Kvanefjeld at Narsaq in South Greenland, a project with, again, potentially major impacts on the environment and the local community. So, to the question "urani"? The answer is: "naamik'. I understand clearly that Greenland must constantly look for sources of funding for the welfare society. But it would be completely out of step with time if it were to happen by at the same time risking nature and the environment and by further straining the climate. A parallel sled track must be increased involvement of Greenland and the Faroe Islands in a new and different and more binding way than before. A strategy for the Arctic can also be the start of a new strategy on how to deal with the Kingdom community. Now, in fact, we have a chance to show that we are serious when we talk about modernising relations between the three nations, the three peoples that form the kingdom community. Now, in practice, we can extend Greenland and the Faroe Islands' foreign policy business space, and it can just be an important step towards a kingdom community with more equal value and mutual respect. A kingdom community that looks forward to the challenges and opportunities that will come and a kingdom community that in time wants to use the common but often also conflicting history to constructively move forward together. Because we achieve far more together than we do separately. If we are not careful, we are going against a new cold war on the Arctic, and that is why it is so important that we must stand firm on the Igaliku and Ilulissat declarations. If we are not clear in our priorities, Denmark risks ending up like Bambi on the ice. For SF there is no doubt that it must be with the three main lead points low-voltage, action for the climate and environment and respectful cooperation in the kingdom community. In SF we are very pleased with the great focus that the statement has on the environment and climate. The focus of developments in the Arctic is precisely climate change. The ice sheet melts, new shipping routes become available, and the appetite of the great powers for influence grows. But the report of the great powers in the region bears witness to the fact that climate and the environment must continue to be Denmark's top priority. Russia's significant expansion and consolidation of the military presence along its Arctic coast is not surprising, but nevertheless worrying. But the arrow doesn't just point one way. In September 2020 Danish military aircraft together with Norwegian, British American ships participated in an exercise close to important Russian bases. Why is it that Denmark is actually participating in exercises that Russia is of course experiencing as an aggression? Is that what we mean by low voltage? There are clearly contradictions between Danish desires for low-voltage and the dense Danish-American alliance. The United States kicks into the Kingdom community these years and tries to massage it both the Greenlandic public and the Danish public with various means. Look, they paid about 80 million. kr. in support of Greenland, where most of the money went to Americans who are part of projects. Just to compare the amounts, this corresponds to what Denmark sends to Greenland each week, year round. But they have succeeded in getting an incredibly positive mention of a little bit of money, so I choose to put it this way: shouldn't we learn from it in Denmark? On the other hand, we must also say, as they say in America: There is no such thing as a free lunch. The aim of the Americans is, of course, increased armament and presence in Greenland and the Faroe Islands. The US's acting ambassador, Stuart A. Dwyer, has already announced an increase in military presence and several exercises between the United States and Denmark. The Americans want increased access to airports and naval support points and increased armaments in Thule and Kangerlussuaq. It is clear that it creates fear in Russia, and then the spiral of armament turns. Secretary of Defense Trine Bramsen has confirmed that the Americans would like more logistical support, but we come to the question: what do the Greenlanders and the Faroese actually say about that? These are their countries, however. The question of the Arctic can potentially divide the Kingdom community, increase armaments, increase the level of conflict and, at the same time, burden relations between Denmark and the United States. The report from the Center for Military Studies states that it is expected that the United States will establish more arctic naval bases, more deployments and flights, for example. F-35 and P-8 anti-submarine planes. It will then take place from bases in Alaska and expect from Thulebasen as well. I am very concerned about the massive arms build-up that Norway is experiencing in these years, and especially about the parallel agreement, which among other things. will give the United States access to several naval bases in Norway. I think we should prepare ourselves for similar requests for special agreements with the United States and where the result is guaranteed to be increased armaments, including in the Arctic. It is only a few years ago that China adopted an Arctic strategy and they now define themselves with the newly-found and absurd concept of near-Arctic state. But for many years they have tried to put their feet in the door to Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and therefore it is natural to ask: When will China want to set up a consulate in Nuuk, and what will we say about that? To some extent, the European Union can be a counter-move to the aggressive interests of the great powers. The report shows that EU Arctic policy is focused on climate change and the protection of the Arctic environment, sustainable development and international cooperation on Arctic issues. These are focus areas that the SF looks at very positively, and Denmark should contribute internationally and by increasing the monitoring of climate change itself and the consequences of them. In this context, I would really like to stress what I see as the important thing in the agreement reached between the Government, the Faroe Islands' landsting and the Naalaksuisut back in June that Greenland, during the formal speech at the Arctic Council ministerial meetings, will take the floor first followed by the Faroe Islands and Denmark. It has already proved to be a step in the right direction, and in the SF we acknowledge the government's efforts to establish a more equal relationship between the three nations of the Kingdom Community. I have heard critical voices in the debate on this new division of labour as something that might destabilise the Kingdom community. I see the opposite, because I see it as absolutely necessary for the Kingdom community to survive. If we find the key to that success, we will have a stronger kingdom community and thus the opportunity to match the Great Power Rival in the Arctic and tackle climate change in the place where they have happened most significantly for decades before our eyes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109193608	Thank you, and there are a few questions. First, it's sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109193614	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. The rapporteur is very concerned about the United States' action in the Arctic. The United States is like the villain who can lead to greater armor. I do not know what the rapporteur thinks if I mention the countries of Georgia or Chechnya or Ukraine or Belarus. What ideas does the rapporteur have in mind? If I mention the massive build-up that Russia is doing in Franz Josef's country, where missiles are set up that can hit both Greenland and the United States, what do you think? What do you think when Sweden, which is not part of NATO, equips massively at 40% when Finland equips because it is afraid of the Russian overflights taking place in the Nordic airspace? I do not understand why the rapporteur sees the United States as the villain when it is evident to Norway, to Sweden, to Finland, to everyone that it is a massive armament that is happening on the Russian side, and we have seen Russia do terrible things to its neighbours. I do not understand why the rapporteur is looking at what he is doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109193718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109193720	I think it is a somewhat sought comparison to compare Russia's aggression in Crimea with the situation in the Arctic. It is quite obvious that Russia aggressively dominates its neighbours. It is equally clear that we are following very closely what is happening at Nagurskojebasen in Franz Josef's country. It is quite obvious that Russia is in the process of armament. Where we just have the opportunity to have a little influence is by making more of a disarmament strategy with the United States, and that is why I am particularly addressing this to the United States. I mentioned Russia, by the way. But if you're gonna get the Russians to not the enemy, the opponent... what are we gonna call it? It is quite clear that the United States is Denmark's absolutely most important ally. It is for the SF, too, but there's just that it's with the United States that we can make strategy that allows us to get low voltage instead of going into an armament spiral. That was my point.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109193821	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109193824	Thanks for making that point clear... now I was greatly reassured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109193829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109193831	I think we made it all.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109193833	Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109193836	Thank you to the rapporteur and thank you for your cooperation and also for your speech. I think it is very refreshing that we also dare to be a little critical of an ally, and I also believe that we in Greenland have to be critical of the United States. So I understand perfectly well, at least where the rapporteur comes from. I would actually like to ask such a rather rhetorical question, and it is perhaps more to the government, but perhaps also to the rapporteur: can we even separate foreign and security policy today? Security policy is part of business policy, it is part of research policy, it is part of a wide range of areas, and I think it is interesting to know whether the Kingdom's Arctic strategy will also relate to the security policy situation. For my experience is that the debate we have today is much more about security policy than it has done in the past. So I would like to hear the rapporteur's reaction.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109193927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109193930	I think it is quite right that today we cannot just set the line between what is a defence policy, what is a military policy, what is a security policy and what is a trade policy or what is a cyber war. In other words, when China is trying to buy Green Valley, someone thinks that as I have sometimes heard in the Greenlandic debate, Chinese money does not smell. But they may actually do that, because if they have a desire to buy Grøndal and they were fortunately not given the opportunity to do so, it is because they have strategic interests. When they try not only to build but also to finance airports, it is because they have a clear strategic interest in China. That is why there is a close link here between trade policy, economic policy and security policy, and I think that we have been right to say that there is no room here for China to kick the door into relation to Greenland. It would be extremely dangerous for Greenland, but it would also be extremely dangerous for our kingdom community and, quite importantly, for peace.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109194028	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109194031	Thank you very much. I believe that the rapporteur's speech actually confirms the reality that we are seeing at home in Greenland right now, namely that there is a great exercise going on in Greenland for a two-digit sum of millions and where there is cooperation between Denmark and the United States in the military field in relation to doing some exercises in Greenland. So I do not think it has been taken out of thin air, but it is at least interpreted by scientists as a charm offensive, including from the American side. So I would like to hear the rapporteur say a few words about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109194105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109194107	Sometimes we can make things a lot easier for ourselves by just talking about things the way they are. And those who insist that the US's newfound strong interest in Greenland and the Arctic alone should be due to interest in Inuit culture or to action are cheated. Because what it's all about here is raw power. It's just done with a soft glove, isn't it? But inside the Americans' velvet gloves there is an iron fist and there is no significant difference, if there is any difference, between Biden and Trump. They just have a few different ways of saying it. Therefore, we just have to be completely cynical in assessing why the Americans are doing this because they want influence and then we can try to deal with it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109194152	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Susan Kronborg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109194207	Thank you, President. I'd like to say hello to you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. It is my honour today, and I should like to begin by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs for this year's Arctic statement, and with Mr Van den Broek. Martin Lidegaard's words are much to explain. Not just year by year, but almost month by month, the entire Arctic is evolving. So great is the interest in Greenland, the Faroe Islands and the North Atlantic that it can be difficult to keep up with, whether it is NATO, the EU or various major powers and companies that show interest. One can thus think a lot about the development in the Arctic, but two things seem more and more safe for each year that goes: The Arctic will have an increasing place in Danish foreign policy, and this will increase the requirements for cooperation and coordination between Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark. We in Radicals are both optimistic and hopeful when it comes to whether the three parts of the Kingdom would actually be able to cooperate and play the important role together in the major international geopolitics. This is mainly due to the fact that there is so openly more gathering or separating when it comes to the concrete political objective that we want to pursue in the Arctic. Our analysis is that in all three countries, three goals or visions are included over and over again when we discuss the future of and in the Arctic. Firstly, we want peaceful development with low-voltage and as little military confrontation as possible. Secondly, we want sustainable development for all this incredibly beautiful area of the globe and how happy it is that Greenland has now also chosen to join the Paris Agreement. Thank you. Thirdly, we want greater prosperity for the people who inhabit the entire Arctic region. I wonder if by far the majority of all citizens in the whole kingdom will be able to sign on to the three main lines of sight as the foundation of a common Arctic strategy. We think so. So maybe some will say: should we not be able to act as individual countries with each our own strategy and with ever greater autonomy to Greenland and the Faroe Islands? Yes. We in Radicals understand the desire for a more independent voice in the world, but, like Danish politicians, perhaps we need to be better able to understand that we are keeping our community together, if we support the great desire to be heard more and become more independent, not least in the economic field, yes, perhaps it is also in these years that we are sneaking a new realization into Greenlandic, Faroese and Danish politics, a realization that if we three small states are to have a voice in the new geopolitical and multipolar world order at all, we must be able to get our slightly different voices to gather together in one harmonious choir that is seriously listened to. So thank you to the Minister for the statement, but equally thank you to our North Atlantic colleagues, both here and in the other parliaments, for contributing more and more wholeheartedly to the common song. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109194600	We thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. And the next is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109194614	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say that I think it is very good that we have this debate today, because developments in the Arctic area are of course insanely important, and one must be very blind and deaf, not to be able to see that it has become a very, very hot subject, also for many of the great powers around us, to discuss the Arctic. So it is really, really good that we have the discussion today. Of course, one of the things that is really, really important is that Denmark cooperates very, very closely and equally with Greenland and the Faroe Islands to develop a peaceful and green and democratic direction for the development of the Arctic. I think it is very good and sensible, as the government is also proposing, to say that we would like to be involved in waiting for Greenland to write its foreign policy strategy first, and also that the Faroe Islands, of course, will have the opportunity to do so to the extent that they wish, and that we will then proceed with the Arctic strategy. I think that is quite reasonable. I also think that we have seen some good movements lately, especially with the fact that the government, together with Greenland and the Faroe Islands, also agreed that with the Arctic Council and the Council of Ministers there you can change the order, so it is actually Greenland and the Faroe Islands that speak first, and then it is Denmark etc. I think that is just the right way to go about things. However, from the side of Enhedslisten, we would still like to see the government becoming more ambitious, especially on what is about Arctic research, and I also think that there is a need to work more actively on disarmament and diplomacy in relation to the Arctic area, and then, of course, all of us together have a huge challenge in dealing with climate change, which is of course a very big challenge globally, but which also hits the Arctic area very hard, and therefore it is clear that we must also stand together to have a very, very strong green profile. By the way, it is great that Greenland has also just joined the Paris Agreement, which is really, really cool. When you talk about how to handle this work in the Arctic, we also have some principles in the Enhedslisten, we try to navigate a little, and the first is that our cooperation with Greenland and the Faroe Islands really must be put in the top priority. It is absolutely crucial that there is as much influence and self-determination as possible that we ensure that Greenland and the Faroe Islands are involved in the relevant political forums in which we participate. I see it as such that Greenland and the Faroe Islands are in fact our closest allies to talking Arctic politics and empire. I often think we hear the Prime Minister say that the United States is our closest ally, and there I think it makes very good sense to look more towards Greenland and the Faroe Islands and also the other Nordic countries, our neighbours, and to strengthen that cooperation very much. I think this is absolutely central, especially because we share the kingdom community with Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and without it Denmark would honestly not have a whistle to do at all with the Arctic now. So it is probably also very good that we take that responsibility really centrally to ensure that representation. As I said, I also believe that we can do a great deal by strengthening cooperation with the Nordic countries. As a second principle, it can be said that there are other rapporteurs who have mentioned it before, it is with the fact that right now I also believe that the development of the Arctic and the very great interest that is from other countries call for Denmark, with a good old expression we used in my young days at least, to tighten the helmet once, which means getting a little bit together, and getting a little out of the shoes. Instead of sitting and being a little worried that China is investing enormously in research in relation to Greenland and the Arctic, and instead of perhaps being very concerned that the United States is making a representation in Greenland and something like that, it might well be that you should come to the pockets and get yourself more active both in the field of research and at the level of diplomacy and politics. I think that, particularly in relation to Arctic research, which is also really, really important for the green transition, there are some very good foundations to build on already, but there is simply so much untapped potential, and there we could really, as I also appealed to before, if we thought it into a more central part, including our foreign policy in relation to the Arctic, make a really big difference, I think. This really is a major focus area for us in the Enhedslisten at least, and we have tried to get it into the research negotiations over the last few years and get some things through, but it is simply not enough, because it has to be more strategic and centrally thought into. Canada, Norway, China and other countries go much more strategically to this area, and there really is something to come for. Then it is also very important for us that in everything we like to do from activities in the Arctic one should simply think about respect for the local populations, for nature and for wildlife. There are plenty of economic and military and security interests at stake for all sorts of countries in this area, but the key question must always be how the development that is happening affects the people living in the Arctic area and how it affects the nature and wildlife that is in the area. So it's about getting some sustainable principles to aim for and take it very seriously. I also think that this is important when, for example, we are dealing with the matter. It starts talking about the extraction of minerals and other materials in Greenland, so that you also arrange for example. to support how we can also ensure that there is in fact proper environmental regulation of this kind of activity, how can we also help with respect for labour rights and everything else? These are some of the questions that I think Denmark should make available to a helper if you want it from Greenland. Finally, there is the very big question: what is at stake is that peaceful development in the Arctic is absolutely central. It is very, very clear that there is an increase in tension in these years, and I think we can see this very clearly, and it is so crucial that the Danish Government is also really working not only in speech but also in practice for low-voltage in the Arctic. It is, of course, both a matter of actively complying with the Ilulissat Declaration, which is a very good foundation for cooperation in the area, but also of being very, very aware that the conflicts we see between the great powers in other parts of the world should not play a role and colour the Arctic region. One of the things that worries me very, very much is precisely this, if NATO gets a bigger role to play in the Arctic. I really think we should try to avoid that. And we can see that some steps are being taken in this direction, and we can see that NATO was going to mention for the first time, that is, the high north, the Arctic, at their last summit here, and we can see that Stoltenberg is becoming more active in it, and I also sometimes think that I am getting a little worried. Now I think there have been some good reports from the rapporteurs, both from the Social Democrats and from the Left, but I can also sometimes get a little worried about how the government sees one should stand in relation to NATO. I really think it is very, very important that we try to keep NATO out as an actor in the Arctic region, because I think it will be seen as an increase in tension which may escalate the situation. So it is at least one of the things that I think is very, very important to pay attention to the coming years, and I think it is very, very important that everything that happens there and the way we act, the way we step, is done in very, very close coordination with Greenland and the Faroe Islands, because in the end it is the people who live in Greenland and the Faroe Islands in particular who will be at great risk if there is an increase in armaments and tension in the area, and I do not think we should risk that, so everything that is being done should be done in very, very close coordination there. But low-voltage I think is one of the most important challenges in the future, and that we are really doing it and not just saying it in a nice way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109195620	Thank you. There are a few questions. The first is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109195625	Thank you for your speech, thank you for your good cooperation and, in particular, thank you for your efforts in relation to the research reserve and the negotiations. We are not sitting here, so it is good to have some good political colleagues here in the Danish Parliament, and that is so across the political parties, because Conservatives have, as it were, also helped to back up. Thank you very much for the effort to get money for Nasiffik, this foreign policy centre in Greenland. Very briefly, I would like to say something about NATO. After all, NATO makes a little distinction between the North Atlantic and the Arctic, and that is quite interesting. This is exactly how we can keep the Arctic a little out of it. Because there's this interest in the GIUK gap, Greenland, Iceland and the UK. And there are also some gaps, one might say, in the monitoring in general in Greenland. Specifically, it is about an air radar that I believe can help to ensure that we know what is going on, but without our arming. I think that is good tactics that we need to continue working on. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether she had any thoughts about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109195732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109195734	Thank you for the words and just above, I must say to the rapporteur of the IA. It is a great pleasure to work together in daily life, including research here. With regard to the role of NATO, it is clear that there are some things, for example. the desire to have a better overview of what is going on that can be reasonable and legitimate enough. I still think it's really important to think about how to do it. Also when we talk radar in the Faroe Islands, I think it is very, very important that it is also in a way where the Faroese population and Faroese Laying are involved in deciding how this is actually to be operated and run, what information you collect and how to access it. I think that is quite essential and it also has something to say about how the structure is being made around such monitoring measures. So I think you have to think about that a lot. Then I understand that there is a difference between the North Atlantic and then further up towards Greenland, but there is probably also some gliding in relation to how it happens now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109195846	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109195848	But I would just like to give the rapporteur a little more time to complete the final part.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109195852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109195853	In relation to the gliding: how for example. More NATO exercises in the North Atlantic area, but also further down, will be perceived by Russia, we still do not know quite well. And how far up north you'll end up sailing in the coming time, we still don't know away either. So yes, there are some differences, but I also think it is a very, very delicate balance, and there I think it is very, very important that both Greenland and the Faroe Islands are involved in saying: Hey, how do we draw those lines, and how is it actually perceived?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109195933	Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109195935	Thank you. There are many who say that we must keep NATO out, and we can agree with that, because it is seen by Russia as a provocation. However, while keeping NATO out, the United States is massively present, not least with the new bilateral agreement between Norway and the United States, which opens up four bases. After all, the rapporteur is also the foreign rapporteur. Does the rapporteur think that a distinction can be made between NATO and the country which is the totally dominant country in NATO, namely the United States? Can we say that NATO is not present, for example? in Norway with the new bases when the United States is there?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109200018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109200019	At any rate, it is obvious that there is quite a coincidence between the interests of the United States and NATO. It is quite obvious that this is the case. But yes, I think that to some extent one can distinguish. At least it has been the line earlier to say that the United States also has a right to be present in the Arctic region as one of the states that lie there. Well, it's quite real. But NATO being there as an organization is something a little different. I think there has been a distinction in the past between, whether it is one or the other, and I think that it is also the case that there has been from the Russian side. I think you just have to think a lot about how it's being used and how it's being seen. So yes, I do not believe that it is quite the same whether the United States is an independent player or whether it is just a full-blown NATO operation that you run off along, for example. Greenland coast. No, actually, I don't think that's exactly the same thing. But it is clear that there is a coincidence of interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109200128	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale? No. Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109200144	Thank you, sir. President. I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for his statement, which follows on from the Arctic strategy. I've been looking forward to the debate tonight. I know it's one of them who pulls a little bit into the late night hours. I'm sure no one would mind. Denmark's participation in the Arctic and the development in the Arctic is of course about something that has attention and importance especially in these days. And from such a more low-practical point of view we are a part that has just returned from visits to both Nuuk and Thorshavn with the Foreign Policy Name, so that makes it extra interesting. What I think we all agree on is, of course, that we want peaceful development in the Arctic and a development in which tensions and armaments in other parts of the world are not reflected. Of course, I am thinking in particular of Russia and, of course, China. It may be a little naive to have that hope, but I think that is at least the direction we all want for the development of the Arctic. Our view is that if Denmark is to have the greatest possible role in working towards peaceful development in the Arctic, we need to strengthen our kingdom community and stand even closer together. It is now a pity that the President and Vice-President of the Board of Governors are not here today • Martin Lidegaard and Michael Aastrup Jensen. However, I would like to pay a great deal of tribute to the work they have set in motion just trying to bring foreign affairs committees to apologise if I use the wrong phrase • or security committee in our three kingdoms even closer together by proposing an annual meeting at the parliamentary level. That is also some of what I think Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam has been talking about tonight. We often see that at ministerial level there is actually quite a close cooperation, but here in the Folketing or at the parliamentary level in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands you are not always fully up to date with what is happening. This can sometimes lead to some awkward misunderstandings, such as those we sometimes run into. We can just take the issue of a radar in the Faroe Islands, which we discussed when we were in the Faroe Islands recently, where there had been a dialogue at ministerial level, but even in the Committee on Foreign Affairs or the Foreign Affairs mentioned had not been aware of it. Well, it's made some sour mines. For this reason, we in the Conservatives also believe that our North Atlantic mandates should have more influence in the work of this Parliament. This is true, for example. Now that we have discussed the Arctic Capacity Package. This is also true in relation to the defence settlement and those parts of the defence settlement that affect Greenland and the Faroe Islands. There we would like to see an increase in influence. I believe that this will increase cooperation and good will between our parts of the country. This brings me to the development in Greenland and the Faroe Islands. I think we all rolled our eyes when President Trump wanted to buy Greenland. Mette Frederiksen even called it absurd. It was a language I certainly supported. I was gonna say that you can live with it or not. But at least I thought it was a fine expression. We also need to be careful not to get too naive, as Mogens Jensen says. The United States is currently opening a consulate in Nuuk. We wholeheartedly support that. The United States is our closest ally... regardless of what Eva Flyvholm says... especially in the Arctic regions through, yes, more than a lifetime. I just can't help but think about some little things. The American consulate is going to have a USID employee, a bit like you send to a developing country to do some projects and buy yourself a little goodwill winning of hearts and minds, you would say in a war zone, although I know that we are not allowed to speak English from up here but a project design to buy some goodwill. In any case, I find that problematic. I agree with Mr. Karsten Hønge, who says that there is no such thing as a free lunch • sorry again: foreign language. I find that a little worrying, not for the same reason as Mr. Karsten Hønge, who is concerned about military cooperation, but I am concerned about whether the consulate can also circumvent the foreign policy cooperation which must go through Copenhagen and not through Nuuk. Perhaps I am just a blackseer, but I hope that the Foreign Minister will look at this very seriously in the dialogue with, not least, the American Embassy here in Copenhagen. In the same context, of course, I also hope that the Foreign Minister will look very seriously at attempts by the Russians or others to also establish a consulate beyond the Americans and what might come from the European Union. In addition to these little sour upbringings from the conservative side, of course, we want even closer cooperation with the United States and with our other allies in NATO, and we want even closer cooperation in the Kingdom community. That is where I agree far along the way with Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen in that a closer kingdom is a good thing. There we see a particularly positive thing: the opening of the two new airports in Ilulissat and in Nuuk, which will open in 2024 with a little delay. For when you can fly directly from Copenhagen to at least the two cities without having to go all the way past Kangerlussuaq, I think we have the opportunity to open a new chapter in the cooperation between Greenland and Denmark in relation to everything from families who can visit each other on a very short basis on a weekend, or whatever it may be or work between the two kingdoms or schools that can come up without this eternal long trip, which can sometimes take up to several days. So with these words I would say that yes, we are concerned about developments in the Arctic in terms of security, but when it comes to the Commonwealth, not least in relation to Greenland, we hope that the new airports will open up the possibility of even closer cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109200744	We thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. New citizens are not here, neither is the Liberal Alliance, nor is the Free Greens, nor are the Christian Democrats here. Then we have reached Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109200802	With climate change and international interest in Greenland and the Arctic, we see international attention as never before. Locally, this is reflected in the fact that the United States and the European Union want representation in Nuuk. Economic investment in Greenland is very welcome, but what do we really want in the field of foreign and security policy both at home in Greenland and here in the Kingdom Community? The answers are still blowing away in the wind. Although we have a common policy between Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark in the field of foreign policy, we need to put a clear strategic line forward towards 2030. It is necessary that we in Greenland and together with the rest of the Kingdom community dictate the development of our part of the Arctic ourselves, and that is why we come here with a number of priorities for a future strategy. The Arctic work must be clearly strengthened. A meeting of ministers every two years in the Arctic Council is not enough. We know that there are six different working groups which very technically cooperate between the Arctic States, but if we compare it with other international cooperation, we believe that the Arctic work in the Arctic Council should be strengthened by 2030 and that even more funding should be allocated to that work. The Arctic Council has already decided on a strategy towards 2030 during the Icelandic Presidency, and forward to the Kingdom Community taking over the presidency of the Arctic Council. I believe that it is in 2025 that it should be prepared to strengthen the Council in line with this strategy. Recently, several of us participated in Arctic Circle in Iceland and, as President of Arctic Parliamentarians, I held a session with the Arctic Economic Council in which the Foreign Minister also took part in the debate. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for supporting our event and for contributing to a rich debate on sustainable economic development in the Arctic. At the event, Arctic parliamentarians and the Arctic Economic Council signed a memorandum of understanding... I regret the many English words that intend to attract international investment to the Arctic. We are in the process of following that up. An important area of foreign policy is the international work of indigenous peoples. Denmark and Greenland are the only country in the Arctic where both the UN Declaration for indigenous peoples and ILO Convention No. 169 has taken up their duties. I think that is quite thought-provoking. In addition, Denmark pays a large number of international things, among others. Ingenous Peoples Secretariat under the Arctic Council, and for a wide range of other initiatives, including: The cooperation of UArctic universities in the Arctic. We should further promote that effort and do more to promote the rights of indigenous peoples together, including encouraging the other states to strengthen their work for indigenous peoples. Before long, ICC Greenland will also be head of the ICC's international work for indigenous peoples, and it should also be supported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as supported by the Naala Suisut. In Greenland it is important that we increase the number of free trade agreements. They have a part of them in the Faroe Islands, and they are a major role model for us to follow the development they have in the Faroe Islands in the same way. This will help to increase Greenland's exports and trade with countries around us. We can help to support this development, not least by ensuring that there is stable governance at home in Greenland and credible management, because momentum is really now when we talk about external interest and the opportunities for increased international investment. The combination of business development and education is central to creating growth and prosperity in Greenland. Both business policy and education policy are reclaimed areas, but our common experience has shown us that business policy can quickly become a security policy, and we know that competence still lies in Denmark. This is certainly not the last time that we will see that the great powers will have an interest in Greenland and thus turn on the internal debate about where the border between industrial policy and security policy lies. I believe that we need to be much more at the forefront there. Can we, for example, do this? are free to enter into free trade agreements with all the countries we want? And if you say no to investments in critical infrastructure for example. China, it should then be followed by an alternative, for example. on the Danish, European or Nordic side? These grey areas between industrial and security policy must not become a slippery path, so we will lose self-determination in repatriated areas in Greenland. That is precisely why a close dialogue within the newly established Contact Committee between our countries is absolutely essential. Similarly, we must also ensure that there is a closer dialogue between the three parliaments. We would very much like to support this from the IA. We are doing what we can on the part of the Greenland Committee and would like to do even more so that in the long term we can help to ensure that this becomes a formalised mechanism, involving one another and having the close dialogue, including the parliaments, between them. Open and constructive dialogue is essential for the conflicts of interest that may exist internally to be resolved internally so that we can stand strongly on the outside. This is extremely important in order to be able to conduct a strong foreign policy. In this way, we gain the most for the benefit of all parties. Greenland is 20%. of the geographical area of the Arctic, and at the same time we are the only Arctic country that does not have an Arctic strategy. From this perspective it is striking that a country like Italy has an Arctic strategy and that France is also beginning to show interest in Greenland as part of the Arctic region. Greenland must, of course, have its own Arctic strategy, which must set the direction for foreign and security policy, and then, as soon as possible, we must also have a common Arctic strategy in place. We would like to see this work started as soon as possible, and I would like to see it poured out before the year. Our colleagues in Inatsisartut will be discussing the foreign policy statement on 18 November, and with these debates I think that there is a very good basis for laying a common strategic line, both at home in Greenland, but also here in the Folketing in cooperation with Greenland and the Faroe Islands. In addition to enterprise policy, the future Arctic strategy should also focus heavily on research and international cooperation on research in the Arctic. With HIV and swings we have been allocated money for the establishment of a foreign policy research centre, which has been named Nasiffik, which means e-mail in Danish, and which officially opens now on Thursday in Nuuk in Greenland. It is an area that really moves and where it is extremely important that we ensure that we also help to strengthen our efforts and strengthen our knowledge in Greenland. It is about strategic capacity building in Greenlandic society if we want to offer qualified foreign policy in the future. In Greenland we hatch more and more PhDs and postdocs. This is really, really positive, and this development will help to support an Arctic strategy so that we can have the local foreign policy competence and thus Greenland's foreign policy competence. For knowledge of foreign and security policy is important for Greenland to play a much greater role in an even better way in the future. It is obvious that we will develop Nasiffik in the years to come. In those words, I would like to thank you very much for your statement. I am very much looking forward to the debate and also to the issues that I hope will come up with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109201658	Yeah, at least two people want to ask questions. The first is Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109201703	First of all, thank you very much to the rapporteur for the hard work that I think is being done to inform the rest of us about what is going on. At any rate, I always think that the rapporteur is a good source of knowledge and inspiration to lean on, and now we have also learned that Italy even has an Arctic strategy. I must say that was new to me. However, with regard to research, I fully agree that it should be incorporated and that Nasiffik should also be a more permanent and more developed institution with which we can work in the coming years. In relation to this question of disarmament, which we also touched on earlier, I would really like to hear the rapporteur's thoughts on how best to create this overview of what is going on there in some way, and it is quite legitimate that we should like to have a better overview of the situation, but that we should do activities which do not really lead to armaments. It could be nice to have a little more thoughts about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109201817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109201818	Thank you very much. I hear quite broadly that there is a desire for low voltage. It is certainly not just in this debate, but in general parliamentary debates, and I just think it is extremely important that we continue to have this dialogue and that we have some forums where we like to make our views known, because that is, of course, the starting point. Then I am also thinking of the close dialogue, and perhaps that is where the parliaments are a little left out. I mean, it's a little coincidence how the foreign policy name, for example. Talking to foreign policy committees at home in Inatsisartut, and I would like to see things formalised, because that way you can also help to hear what people are really concerned about at home in Greenland, and there it is clearly low tension and disarmament in Greenland. It speaks a little against everything that is going on around Greenland, so in this way Greenland becomes a little an object, and I just think Greenland should be more in the driver's shirt.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109201915	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109201917	I very much agree with that view. There are just some attempts being made to coordinate this cooperation better, but if there is something we can do, as in concrete terms, to strengthen it, please make a bid for it. But it is sometimes also difficult in the very concrete balance. One thing is to talk about low-voltage, for example, and there are more exercises on the Russian side, but also on the American, Danish and NATO side, I think that in the years to come you will see more military exercises, for example, but how to put the cut in that development...
ParlaMint-DK_20211109201957	Yes, thank you, then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109201959	So, I think that the more interests at stake, the greater the potential for conflict, and that is a little the situation that Greenland is facing. I think we're gonna jump a little from tue to tue. Then the European Union comes and says: we are interested in this and we have these demands. And then the Americans come and say, "We're interested in this." This is actually where I would like to reverse that situation, so it is actually Greenland that has a discussion and gets clarification of what you really want. Is it low-voltage, and is that what all parties in Greenland want? That is what I am missing a little in that debate too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109202029	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109202031	Today, as so often before, we have talked about the great powers of the United States, Russia and China, when it comes to the Arctic. Now Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen has mentioned Italy herself, but we can at least see that two such semi-large powers, namely France and the UK, have massive interests in the Arctic and in various ways try to get their feet inside where they can get to it. They are not hiding their Arctic ambitions. And what I would like to ask is: how does Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen look forward to the process of establishing a common Arctic strategy? Because we can see that around us all sorts of powers relate to the Arctic, and we stand and keep each other in check, I experience the three countries of Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark. But how does Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen see a road map on how we are going to put an Arctic strategy in place?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109202125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109202127	Thank you very much. I can say that I have a close dialogue with my own party at home in Greenland, and there I have also laid out some things clearly and said that this could be a way to go in relation to foreign and security policy, as well as helping to push things a little faster. I have also reported that we have had discussions in the Greenland Committee, and the pressure, in relation to the fact that we have a strategy, is getting bigger and bigger in the Danish Parliament understandably. And that is why I think we need to have a rather short process because we have been waiting for a very, very long time. The choice in Greenland was in April, so there is a need for a strategy for Greenland quite quickly and then a common strategy, and it is therefore urgent. I think it's important, because otherwise it's all of us jumping from tue to tue. So if we want to steer developments in the Arctic, it is we who have to say which way we want to go and what we say yes to and what we say no to.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109202221	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109202223	Yeah, or from ice flake to ice flake. But how does Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen see the possibility of this? Is the ambition that Naala Suisut, together with the Danish Government, should come together, or should the initiative come from Naala Suisut? Or does Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen expect this to be an initiative for parliamentarians? We have been talking about it for a long time now, and we may disagree about the strategy wondering if we will be; that is not known. But so far we all feel more or less than at all to find the process in it. So how can this happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109202300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109202300-2	My experience is that Naalaksuisut really wants to make a foreign policy strategy and also understands that it is important that it happens quickly. And then, of course, you have to talk to the government and talk to the government, in relation to what line it is that needs to be drawn. I believe that we as Parliament must be involved again, because it is a very long time since we have been involved, and it is important that we also know what is going on and that we do not suddenly read it in the newspaper, but that the Folketing also feels involved in the preparation of the Kingdom's Arctic strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109202333	Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109202336	Thank you very much for your speech and thank you very much for your cooperation on a daily basis, which is very good. This is also the case with the foreign and security policy strategy, which the rapporteur emphasizes that you want to do yourself in Greenland before a common strategy is drawn up. After all, we have the view in the Left that the reason why the Kingdom is strong is that we are united. We are a small country, together with the kingdom community we are a large country, the Faroe Islands and Greenland are also economically a stronger country, and not just a large country. This is something I'm kind of interested in. It is for what the rapporteur says that a foreign policy and security policy strategy will be drawn up first for Greenland: is this something you coordinate with the Danish Government or how do you imagine it? Is it security policy measures that you want to make yourself, or is it expected that the government will carry out the security policy measures after they have been adopted in Greenland? Or how do you view it? What are some things you want to talk about?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109202436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109202437	Thank you. Historically, I do not think that the politicians, when the last time the Kingdom's Arctic strategy was drawn up, i.e. the one that applied until 2020, were necessarily complaining so much about it coming. It is my experience today that our politicians are somewhat more self-conscious and want to help set that direction. And as I said, Greenland's foreign policy strategy dates back to 2011. So many things have really happened since then, and I think it is important that we have some reflections. My experience is that the large, broad majority in Greenland in foreign policy committees and among the parties like to want something similar to what we are also talking about in here: low tension, focus on research, climate and business development. I think that is some of the same trends you want to see at home in Greenland. So I do not think we should be so worried about that part, and I am quite sure that it will be coordinated between Naala Suisut and the government if there are some foreign policy and security policy aspects in Greenland's own foreign policy strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109202542	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109202542-2	Thank you for your answer. That's how it's gonna be. There is also a security policy strategy, and if there are now some things on the Greenland side where, when you talk to the other kingdom parts afterwards and have to make a common strategy, you get input from e.g. the government that from the Danish or Faroese side it is not economically or militaryly thought that what has been arrived at in Greenland is particularly wise, but if you did so you are willing to move forward afterwards? Or is it like something stuck in granite that it should be part of the common Arctic strategy, including what comes out of Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109202618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109202620	Thank you. So, first of all, I do not really know whether the Kingdom's Arctic strategy will also have a security policy aspect in it. I think the Minister can answer that better. But I certainly think that you will cooperate between Greenland and Denmark if there were some of those elements. It is, of course, difficult for me to stand here and say exactly what it will contain, but I can say what I think it should contain, and I have also made that clear to my fellow party members at home in Greenland, as well as helping to get a little fuzzy in the process that I think should go quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109202654	Then it's mr. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109202654-2	Thanks to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for a very good speech, and by the way, thank you for the work the rapporteur is doing together, the rapporteur, Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam from Greenland in the Danish Parliament. Of course, I also thought it was interesting to hear some suggestions from the rapporteur on what would be part of a common Arctic strategy for the Kingdom, and one of the things I noticed was the desire to strengthen the Arctic Council. Now Greenland has also gained a stronger position in the Arctic Council on behalf of the whole kingdom, both in terms of representation and in terms of signing agreements etc., which I of course also think is positive. But could the rapporteur elaborate a little further on what these are things the rapporteur could see needed to strengthen the Arctic Council?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109202801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109202802	Thank you very much, and thank you for your kind words and thanks for your cooperation. It is almost impossible to represent your country almost 4 000 km away from where you come from and where you represent your country. Well, it's a difficult task, and I think it's also important to say that we both have to build a bridge, that we should try to tell what it's like to come from Greenland, and that we should try to speak in a language that you also understand, and in a reality that you also understand. So it is an important task, but sometimes also a rather difficult task, I think to be so far away from home a large part of the time. Now I'm going home to Greenland here in a minute, so I'm really looking forward to that. In relation to the Arctic Council, you can just look at the Nordic Council here in the last few days, and there are many people who have opinions as to whether the Nordic Council is an effective organisation or whether you could do it better. But you can see how many employees there are in the Nordic Council, you can see how many initiatives are being taken after all, and how many pools are being set aside under the Nordic Council. Perhaps some of the same could be imagined during the Arctic Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109202910	Sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109202911	After all, I have worked for many years in the Nordic Council, and it is of course in many ways a strong construction. But there we also have debates on how you can further strengthen the Nordic Council construction. So even then, I do not think it has been answered as to what the Arctic Council could develop into, but I look forward to having the debate on how we can make the Arctic Council stronger and look forward to hearing more views on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109203003	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109203004	Thank you. One could take a subject such as mental health, for example. the many suicides we have in Greenland, which are also, as such, something we share with our kinsmen in Alaska and Nunavut. I think that if you had a pool for children and young people to prevent suicide in the Arctic, then it would be very relevant to make a joint effort in relation to it. The same is true of the climate. This really is something that we share in the Arctic, and it would be obvious to look at whether we could strengthen that work more. Outside investment and sustainable economic development are key areas in which concrete action could be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109203038	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line to Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109203057	Thank you for the floor. I will start by acknowledging that it was International Inuit Day a few days ago. Inuit is the Arctic people who are represented in the Kingdom, and it is therefore appropriate to recall that there is an international celebration which draws attention to the self-determination of Inuit and the strengthening of that voice. Siumut has always fought for the Arctic people within the kingdom to have the primary vote on the Arctic. Siumut has called for a more reasonable representation in the Arctic Council on several occasions, and therefore Siumut would also like to agree that social democracy has listened, both during group meetings, but also between governments and parliaments. For now Greenland has been given a much more prominent role in the Arctic Council, so it is moving in the right direction. We should not underestimate the importance of involvement and self-determination for cooperation between the various peoples we are in the Kingdom. It is an essential core value in democratic countries and should therefore not bypass the structural and administrative development of the empire. Right now we also have a self-government law that explains the cooperation between the responsibilities and the cooperation between Greenland and Denmark. Here it is described how governments should work together. However, there is no mention of how parliamentarians between countries should cooperate. There may also be challenges for Arctic cooperation, and this can be exemplified here in the negotiations with the Arctic capacity package. This was precisely one of the agreements made in a broad cooperation between the Danish Parliament's parties, but there was insufficient involvement of Greenlandic MPs, Naalaksuisut and Inatsisartut. That is why, in Siumut, we believe that a parliamentary council in Inatsisartut will benefit the democratic process in the kingdom. Such advice should be taken into account from the Greenland Parliament and sought advice from each time the Folketing has something to do with Greenland. This also applies when Parliament's parties are invited to negotiations on Greenland or the Arctic. By also inviting a parliamentary council, one will make sure that all Greenlandic parties are heard and not just the two who sit in the Folketing. All other things being equal, developments in the Arctic are running smoothly, and this also means that the need to ensure genuinely equal cooperation has only just begun, and here some parties see this development with more self-determination as a calaallite as a disaster. Here I think clearly that Denmark is at the forefront right now to show that we are not afraid of that democracy and that we are not afraid to discuss the challenges we have between us. Denmark thereby shows confidence in the original Arctic peoples, which, on the contrary, strengthens cooperation regardless of the desire for state formation. And that's why we shouldn't stop here. Today, for example, the Danish Kingdom has. an Arctic ambassador, and we also have an Arctic delegation from the Folketing. Denmark's Arctic Ambassador is also to represent Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark's interests in the Arctic towards the rest of the world, and given that Greenlanders are the Arctic people in the Kingdom, we therefore encourage Danish politicians to make sure that the possible next Arctic ambassador can also be represented by the Arctic people. Don't get me wrong: there is a positive development in the form of larger elbow spaces to Greenland. Among other things: welcomes and warmly welcomes Siumut's newly created contact committee between our governments to deal with foreign, defence and security policy. I would, however, like Parliament to stop pointing its finger at other countries, such as the United Kingdom. The United States and calls it charm offensive, where for that reason you also give more recognition and elbow space to Greenland. These positive developments in terms of more self-determination could have taken place without being provoked by external actors, and my point is made here. For please do not stop this good development, do not wait for the next external development, which is called charm offensive, for the Danish side to see a sense in making the Kingdom community more democratic and equal. Then it got ahead of us. It will only benefit our cooperation, but no legitimate cooperation with other countries in the Arctic on behalf of the kingdom, unless the Arctic people are sufficiently involved. Siumut believes that kalaallit can be more involved in the Kingdom's work in the Arctic, as our people can contribute with local knowledge and expertise. For example, a large group of people who are experts in driving dog sleds are also those who have trained the Danish population to drive dog sleds with the Sirius patrol. It is also worth mentioning that the inuit is therefore Greenlanders who can benefit from being involved in the exercise of sovereignty, for example. Northeast Greenland through a collaboration with the Sirius patrol. I am also looking forward to a continuation of the debate and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109203700	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109203702	I would like to know how Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam assesses the location of the Faroe Islands. So, the Faroe Islands are an Arctic state? Are the Faroese an Arctic people, and what role do they play in drawing up an Arctic strategy?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109203718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109203719	Firstly, it is worth recognising that both Greenland and the Faroe Islands are not recognised as states, and that is among other things. Therefore, we are discussing state formation. And in the kingdom only the Danish people and the Greenlandic people are recognised as a people, and so I cannot say anything about a Faroese people. But when it comes to the Arctic, it is clearly both Naalaksuisut's and Siumut's policy that Greenland is part of the Arctic. And then you can discuss whether a people who do not live in the Arctic can be recognized as an Arctic people, i.e. whether you are recognised as a people for yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109203802	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109203804	I just want to tell you, aren't the Faroese recognized as a people? I thought the Faroese were a people. You want to use the word state. I actually use it in recognition that when Denmark cooperates with the Faroe Islands and Greenland, we might as well refer to them as what they are, namely nations, people, and whatever it may be, within the community we now have in the kingdom community. But I would like to ask again because I did not get an answer to that: how does Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam view the Faroe Islands? Is it an Arctic state, is it an Arctic people? By what right do they participate in the preparation of an Arctic strategy? The rapporteur does not need to refer to all sorts of other parties. What does the rapporteur actually think?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109203835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109203837	First of all, I did not refer to other parties. I said very clearly that Siumut says that the Arctic people are the people who live in the Arctic, and that is the Greenlanders.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109203851	Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109203853	Thank you. Grundtvig says: "To a people they all hear/as they count themselves there." Of course the Faroese are a people. Well, that's perfectly obvious. I do not know what formalism or formality is being spoken of here, but of course the Faroese people are a people. What I would like to ask is: does the rapporteur see any differences in interests between Denmark and Greenland when it comes to an area or a specific case which might get into trouble when it comes to drawing up a common strategy for the whole realm? Are there any places where Greenland and Denmark have quite different interests?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109203936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109203937	Firstly, reference was made to international law. It is only recently, when it comes to the law of self-government, that the Greenlandic people were recognised by international law. My acquaintance has not been recognized elsewhere in the kingdom. Having said that, I would like to say to the question of the Arctic strategy that I think it is quite important to point out that it is my experience that all parties in Greenland somehow stood together and said: we have to have our own Arctic strategy before we make a common one. We should have had that debate a long time before. I think that in the end it is about more involvement, more understanding and more dialogue, and then you can always talk about what are some specific and concrete things that the individual parties might disagree on. But then you can always find something you share.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204031	Sjúrður Skaale
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204032	Thank you for that answer. I just think that sometimes we talk about different interests, but it is very rarely concrete. I personally have little difficulty in seeing what overall political ambitions or values should be different between what you want in Greenland and Denmark. I have never been specifically told what it should be or could be.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204057	I think we will also be discussing this when we see the Greenlandic Arctic strategy. In my understanding, it's not so much about what divides us. I think it is more about the structural aspects of the process of involvement in the construction of an Arctic strategy. It should have involved the various peoples much more, if you can put it that way, in the kingdom.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204123	Then it's mr. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204125	I would also like to thank Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam for, I think, good cooperation and also for a good speech. Now we had a discussion earlier on the whole process of creating the Arctic capacity package, where I also heard the rapporteur say that we would like to have been involved in a different way, and we must of course learn from that. However, I would like to hear the rapporteur's assessment of what has then come into the package. I think that there are many elements that will also be of benefit to Greenland. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204206-2	I personally think that this is a good agreement for Greenland. I think it is quite clear that this is an agreement that will benefit the Kingdom community as a whole, but also the way we act in the Arctic. On the other hand, I also think that involvement in this process could have meant that we didn't have to experience the scare if you could put it that way at home. I also thought that there was a great deal of understanding and dialogue both in Naalaksuisut and Inatsisartut, but I soon found out that was not the case when a lot of social media came out from parliamentarians, and what do I know? So what I'm trying to say is that we're just gonna be better together when there's this larger degree of involvement. And as far as I can see, the Secretary of Defense has also been much more involved with Naala Suisut and has since tried to do so with Inatsisartut, and it has also borne fruit in that we have seen a much more positive response to the policies that have come from the Minister for Defence since then.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204315	Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204315-2	I recognize that, too. What could perhaps be edifying is whether you could already say: Well there are things here that you can focus on from Greenland in the next rebirth, where we need to discuss what is needed of resources for the Arctic area. It could be that there were already requests of the kind that could be made here by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204347-2	Just one example of that is how one discussed that some of the operations could also have been done in a greater collaboration with e.g. Air Greenland, which also has a great deal of knowledge of how this is done with both the involvement of the population, which also increases the workforce, and the involvement of the operational systems that already exist, so that we do not have to spend so much financial resources on it. However, I think that it could have been even more involved in some of these debates before such a capacity agreement was drawn up, and whether or not it was Air Greenland can be said nothing about, but that is more the fact that that debate was also taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204428	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204430	It is just a comment on the rapporteur's remarks on the Sirius patrol of the Navy. It is not the case that Greenlandic young people are being kept away from it, but I know that not many people are looking for it, and in fact I do not think that I have ever heard of anyone who has sought it, and if it is that they are finally seeking it, then they will have to go through the same training that the Danish soldiers are going to have. So I just think it is essential to say that no one has tried to keep Greenlanders away from being part of the Sirius patrol. I think it would be kissed in the Navy if there were more Greenlanders who volunteered for military service at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204507	I just think it is important to point out that there are a lot of people who are otherwise interested in, for example. to come with the Sirius patrol, which is a dog sled in North East Greenland, but I also think it is important to recognise that when Greenland is a people to itself, one should also be allowed to do so under his own flag, and that is precisely one of the discussions we have had with, among others. The Minister for Defence, that is, that there must be greater recognition of it, and it must be made more accessible so that it can be done, rather than perhaps having to be more closely integrated into Denmark, before one can be allowed to maintain sovereignty over one's own country.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204551	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204551-2	I do not think it should be made more lenient. I think it should be strengthened. It is a patrol which has an incredibly hard education, and it is not possible to consider who it is that will report, whether it is Danes, Faroese or Greenlanders, because it is the best that comes along, and I think that is the way it must be in a kingdom community. I would also like a comment on this, which is why the military service is not being introduced in Greenland, just as it is in Denmark. It would be a good step towards also actively participating in defence policy that military service was made compulsory in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204631-2	First of all, perhaps it should be said that I clearly believe that Greenlandic young people, who are experts in dog sleds and can also run these sections, are some of the best at taking part in these actions, when they are on the ice themselves for several weeks, sometimes for months. As far as military service in Greenland is concerned, it was one of the things Siumut worked for, so it is perhaps a question for the current government party why this process has been stopped.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204709	Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204710	Thank you very much. Maybe it was an appropriate time. I just want to say thank you, first of all, for your cooperation and thank you for your speech. Then I would also say that Naalakkersuisoq Steen Lynge was in dialogue with the government then in relation to the Arctic Capacity Package, and I have certainly had the opportunity to have a meeting with Naalakkersuisoq specifically about the Arctic Capacity Package after I had talked to the Secretary of Defense. Then it is just important to say that Naala Suisut was involved and, of course, it must also be and very much like it even more in the future. A number of years ago, the IA tabled a motion for a resolution in Inatsisartut, which was about the fact that we wanted a foreign policy strategy and was then rejected by Siumut, who was then in charge of Naalaksususut. So I thought it was a shame, because if you had had that strategy, and if it had been updated so regularly, then there was also an opportunity that this process could go a little faster. But I think we all have an interest in pushing a little at home. So I hope the rapporteur would like to do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204812	If you take the first question about a foreign policy strategy, there were, as far as I know, some things that did not want to make that agreement with IA at the time. Having said that, however, we think that there should be an Arctic strategy, and we think it is quite clear that an Arctic strategy should have been drawn up a long time ago, that is, with greater involvement of Greenland in the work that was also drawn up by Denmark. Then, unfortunately, I forgot the second question, so you can repeat that if that's what you have the opportunity to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204851	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204852	I repeat a few other things. In fact, I was alone in thinking that an Arctic ambassador should of course have knowledge of the Arctic and would very much like to come from Greenland, and it was in fact all parties in Greenland who disagreed with me at the time. I just think it's nice that Siumut is willing to push, because of course we have competent people from Greenland who can also perform that function. So that's just nice to hear. Then I know that the Minister for Defence has also said that you would like to have the Greenlandic flag on the uniforms, and it is actually the Greenlandic young people in Greenland who have said: we are happy with the military service. We really want it. So it is also quite hopeful that it will fall into place.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109204934	Well Siumut has always believed that Greenland must have more self-determination in all aspects of foreign policy and that Greenland must always be involved when it comes to the Arctic. Among other things: With the Arctic delegation, Siumut also thought it was one of the most important things to have either the Presidency or the Vice-Presidentship for Greenland, but there was already agreement among all others that this was not the case. We clearly believe that there are many things we can work together on. We just think that this dialogue among us is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109205011	Thank you. Then it's Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109205012	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. Thank you, too, for your cooperation and commitment on a daily basis. It is a pleasure to work with the rapporteur. Now Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen came before me a little, but it was actually to come to the defence minister's defense. For I actually think, both in relation to the Faroe Islands and to the Greenlandic Government, that there was a great deal of backflow and involvement in connection with this Arctic Capacity Package. Whether that was enough can always be discussed, i.e. whether there is enough at parliamentary level. I personally tried to return to our sister party as well. However, there was a great deal of dialogue, which is why I would just like to say that there are also two to tango. It might also be that because you have not actually been used to being as involved as work is being done in these years, there could be some processes that got better in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, compared to getting systematized how to get the parliaments informed about the things you talk to the government in Denmark about. Is this something you might consider looking at in Greenland too?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109205118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109205119	First of all, thank you for the nice words. I also think it is quite clear that there should be enhanced parliamentary cooperation between the countries. But having said that, it is also good that you come up with the subject of defence, because that is exactly what I unfortunately did not just mention before. You are absolutely right that the Secretary of Defense has tried to do her part, but as Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen also said, I and both Greenlandic MPs have talked to the then Secretary of State Steen Lynge, and during those conversations it was also said that this was not really an involvement in negotiations. This was just an enlightenment: that's how far we've come, I just want you to know that. There was great dissatisfaction with this, both from Inatsisartut's side, but also from Naalaksuisut's side. It was a great surprise that the agreement was confirmed before advice had been given with neither Naala Suisut nor Inatsisartut. And I just thought we could do better. But otherwise, you're right that the Secretary of Defense is doing his part, also in relation to the flag we were talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109205230	Here you go, Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109205231	Thank you for your answer. Of course, there are also some things that can come back, but it was also actually just to get clarification right must be right that you could hear it a little bit, as if there was almost nothing. I think there was also a process in which there was some replacement, no, perhaps there was not right there, but there was an effort that I certainly understood it to report back. But it obviously sounds as if there is something better to be done, and we must then try to take a process within the defence committee, in other words how it can be done better some other time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109205256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109205256-2	I only welcome this because when I raise these issues, it is not just to point the finger, but it is to find solutions. So that is why we are talking about a parliamentary council being one of the solutions. We also think quite clearly that what has been brought up for many years is relevant, namely that at least the Greenlandic parties who sit in the Folketing are invited to the different settlements, especially when it comes to the Arctic or Greenland. So we can certainly sit together and find some organisational or administrative structural changes that make it easier.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109205331	Sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109205332	Thank you. In relation to the rapporteur's suggestion that we could involve Greenlandic young people in the Sirius patrol, I would like to remind you politely that people who have good civilian skills are not simply taken into a military unit from one day to the next. However, for this very reason, I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work done by the rapporteur's party, particularly in relation to the possibility of serving on military service locally in Greenland. It was very close to getting started. Then there was a change of government. I think that would have been a very good way to enter, for example. The Sirius patrol for young Greenlanders, many of whom have been happy to serve as military service in Denmark, but would probably also be even happier for the possibility of serving as military service in Greenland. So it was just an invitation to the rapporteur to take it back to her party in Greenland, to a great extent also to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, whose party has now suspended it. I think it is a shame for the young Greenlanders who are not given the opportunity to do so, and I hope that this is something that will be opened up with the new political leadership that is in Greenland. So it was actually just a comment from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109205433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109205434	Thank you for your comment. I also think it is incredibly important that we have dialogues about how we then take into account these frictions that are also happening, i.e. disagreements, either within Greenland or between the Kingdom Community, when there is such a subject. That is also why we lack some kind of structure, which means that different parties from here also understand the views of all parties from Greenland. After all, it is only through understanding that we can actually move on to a solution. When I talk to people in Greenland, there has also been a great deal of concern about all these giant military ships that are constantly sailing back and forth very close to Nuuk and flying the Danish flag. A lot of people see that as something a little scary, if you can put it that way. And when you've asked the people who are patrolling, they said they thought it was to create security. So there is some kind of misunderstanding that sometimes arises. But I also think it is important to point out that this is also where we are another people, which we have to take into account in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109205541	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we can move on to Mr. Edmund Joensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109205553	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the statement on the Arctic. Concern is something that follows us all our lives and that we'll probably never get away from. As a child, most concerns are enough about friends, as a young person, of course love is the source of the greatest concerns, and as an adult you just care about most of it. That's the way life is, and that's the way it's always gonna be. But since I was a child, a young man and now a grown-up some might say "half-old" there has been an extra layer on these ordinary concerns, and that is the climate and climate change. I know that is a great deal with our young people today, and it is a concern that I understand, because the experts do not predict a good future for our future generations if we do not do something drastic about the climate change that we are already seeing the consequences of around the world, especially in the Arctic region. Last month I attended the Arctic Circle in Reykjavik and let me first say, as has been said many times before: how nice it was to be able to assemble physically and meet people again after corona. Over 1,400 politicians, experts, students and young people from all over the world came to talk about the Arctic, challenges and opportunities in the Arctic region. The topics at the conference ranged from food to safety and about the sea, which opens up and forms new shipping routes, and of course also about major power tensions in the Arctic. However, at the top of the agenda, which marked all the debates, climate change and the future that we could face if we did not succeed in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It is also the focal point of my input to today's debate. There can no longer be many, across organisations and different political beliefs, who doubt that climate change must be taken seriously, that every day counts in the race to reverse the course, and that we must all do our bit to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The climate crisis is global, but it hits locally. Just in the last year, there have been massive floods in Germany and Belgium and extreme heat waves in southern Europe, and in the Arctic area, where temperatures are rising more than anywhere else, we see that climate change is changing the conditions of nature and people violently. In Greenland it is already clear: the seals and polar bears have lost their territory, and the prisoners and fishermen have changed conditions due to the withdrawal of the ice. In the Faroe Islands the impact is not yet visible, as it is in Greenland, but it can have major consequences for society if the sea and current conditions change. As you know, the sea is the basis of our livelihood. The climate crisis is global and must also be resolved globally. We all have a responsibility to do our part to resolve the crisis, but I believe that, as part of the Arctic region, we have a special responsibility. That is why I am delighted that the Faroese Home Rule Government is currently working on high pressure to create a new ambitious climate policy. The former climate policy expired in 2020 and it is therefore urgent to have a new negotiation in place. It's on the stairs, I know. In 2020, the Faroe Islands entered the Paris Agreement, and it is very welcome that Greenland also joined the agreement during COP26 in Glasgow. Approx. 100 years we've used fossil fuels here on our planet. They have done us very well and have been a great player in relation to the progress we have made for humanity this past century. But it is frightening to think that in the same 100 years we have started to break down the same world that we have spent thousands of years building. Fortunately, we are not there yet, but I am afraid that it will happen if we leave it alone. Therefore, I would like to conclude my speech today with a quote from the speech made by the world-renowned British naturalist and television personality, David Attenborough, to world leaders during COP26 in Glasgow. He said: " If we are a strong enough force to destabilise the planet by working separately, then we should be able to save it by working together. Attenborough is absolutely right. If we want to leave a healthy and viable world and a viable Arctic to our descendants, we must set ambitious targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and, of course, to comply with them. It is not an easy task, but it can be done if we work together. Let me therefore make it clear that it is important that we deal with all aspects of the Arctic. This concerns security in the region, the importance of respecting the wishes of indigenous peoples and, last but not least, the Arctic remains a sustainable region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109210352	Thank you. There are brief comments, first from Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109210354	Earlier this evening, there has been discussion about whether the Faroese are even a people. Then I'd like to ask Mr. Edmund Joensen: Are the Faroese a people? That's one. The second is: Are the Faroe Islands an Arctic nation?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109210408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109210409	Thank you for the question. Of course the Faroese are a people. The Faroe Islands are a people with their own language and the peculiarities of a people who have lived in the Faroe Islands for 1,000 years. The second question was about the Arctic. The Faroe Islands are very small above water • 1,400 km 2 But we are far from being as Arctic as Greenland is. I'll tell you what. But we are also in the Arctic area, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109210521	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109210522	Yeah, because it's not like that whether you're more or less arctic, because Greenland is incredibly far, isn't it? So you don't get more or less Arctic, the longer you get up. So I just want to ask you one more question. Edmund Joensen himself that the Faroe Islands are what we can call an Arctic nation?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109210539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109210539-2	But there I must be honest: we have not done so in the past, that is to say to count the Faroe Islands as an Arctic nation or unity. We're in the Atlantic Ocean.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109210603	Thank you. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109210609	Thank you, and thank you for a good speech, where climate change filled a lot, and thank you for focusing on it today. I want to ask you about some of the things we've talked about in the past, primarily with a focus on Greenland and Denmark, i.e. this need for further communication between us at parliamentary level to solve these many problems and this more complex world and to be able to find the common solutions and stand together about them. From the rapporteur's perspective and from the Faroese perspective, what is the need that has been talked about or spoken of both by Greenlandic and Danish politicians in relation to having a closer and more formal dialogue across the different parliaments?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109210655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109210657	Thank you for the question. I must start by saying that I have been a great advocate of finding a way to talk, and I am pleased that the government and the national government in the Faroe Islands and Greenland have now found a way to communicate and have made agreements at government level. I have always advocated that we should also do the same at parliamentary level, i.e. that the parliaments should talk, for example. The Foreign Policy Name here in the Danish Parliament and in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland that you talk all the time. Because that's the only way I think we can find the melody in the kingdom community. In this way we can sense what is moving in each country and what we can agree on and what we need to discuss further in order to agree on it all together. It's the only way, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109210814	Thank you. Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109210816	Thank you and thank you for those comments. So it can be said that there are at least votes here in the Danish Parliament based in all three countries who consider that this has something to do with it. So I'm thinking, I guess it's just that we're working on it. Now we have both a minister and a chairman of the Danish Parliament here, so I think it is a good forum for this to be addressed, and I hope that together we can work on these ideas with the rapporteur and myself and other interested parties in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109210845	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109210846	Thank you. This question is very important. After all, we have had many reports, and in these reports we have also seen that when we talk about major power politics, it is not the Russians who are the greatest danger. But the greatest danger is especially if specialists have said that we cannot find agreement in the Kingdom community. This is our greatest danger.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109210922	Sir. Edmund Joensen. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109210928	Thank you. I don't know what news I can tell you. Why do you have to write a new novel when Dostoyevsky has already written crime and punishment, and when Tolstoy has written war and peace? Anything else to say? There may not be, but I will try to say a few things. The statement we have before us has a lot of information in it, but I would like to say to the Minister that there was more policy in it. It is very lexical, there are a lot of facts, but perhaps there could be more politics in the next time. I don't think there's so much difference between the paper we got last year and what we got this year. That is why very few people have taken that paper as their starting point. I would also like to thank the government for the openness and involvement of the Arctic policy approach. A little has been teased about the importance of the order in which you are speaking and who writes some papers, but it is also important because it sends out some signals that are also binding. And when it comes to setting up the much-mentioned radar on the Faroe Islands, it is the right way to do it when you say: This is what we want; this is what we think is needed; but the decision is in the Faroe Islands. Perhaps the Faroe Islands could be involved before the process, but that decision is taken where it happens is incredibly important. Many people have wondered why we do not have a common strategy for the whole realm, and I think that is a pity too. I do not see where there are fundamental differences of interest or value between Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland. I think that Denmark, whether you like it or not, has the largest economic, diplomatic and political muscle, the Faroe Islands are on the threshold between the Arctic and Europe, and Greenland is of course far, by far the most important country with the huge rural area. The three elements together should provide a synergy effect in which I see obvious benefits. One thing that can make things complicated is that part of the kingdom, Denmark, is in the EU, while the other two countries are outside. I have said this before: we saw it, for example. in 2013, when the EU sanctioned the Faroe Islands and Denmark were forced as an EU member to sanction part of its own empire, and this was an absurd situation, but it was something that Denmark was forced to join the EU. We have talked about the joint communication, that is to say the proposal for an Arctic strategy, which the Commission has put forward, in which, among other things, there is one. We are talking about working to obtain an international agreement to ban the extraction of gas and oil and coal in the Arctic. If it were to become a reality, if it were to become a policy of the European Union, we would have a division in which Denmark imposed on Greenland and the Faroe Islands that they should not extract raw materials, and then we would have a conflict. Whether it makes sense to extract raw materials or not, we would have such an ideological, formal conflict. This is very unfortunate, so I hope that Denmark will do its part to prevent it from becoming the EU's policy. I also think it would be a very large and unnecessary provocation to Russia to adopt this sort of thing in the European Union. I also think, if you look at it in terms of energy, that stopping the extraction of gas is a major mistake. This is now seen when there is an energy conflict, an energy crisis, for example. in Britain. Unfortunately, we have not yet got there that sun and wind can meet the needs. Gas emits much, much less CO2 coal, perhaps only half. Coal is the worst, then comes oil, and of the fossil fuels gas makes the least damage. And if we ban or stop the extraction of gas, we will be using more oil or more coal, and that is not a good thing. Many times it is that the best is the worst enemy of the good, and that is why it is a mistake, you make in many places, that you become so ideological that you move from the facts to the purely ideological, and it can do great damage, including to the environment. Unfortunately, gas is part of the solution for many years to come. When it comes to the security of the Arctic, the Prime Minister has said many times that it is becoming more difficult to distinguish between acquired and common matters, because the matters taken over by the Faroe Islands are defined as security matters. For example: We saw it the other day in a case of systematic sea survey around the Faroese. The area has been taken over by the Faroe Islands, but when some surveys had to be published, the government felt that there were security risks. Elements of the card authority in the Faroe Islands are therefore security policy, which, according to the Takeover Act, cannot be taken over. Then we would have taken over an area, we thought, but not yet, because there were security policy elements, and then the government intervened anyway and said: you cannot do that anyway, because that is what we define as security policy. There is a great need for us to clarify what is a security policy and what is not. In the Faroe Islands you are very aware of this and you will avoid that areas that you have taken over are so moved back to Denmark because they are security policy. A contact committee is to be established between Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland, and it is very important that some lines are laid down on how to define the different areas. There is also a need for more clear command lines to be placed in that committee in the state as a whole. If we take the example of the financing of airports in Greenland at the time, then the Home Rule Government of Greenland did everything you had to do. They had negotiations with Chinese investors, everything was completely by book, everything was open, but suddenly the Danish government intervened and said: You cannot do that anyway; it is not because you have done something wrong, but it is because it is the wrong people who do it. In other words, it was China that did it, and they must not do so, and then you intervened, and then you took over China's role or place in that debate. It came about very late it was such a panic solution that came just before closing time. With regard to the expansion of telecommunications in the Faroe Islands, it was the same. We had negotiations with Huawei, and it went well, quite openly, but then suddenly there is a stir in it, and then the Chinese and then the American and then the Chinese and then the American ambassador to the Faroe Islands, and then there are senators coming to the Faroe Islands, five senators from the United States, and they talk about all those with whom they can talk, and they say: "This must not be done, you cannot do this." And they ask, Who are we going to talk to? In the Faroe Islands they are told that if it is a security policy matter, as we say, it is the Danish Government, because it is their responsibility. But in Denmark they say: This is business policy, and it is the responsibility of the Faroe Islands. And then it was nobody's responsibility. And then it ended up with the head of a company becoming a politician who had to make a political decision to opt out of a partner that you had had for many years and that you had plans with, and choose another one. It goes without saying, as it did in Denmark, that it was a commercial decision, but there were very, very clear political undertones in that decision. But no one took the ball. There were completely unclear command lines in the Danish state. Neither the Chinese Embassy nor the American Embassy nor Ericsson nor Huawei knew who had the political responsibility for this. We must correct this and, of course, we believe, as in the case of radar, that decisions of this kind must be taken in the Faroe Islands, even if it is a security policy. Because it is only by giving the Faroe Islands responsibility so that you can take responsibility and get the security policy responsibility and the sense of responsibility and make the decisions that come from a sense of responsibility that you get there. I myself think, and I have also said this publicly, that the debate on security policy in the Faroe Islands is sometimes a little marked by the fact that we have not had the responsibility for so many years. So the more responsibility you get, the more responsible you get. Those were the words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109211839	There are a number of questions. First, it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109211841	Thank you very much for your speech and also thank you for your cooperation in everyday life. I would just like to return to the oil and gas issue, which the rapporteur also had in mind at the beginning. So, I fully understand that there is something in principle that you want to decide for yourself when you can extract it and when you cannot. I can easily see that discussion. But I also have to say that if it is in relation to the green transition that is so insanely important to all of us, then there is something about us not continuing to pick up oil and gas. And it also takes some investment in that infrastructure to pull that gas up, and it's still not super good with gas. We have to go, for example. wave energy. The Faroe Islands have some big, delicious waves, you have to say, and there are plenty of them. That's one of the things you can really invest more in. So in relation to some of those alternative forms of energy, isn't it really more interesting to have a look at it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109211941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109211943	Absolutely, 100%. And in relation to oil: Keep it in the ground! But the problem is that renewable green energy sources still cannot provide stable power. That is why there is an energy crisis in Europe today, especially in Britain. And there is gas part of the solution, not part of the problem. The fact that you go from using only oil to gas in an intermediate period while developing green energy is a necessity. Because if you don't do it, if you cut yourself off from gas, you're going to use more oil and coal that's not good for anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109212018	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109212019	Yes, but if you spend too much resources on investing in gas extraction now too, then you delay the time when you get to the one hundred percent renewable energy sources, which are, of course, the way we should go. So there is clearly a dilemma in that, I have to say. Well, that's one of the things you're facing. So it is just an appeal that the rapporteur should at least have that perspective too, namely that I think that we should all focus on some of the alternative forms of energy together. I think we agree on that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109212047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109212048	Absolutely. And I think it is fantastic that there are so many large funds that are now moving their investments from oil production to renewable energy production. It's quite obvious. In the Faroe Islands, 20 billion may have been spent. kr. to look for oil and not one kilowatt energy has been produced by it. If you'd spent the 20 billion. kr. On producing green energy, you would have produced something, wouldn't you? It is a question of moving the large investments from oil to green energy, that is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109212118	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109212119	Earlier this evening, doubts have been raised as to whether the Faroese people are a people. I'd like to hear Mr. Knox. Sjúrður Skaale's assessment of whether the Faroese are a people. That's one. The second is the degree of how much you are part of the Arctic. If you end up defining yourself as a non-Arctic state, what role do you have in the Arctic Council, why be a member of the Arctic Council, and why is it important to speak second in the Arctic Council? And what is one's role in the development of an Arctic strategy? It's of course, depending on whether you're an Arctic nation or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109212147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109212147-2	I am not terribly concerned about formalities when it comes to people, nations and so on. I think Grundtvig says: "To a people they all hear/like themselves do so. Well, a people is not a formal legal size, it's a cultural size, it's a sense of self, it's how you perceive yourself. That is what is crucial. And, of course, the Faroese people are a people; that is quite obvious. We have our own culture, language and our own area. We meet all the criteria, too, formally to be a people. Then I do not know which body or forum should recognise it. It's just for me, it doesn't matter. It's about feeling it yourself. The Faroe Islands are defined within the Arctic circle and we are on the threshold between Europe and the Arctic. Our sea area extends far into the Arctic, and the climate up in the mountains is an Arctic climate. So in this way the Faroe Islands are an Arctic country.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109212251	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109212252	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale gave a very fine and, I think, nuanced review of the process of financing and construction of airports in Greenland and Huawei's desire to provide telecommunications in the Faroe Islands. But what was the conclusion? I'm in on the questions that Mr. Sjúrður Skaale travelled around the process. There is every reason to put your finger on it. But what is the conclusion? Was it good or bad that you ended up going in and financing airports with the 700 million? kr. kr.? And was it the right decision to say no to Huawei? Or would Mr. Sjúrður Skaale would rather have had a collaboration with the Chinese?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109212331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109212331-2	I think that in both cases the conclusion was very good. I am very sceptical about China's Belt and Road Initiative, i.e. their huge investment in infrastructure all over the world, their Arctic Silk Road, etc. I am very sceptical about that. I also thought it was a very good thing that in the Faroe Islands Ericsson was chosen instead of Huawei. But the problem is that it was very unclear who was responsible for it. And then it ended up with a director of a company making a political decision. It was wrong. I think it is clear that responsibility should lie in the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109212407	Sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109212407-2	Thank you very much, too. Sjúrður Skaale for a very good collaboration and for the work done here in the Folketing. I can say the same thing to Mr. Knox. Edmund Joensen. And I share many of the good points, I think, which Mr. Sjúrður Skaale has come from the platform. And yes, are the Faroe Islands a people? Now we know from the rapporteur that there are also trolls in the Faroe Islands, but I still have the impression that the Faroe Islands are a people. But in order to stay in the jargon here, where time is a little late, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks that the SF is a party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109212455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109212456	Laughter There are many who will think that SF is the social democracy's tail, not the whole dog, but the tail of the dog. That's something you're teasing about. I do not want to go into purely Danish domestic politics, but I believe that SF is its own party with its own history, its own identity, and that is why I would say that you are a party, but you are not a people. One lacks one's own language, I would say. You have your own culture, but you lack your own language and your own defined geographical area.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109212537	This is how you can get around in a statement. We thank the rapporteur. Now I'm looking out. I do not think we have forgotten any rapporteurs. That is why it is now the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109212553	First of all, thank you for a committed and constructive debate. There were a lot of good comments. Although the time has advanced, I would like to make a few comments on today's debate. I believe that it has confirmed once again how much political support there is for Arctic status as a major foreign and security policy priority and discussion. I think it is clear to everyone, including in the debate, that both Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands have core interests at stake when we talk about these issues. Personally, I am very pleased that this is the way it is. The statement is valuable because it clarifies the constructive international cooperation that is taking place on a daily basis. We must remember this in the Arctic, not least the total commitment of the Kingdom across the kingdoms and the many authorities that have activities in the region. So far, as several speakers have said, the statement has served as a reporting on the Kingdom's Arctic strategy from 2011 to 2020. There has been a new Arctic strategy over a long period of time throughout the Kingdom community, and I would like to touch on this first. Both up to and during the Covid 19 pandemic it has been possible to implement, I would like to emphasise, a broad constructive involvement of experts, civil society, interest groups, business and parliamentarians across the board. And I would also like to thank you from this point of view for the very active participation that has been all the way through. A great deal of work has been put into formulating a new strategy from all sides. Then it is also true that in the spring of 2021 there was a change of government in Greenland. This has meant, of course, that a period of reflection has been needed to revisit its Arctic priorities and visions. I think that is quite natural, and many have mentioned it. The new Naala Suisut wants to draw up a strategy of its own first. I respect this process, of course, and I also look forward to further dialogue. I hope we all do that, because I think it is important that we stand together in this. Working on this common platform for our international Arctic work is therefore temporarily paused, but this does not mean that we will not come back and have a common strategy. I am optimistic about getting the country a broad foundation for our international Arctic action, a basis in which we must all reflect. I would rather take the time necessary for us to have the right strategy. In this context, work has also continued to develop what was called an up-to-date and inclusive cooperation across the kingdoms. There are code words for government equality, trust, respect, involvement. It has been from the outset in relation to cooperation. Against this background, the Government, the Home Government of the Faroe Islands and the Naalaksuisut agreed here at the extended Kingdom meeting at Marienborg on 10 June that we should set up this joint contact committee at government level. Several people have mentioned it. It will ensure a broad dialogue on foreign, security and defence policy issues with particular relevance to the Faroe Islands and Greenland and build on these principles of equal, close, respectful cooperation across the kingdoms. I think this is really important at some point, and it reflects the recent debate where, for example, it is also important. Security and security policy are spreading over many areas because we live in a more complicated world. There is new technology and a new geopolitical reality in which we find ourselves. I think it is very important that we come even closer together on security, foreign and defence policy issues too. I fully agree with what was said, namely that it is also a question of all of us taking responsibility for the security on which our countries are based, both Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark. I just want to put it this way: in 2019 we celebrated the 70th anniversary of NATO cooperation. Transatlantic cooperation has been the foundation of our security and, therefore, the economy and freedom and prosperity that have made us the rich countries and nations that we are, also in a global context. We must never take this for granted or ever override it. Therefore, it is important for the government that we have close, good and strong cooperation in the Kingdom community and, of course, also with our partners across the Atlantic. It was mentioned that the statement is spreading over many areas, and one of the things we have also mentioned was the Arctic Council, and I would just like to mention it because I thought it was really gratifying that in May we not only received a ministerial statement I would just like to note in parentheses that it did not succeed in 2019, but that it succeeded here in 2021; and that there has also been a change of government in the United States, where climate has been high on the agenda, but also a vision from the Arctic Council towards 2030. And I think it is important to emphasise the whole fact that the cooperation that is taking place in the Arctic Council helps to maintain the focus on low-voltage in the Arctic, so that all the areas of cooperation that you have climate, sustainable development, economic development and the fact that the 4 million people living in the Arctic are at the heart of a peaceful and stable area, and there is, in my view, a key actor in the Arctic Council. We must support the objective of low voltage, several have referred to the Ilulissat Declaration, which was reaffirmed in 2018, and it is important that we focus here. Here I just want to say: remember now what kind of reality we are a part of. So, NATO and our defence alliance are a defence alliance, and we all have a responsibility to secure and defend and shield ourselves from various threats that could destroy the security on which our freedom is based. This also means that when Russia is arming itself in the Arctic region, including with an armament that is not only defensive but also offensive, we must of course be able to take our measures so that we always have our security robust and clear, in case someone would try to challenge our security in the North Atlantic, in the Arctic and transatlantic. So I would just like to stress that basically. I would like to say that a great many people have mentioned various things, and I will take it first from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, who had many important things, but on the subject of the rights of indigenous peoples I will say again: I think that the fact that we have a very good cooperation in the kingdom is something we take for granted, but we are in international contexts frontrunners of the rights of indigenous peoples. Denmark gives 1 million. kr. Every year to ICC Greenland, for example, and Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen herself raised the question of doing even more. I think this is very important and I share Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's point that we need to do even more to make the work we are doing for the rights of indigenous peoples visible in a situation where, among many rights, it is some of the things that may be under pressure in a world where autocracy and anti-democratic values are unfortunately gaining ground in some places, and that is where I think it is really important. Mrs Flyvholm is asking a little about the role of NATO in the Arctic. I would like to say again here that we must remember that Greenland and the Faroe Islands and the whole kingdom have always been part of NATO's responsibility. It has been since its foundation. That is why there is a clear expectation, when changes are taking place I mentioned Russia earlier that we in the Kingdom also contribute to our own security and the security of the alliance. This is also true in the Arctic region. So it is not NATO or the kingdom that is aggressive or is armored. It is a question of reacting and ensuring what has always been the foundation of the alliance that has enabled us to live in freedom and security and that we take our NATO responsibilities on board. Having said that, I would like to stress how important it is that we focus on low-voltage and that we work on the basis of the Ilulissat Declaration, which is also mentioned here. Research: I just want to mention it because more people have been talking about Arctic Research and the kingdom's focus on this area. It is clear from the statement, and if you look at page 15, I think it is, you see that there is agreement on the allocation of the research reserve from 2021 that 170 million has been allocated. kr. for the sub-financing of a new ocean-going research vessel, etc. I fully agree that research and research work are important, and that is one of the things the government is also focusing on together with the parties that take responsibility here. So to what was said about involvement and how we work: well, remember that we have good and trusting and respectful cooperation between the governments of the three countries; this was asked by among others. Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. In other words, as parliaments, we can work together more, and it is not for me, as Foreign Minister, to comment on it. I think that the more we stand together and I share that, I think, the emphasis on it, and thank you for it in this Kingdom community in the challenges we face in the world of foreign and security policy and geopolitical policy, including in the Arctic area, the stronger we are each. Closer cooperation at government level is therefore essential, and I would welcome even closer cooperation, including between parliamentarians. One of the things we did in connection with the creation of work on the Arctic strategy is, after all, to have consultations with parliaments. We should have actually met physically in Greenland in March last year; unfortunately we did not succeed because of the covid-19, it was not because of lack of will, so that is one of the things I would like to emphasise. Does that contrast with making your own strategies? I just want to make an important point here. We must remember that we are also a kingdom community where Greenland and the Faroe Islands have taken over a number of responsibilities themselves, and it is quite natural that here we seek greater international cooperation, visibility, investment, trade, etc., and that is why I think it is quite natural that we should make our own strategies. It does not have to be contrary to a common strategy for the Kingdom, which, of course, focuses primarily on international Arctic cooperation, because we share that view, it is our common platform, so these things can go hand in hand. On the contrary, I would warn against those who put up some contradiction, and the government strongly supports that Greenland and the Faroe Islands both gain greater visibility, a larger international contact area and are more active in the world, and we support the various actions to this, including those of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's just to emphasize this part here. I know it has been a long evening and there are many things I could comment on, but I would like to say in conclusion that I hope we can continue the debate. In relation to the Arctic issue and what we are also doing on the part of the Kingdom, one of the things that has been revealed is how much we are doing on the part of the Kingdom in the Arctic area, that is, what we have of activities, and I think it was 1.7 billion. kr. alone for one year in addition to the various block grants that we spend on activities in the Arctic area. We can see that the European Union also strengthens their commitment and, in cooperation with Naalaksuisut, will open an office in Greenland, in Nuuk, to make visible the work you are doing here. A total of 1.7 billion has been set aside. kr. over seven years on the part of the European Union, and it is budgetary support, to strengthen cooperation, and that is very good. The United States, as several have mentioned, has also contributed and reopened their consulate and has set aside some money for cooperation, and we support this because it is something that the Greenland Government is also focusing on. So summa summarum, I think we have had a very good debate, and I also welcome the fact that Mr. Edmund Joensen as a mature man jumps out as a climate champion, I think one could say. Sir. Edmund Joensen gave an excellent speech about how important the climate is in this discussion here, how we all have a responsibility, no matter what generation we belong to. I fully agree, and I really think that when you look at the huge impact climate change has on the Arctic, not only temperature increases, but also for the living conditions of people living in the Arctic, for wildlife, etc., it is something where we can use these climate change so much to show why the world needs us to act now and live up to the Paris Agreement the sooner, the better. So thank you for the fine climate speech, too, from Mr. Edmund Joensen's side, I am very pleased. Thanks also to all the rapporteurs, and I am also looking forward to the further debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109213954	We'll continue with that now. First, it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109213957	Thank you very much for your statement and also for many of the initiatives being taken here in the Arctic area. I also hope that we will be able to make much progress on the work in the near future. What I really want to ask the Foreign Minister is again the low-voltage issue and what Denmark's role is here. For now the Foreign Minister says that NATO is a defence alliance, and that is, of course, very good. However, I doubt that it would be entirely the assessment of the Russian side if you started seeing a large number of more NATO activities in the Arctic. And that is what it is all about, that is to say, assessing: how are our actions actually perceived? It is, of course, crucial that we think about it both ways, so that we do not set off some kind of arms race. So I would just like to ask the Foreign Minister: will an increased NATO presence in the Arctic contribute to low-voltage? I find that hard to see. But what does the Secretary of State think?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109214102	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109214103	I think it is really important to make it absolutely clear that what NATO and our transatlantic alliance are based on is defence and deterrence, and it is also, of course, in dialogue that unfortunately the dialogue with Russia has been hampered by their actions over the last few years, and what is also important for our Arctic/North Atlantic area is that our ability to defend ourselves and discourage others from threatening our security is intact. Well, the musket nest applies, for example. In the Arctic region too, four out of the five Arctic coastal states, including the Kingdom of Denmark, are NATO members, which is why it is natural and has always been the case that we are united on security here. It is not the case that we have to talk about the high north and that NATO has its own presence. But you are there because of the NATO countries, including the Kingdom, and I would like to warn those who would say that we should not take our responsibility on board, that I very much disagree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109214209	Thank you. Eva Flyvholm, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109214210	However, in my view there is a very, very significant difference between the presence of the countries that are coastal states and the fact that NATO is beginning to play a greater role. So, of course, you also have to think about what kind of exercises you are running, etc., but there is something quite different, and there I actually think I see what the Foreign Minister is saying as saying that it is quite natural that NATO is interested and so on, as a little new tones. And I would just like to warn you that this is something we have to take very seriously, how we actually and in practice maintain this low voltage.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109214247	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109214248	Yes, we maintain low-voltage by focusing partly on what is going on in the Arctic Council and the whole constructive cooperation, and partly on that. by greater monitoring, greater presence, knows what is going on in the Arctic region and the area that is common responsibility also for our own security, and to which we as part of the NATO alliance are committed. And we're not the ones who armed up the military. It is Russia that has reopened some of the bases closed at the end of the Cold War, where there are offensive capabilities, and we must be able to deal with that. Otherwise, we do not have a credible defence alliance, and I hope that Enhedslisten will support that as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109214327	Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109214328	Thank you to the Secretary of State. As I mentioned in my speech, we are, of course, very pleased with the cooperation with the United States, including military cooperation, and also that the United States is now establishing a consulate. But we are also a little nervous about whether the United States will then start using our hospitality to just go one step too far and start conducting a foreign policy dialogue directly with Nuuk outside Copenhagen. I've noticed that the Consulate in Nuuk almost gets a staffing that's stronger than the Richman's maning in Nuuk. So I want to hear what the Minister is doing to signal very clearly to the Americans that the political dialogue that is going on in the field of security and foreign policy must be maintained through Copenhagen and that we should not start driving directly through Nuuk or this project-making, where we are quietly buying goodwill in order to exploit perhaps some of the scepticism that may be with the national community in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109214423	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109214423-2	Firstly, I am absolutely convinced that the United States and others are fully aware of the construction of the Commonwealth. I find it gratifying that the Americans are reopening their consulate and setting aside some money for greater cooperation between the United States and Greenland and, moreover, supporting the Greenlandic Government in it, just as the European Union does, in other words, opening an office in Nuuk. And from the External Action Service we also have as part of strengthening the Arctic strengthened not only our own here in Denmark, but also in Greenland. We also have an employee in Nuuk from the External Action Service, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So I think it reflects the developments in the Arctic and we should all invest in it, and I am glad that with our closest security allies, who are the United States of America, we can have this good and close cooperation. So I'm not facing challenges of the nature that Mr. Marcus Knuth is talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109214522	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109214525	I mentioned it in my rapporteur's speech, but now I think I will say it here too. Well, I think it's a good step the government has taken and it was done at the right time to say to Greenland and the Faroe Islands that we have to re-engage the team when you meet up in the Arctic Council. And it's a good idea to make the contact council. So unconditional praise from here. I am thinking more of the fact that sometimes in cooperation it is as if it happens in small jerks important, yet small jerks. I wonder whether it would soon be time for us to redefinate more fundamentally what the three parts of the Kingdom community are like together. Could it soon be time for us to say that we will now simply look more fundamentally at how, with respect for the Constitution, we can nevertheless make the great move, the great approach, the great new redefining of how we are together in a new and more equal and respectful way? Isn't this the time for that discussion?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109214623	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109214623-2	First of all, thank you for the praise to Mr. Karsten Hønge. It is very important for us that equal, respectful, engaging and trusting not only are some words, but are also something we do in practice, for example. when we appear together in the Arctic Council. But what the government has been concerned about since day one has just been strengthening the concrete, continuous cooperation between Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark on foreign, security and defence policy. So, of course, we have a framework of state law and international law. They are there, but within them we can do a lot of important things together, and that is what we are doing now. We have set up this new contact committee between the three government parts to make a reflection and discuss when something that is a taken over area and full respect for it e.g. At the same time, it has a security dimension. How do we discuss this? Can we find a common ground on the challenges we face? So we're on our way. So I fully agree that we must cultivate it even more.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109214729	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109214730	It is just that I think that Denmark should take the initiative instead of waiting for frustration and dissatisfaction to smoulder and, as such flat-cheeked nationalists, I sometimes think. Then it becomes more than it can actually bear, and then it becomes such an unmanageable discussion. And then it may sometimes be an experience for the Faroe Islands and Greenland that it is as if you have to press Denmark to do certain things. Then I wonder whether it would not be better for Denmark itself to take the initiative, if I may say so, to redefine the kingdom community, so that you do not have to face that frustration and doubt, and simply start afresh.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109214809	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109214810	Well, in order not to talk past each other, I'd like to say to Mr. Karsten Hønge, that what has at least been the wish of this government has been to take initiatives of various kinds, including: Very specifically in relation to the Arctic Council, as Mr. Karsten Hønge mentioned. Who signs the Declaration on behalf of the Kingdom? Greenland now does. Who speaks first? Greenland does. We have also actually strengthened cooperation between the three kingdoms, and I think we prove in our daily work that that trust is something that we can slowly build up and earn.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109214848	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109214849	Thank you for your words, and thank you for your cooperation from here too. I would actually just like to ask a brief question, because I think that security policy has filled a great deal this evening. Will security policy become part of the Kingdom's Arctic strategy?
ParlaMint-DK_20211109214907	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109214908	Yes, in the sense that it is important to focus on low-voltage, keeping Arctic cooperation conflict-free, building on the good cooperation that is there. This applies to all five Arctic coastal states and all eight permanent members of the Arctic Council, and that is the case with the Arctic people, the 4 million who live and live in the Arctic region. All this is also a security policy. This helps to ensure that, as I mentioned, we can keep Arctic conflict-free. It was also one of my concerns when I was with the American Foreign Minister, Antony Blinken, both at the meeting in Denmark, but also in Greenland, to focus on how we can all contribute to ensuring that tensions do not increase in the Arctic. How can we maintain the Arctic in accordance with the Ilulissat Declaration, which we are all concerned with? So it is clear that it is a foundation for everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109215012	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109215014	Thank you. Low tension and peace are at least a prerequisite for creating growth and development in Greenlandic society. I would like to know whether the Folketing will be re-involved in relation to the Kingdom's Arctic strategy before it is presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109215030	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109215031	Yes, of course we will. Now we have a process in progress in the three kingdoms, the three governments, and a new Greenlandic government in Naalaksuisut will, of course, present its own strategy, and so will the Faroe Islands. When the time comes, of course, we can consult each other, but we have also had a long inclusive process along the way and have already, I think, reached agreement on many priorities. So, without going into detail, I would like to say that I look forward to the continuing process. It's a living document. It's not just a strategy, it's something that has to run continuously.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109215110	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. I have not registered any others who wish to speak, and that concludes the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20211109215123	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 10 November 2021, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
