ParlaMint-DK_20210408100021	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408100029	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408100051	The debate is open. No one has asked for the floor. Then I shall have to consider the debate as closed. Is there any further request for referral to committee? As this is not the case, the proposal goes directly to the second and final reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408100128	The debate is open. There is no rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party, and then it is Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408100205	Thank you for that, President. Left is a freedom-loving party. We safeguard the individual's right to choose freely from, for example. the many care and care services. We safeguard the individual's right to choose freely, for example. nursing homes, rehabilitation and food service. We safeguard so much the individual's right to self-determination and the ability to make free choices that we have been leading for years to rethink and expand the new freedom of choice. The Left upholds our common freedom and prosperity. For us in the Left, whether we are talking about schools, day-to-day services or the elderly, it is absolutely crucial that the Danes really have something to choose from, and I would like to start by emphasising that we in the Left have no preferences in relation to whether you choose a public or private player. For us, it is crucial that you have something to choose from, both in private and in public. The draft law here, the proposal for a law on welfare agreements in the area of the elderly, can both deprive and limit the freedoms of the elderly. We in the Left cannot in any way support that. It is simply system thinking of the worst drawer. In fact, the draft law allows the municipalities to abolish the option of free elections, for example. in the area of food service, care and care, and what is worse, citizens cannot even complain if they, for example, are able to complain. is deprived of their home help, which is a private player, and is given local home help instead. That is simply not right. In the Left, we are quite in line with the Elders' case, which, in their hearing answer, is just wondering why we will make attempts at free choice when one in three elderly people who make use of the free choice are happy about it. And we in the Left also agree with the Elders case that instead of depriving the individual home help recipient of the right to choose between several providers, we could look at the possibilities of new forms of private and public cooperation. That's something that points forward rather than this huge setback that this bill is an expression of. The Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly has pointed out on several occasions that the aim of the draft law is to give municipalities and employees more room for action and that it ultimately benefits citizens. But the hand on the heart is not what it is about. As the Elders case points out, the draft law abolishes a number of rights for the elderly, if the municipalities so wish, and puts pressure on the citizens' right to appeal. As the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly himself writes in the commentary on the consultation note: "The judicial review will thus probably be limited and, as a result, it will be difficult to change a municipal decision. ▪ The government is now introducing legislation which opens the way for the right of the elderly to free choice to be taken away from them, and at the same time the thousands of older people will not really have a right of appeal either. It is simply system thinking of the worst drawer when, in the red room, you tighten the system screw for the thousands of vulnerable elderly, who have only limited resources to shout guard in the rifle. Left is a freedom-loving party. Indeed, we are so lovers of freedom that we have proposed releasing all 98 municipalities in the country instead of just the seven municipalities proposed by the government. Why not initiate and extend free municipalities in a wide range of welfare areas such as: the area of employment, the social area, the cultural area, the leisure and technical area or the climate area? We in the Left have a large number of proposals which would, in various ways, both lift up and strengthen efforts in the area of the elderly. Allow me, for example. mention local boards in the country's nursing homes, where the relatives also have a place; senior counsellors in all municipalities who could guide our older people to make the right choices when e.g. the last home must be chosen; or legislation that ensures a free nursing home in much more of the country's municipalities than is the case today, when it is only in about half of the municipalities that the elderly have a genuinely free choice when the last residence is to be chosen. Last but not least, I fully agree with the main organisation of the trade union movement, which points out that the bill here is not without risk, because the municipalities can override quality standards that guarantee citizens a certain quality of their services, and the FOA points out that it is both unclear and uncertain how the bill here will release employee resources, which can both increase the presence and quality of the welfare of citizens. But perhaps the Minister will answer that when she goes to the platform later. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408100625	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408100630	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. It is clear that the Left is where the Left has always stood, including when it comes to free elections. I am very much in favour of citizens having a great influence on what kind of life they have to live when they get older. Recently we could hear an example from North Jutland, where a woman could not get her back washed because it was not part of quality standards. Now I think most people can probably figure out how to handle that back anyway, but that is exactly what the free choice is also: a choice of a number of tasks that you cannot solve because it is provided in the standards what you buy and sell when you get private companies to solve the task. Does the rapporteur not at all see an opportunity for the citizen to actually have an influence on what tasks actually have to be solved in the home, more than the citizen having an influence on what kind of logo is on the company car?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408100725	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408100727	I think that citizens should be given plenty of influence and plenty of opportunities to choose what is best suited to the individual, and that is exactly what we in the Left, as a freedom-loving party, have stood for and will continue to do in the future. But that's not what this bill is all about. For what lies in this bill here is really giving the municipalities an opportunity to limit free choice, that is to say, instead of giving the possibility of both choosing a private and a public player here, the municipalities have the opportunity to choose only one player, and that is to tighten the screws around the citizens. And I fully agree with the Elders case, which wonders why you want to challenge the free choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408100812	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408100814	Thank you. Now it is not provided that it is the case that the individual municipality will choose to take down this proposal. On the contrary, it is intended that there are many possibilities. This isn't just about what the municipalities think is a good idea. After all, we have just fought into the agreement that much must also be taken into account as to what kind of wishes the citizen could have for a different way of solving the tasks. For example, when we see that free choice of nursing homes is not really very free, because it will be a question of taking the place that is now available, then we have made some promises and guarantees which in practice cannot be done in reality. Does it not make sense to leave it up to the citizen and the employees to find the right solution in the individual situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408100905	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408100906	When I read the hearings from among others... Selveje Denmark, the OK-Fonden and the Danish Occupation, I would say that it is not the impression that you get, when you read the consultation answers, that you sort of strengthen the free choice here around free care homes. I just want to say that. But it may be that the rapporteur reads them quite differently than I do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408100925	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408101001	Thank you. Welfare agreements and welfare laws sound extremely appealing, but when you dive into it, it turns out to be something quite different. The bill deals with the execution of an agreement outside the Danish People's Party. Basically, it would be a good idea to loosen the grip and allow municipalities to solve their tasks in a more free and tailor-made way. We would very much have liked to have been involved in this if the concrete welfare agreement were not to remove a number of important rights for the elderly citizen. With us in the Danish People's Party, the elderly come first. We would very much like to solve some of the challenges experienced in the care of the elderly. But the first priority is therefore the elderly, and we cannot defend them as being disadvantaged than before. That's why we're not in the deal. We are not satisfied with the fence posts the government has set, that is, the rules that are retained. We have tried to get a dialogue on this. We would have liked to see priority given to the elderly being never placed at a disadvantage compared to the municipalities where legislation is followed, and there should be a special right of appeal for elderly people and relatives who believe that the municipality does not live up to it. Some of the rights that older citizens risk losing are the right to appoint a helper themselves, the right to choose a supplier, practical assistance and food service, the right to rehabilitation where the municipality will no longer be obliged to provide rehabilitation, the right to relief and the replacement of relatives, where the municipality will no longer be obliged to offer relief and relief for relatives, etc. The elected municipalities will be able to derogate from the provisions of the Services Act, for example in relation to the citizen's free choice, for example. free choice of home help. It is difficult to see that the individual needs of the individual elderly can be better met in a system where the elderly cannot choose an alternative. The call is therefore to make citizens' free choice and the right to choose a private provider of home help and a care home in a free-care home for a fence stake. It was a desire in the negotiations that the government did not want to meet. It is going too far to free the municipalities by giving freedom from the rules of free choice. The rules of free choice are not unnecessary bureaucracy, but a guarantee of a fundamental right for citizens to make the choices they want to make. It is incredibly important not to deprive citizens of their freedom of choice with the free community attempt. It is also felt that one of the aims of the law is to guarantee citizens self-determination. The aim is sympathetic, but should be followed by citizens being able to choose where they want to live and who has to provide care for themselves. We can also note in the hearings that the Elders case is puzzled that attempts are being made with free choice, as more than one in three makes use of it and is happy about it. It is worrying that the right of individual home help recipients to choose freely between several providers will be removed. They also wonder in the Alzheimer's Association's hearing that neither better care, care nor professionalism are mentioned in the draft law's terms of reference or in the comments to them. The Alzheimer's Association proposes that better care, care and care for the individual citizen as well as better professional skills, among others. to employees and managers, written into the legal provisions of the law itself. We would like to support this in the Danish People's Party. In the Danish People's Party, we have also tabled a proposal for an older law which should guarantee more employees and minimum rights, and where among other things. The caring and rock card system had to be written into the law, but unfortunately there was no majority for that. There are also legal implications in relation to the possibility of appeal. For example: The Ankestyrelsen writes: "As far as the elderly are concerned, the Ankestyrelsen has taken note of the wording of the appeal clause in section 15 of the draft law, which states that both decisions under § 11 (1). 1 and decisions taken in accordance with the rules of the municipality pursuant to Paragraph 11 (1). Two will be open to appeal to the Ankestyrelsen. The Ankestyrelsen has also noted that it is apparent from the special comments on the proposed section 15 that the wording of the provision must ensure that the decisions of the municipal council can be appealed against, even though the municipal council may not yet have adopted any detailed rules under the proposed section 11 (1). 2. It also appears that it will not be possible to ensure the same procedure in the appeal body as today, since the municipalities will be free from providing specific services according to the current provisions of the Service Act and the requirements for quality standards, for example, and that it will therefore be more difficult for the Ankestyrelsen to change decisions, so it is to be expected in practice that the Ankestyrelsen will take advantage of the option to refer back instead. So it is the right of appeal that is not really worth much in practice. In the Danish People's Party we will follow the case of this bill closely, as we find it deeply worrying that the government chooses to make attempts to reduce citizens' rights, including undermining citizens' free elections. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408101453	Thank you for that, and there are no comments, so we will move on when the alcohol has gone off. Here you go, Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408101515	Thank you. A great deal of legislation has created bureaucracy which, despite the opposite intentions, has actually put citizens in a situation where they have very, very little influence on what needs to be done in relation to the individual. I would therefore have liked to see, and I do not want to hide that, a more far-reaching proposal than what has been put forward today. The administrative bureaucracy is resources that could have been used instead for more time for those citizens who need help and care. Nevertheless, I thought it was a good day when we reached a political agreement in December to free the elderly. As I said, I would have liked it to have gone further, and I find it strange that one can be opposed to a proposal which deals with debureaucratisation and the possibility of better care for the elderly, but so much for those parties which normally hail the debureaucratisation of legislation. The welfare agreement in the area of the elderly must help to give the staff more room for professionalism, the professionalism that can be put into play when you have the opportunities, and the citizens should also be very happy to experience both more closeness and better care and care, but certainly also more influence on the help that they need to receive. I think there is a great need for this, after too long resorting to more standardisation and privatisation, as an attempt to address challenges in the area of the elderly, bearing in mind economic challenges. That is why we in the SF are pleased that we now have the courage to place responsibility on those who are closest to the citizens. We hope that the experiments can make us wiser on how we can give older people much more influence on the help that he or she himself believes he or she needs, but also to give local managers and employees more freedom to use their skills to solve the tasks in the most appropriate and qualified way. I hope that the welfare agreements will also provide a basis for more experiments with permanent teams in the care of the elderly, where the citizen gets to know staff in everyday life. At any rate, the Elder Summit showed that there was a great deal of agreement that this is one of the paths we must take, namely that we must ensure that the citizen meets well-known staff in everyday life. We hope that the selected municipalities, Langeland, Middelfart and Viborg, will benefit from the increased levels of freedom, but of course also that their learning and experience will be spread out to the rest of the country if the follow-up evaluations show that experience is sustainable. I think we owe this to ourselves, to each other and to the citizens. It is a small and limited experiment that we have the opportunity to follow closely. Therefore, I would just like to sum up that the SF will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408101818	Thank you. We have a few comments to make. Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408101823	Thank you for that and thank you very much to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen for her speech. The rapporteur wonders why all parties cannot support this, where the aim is to debureaucratise. And when it is presented in this way, I can understand that it is a wonder. I also believe that, if a single fence post were to be set up, it would be possible to obtain much more support for this bill. There are two sides of fence posts. We could just add one extra, which clearly described that citizens were assured of their free choice also in the future. Will the SF help to set up such a fence stake if we table it as an amendment?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408101857	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408101859	No, because the fence stake that Mrs Mette Abildgaard is talking about is precisely about ensuring that there are also private providers or vice versa. For a municipality can also choose to say that we leave it to a private provider to take care of the entire care of the elderly. But when I do not want to be a part of it, it is because I actually think that there is a need for the municipalities themselves to make some suggestions about how to create greater flexibility in everyday life. Because the prerequisite for tendering is precisely that you make rigid standards, where you know what you have sold or what you have paid for. And there must be the opportunity to create a more flexible task solution in everyday life, so that we avoid what happened to the citizen of North Jutland who suddenly learns that she cannot get her back washed because it is not part of quality standards. I think that's a rigid way to solve the problems. I think there are many citizens who have a sense of what they need most in everyday life.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408102002	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408102004	In my view, it is not essential to create flexibility for the municipalities. For me, it is essential to create flexibility for the citizen and to allow free elections. I think it is really a pity that such an agreement here, which could contain very good things from which we could learn and from which we could involve forward-looking ones, is made narrow because we choose to deprive the elderly of the freedom of choice. As a principle, does the SF continue to support the principle of free choice for the elderly in the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408102030	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408102031	As a principle, the SF supports the need for citizens to have a much greater influence on the aid that they must receive themselves. We have just emphasized in the discussion of the agreement here that it was not important for us to give the municipalities a high degree of freedom, although I actually believe that the municipalities are interested in giving their citizens the help they themselves think they need. However, it has been important for us to emphasise that citizens themselves should also have greater influence. It is difficult to imagine that you can make an outsourcing agreement that will give citizens an influence on the quality standard that the municipality will subsequently have to make purchases and sales after.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408102105	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408102110	Thank you for that and also thank the rapporteur for the speech. We have to understand that SF is simply opposed to quality standards that the municipalities are making. And I suppose this has nothing to do with the tasks that neither the public nor the private players solve, because it is the municipality that sets quality standards. But it is also a view one can stand on, so say that one does not want it in the SF. I'm gonna ask you a question. It is because the rapporteur mentioned this point that now bureaucracy was being removed and more freedom was being sought. Those are the words that just sound really delicious, that is, when you say more freedom. It's hard to disagree with. But I'd like to ask you something. The FOA points out in its consultation answer that it is unclear and it is uncertain how the bill will release employee resources that can both create increased presence and quality. Could the SF's rapporteur not shed a clear light on what this is all about? Where is it that is being released employee resources? Where is closeness being created? And where is the quality that is being created with this bill here? The FOA lacks a clear answer to that, but we do so in the Left as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408102219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408102220	If, in the extreme, one imagined that it was actually up to a well-trained employee and the individual citizen to find out what it was that the citizen needed help, then one would be able to free up the resources to go out defining all the tasks that the municipality thinks it will pay to solve, get the time measured, get the price set, get the transaction costs, which are associated with buying and settling and documenting that one has provided searched services. It is then resources that could be released and thus left to well-trained employees and the citizen himself to define in everyday life. So yes, you would actually be able to free administrative resources for the care of the elderly if you dared. That is why I think we will also have opportunities with a small limited attempt here to see that this could happen again. I'm old enough to remember that it used to be, and I didn't just think it was bad. However, I also know that the aim at the time of changing the premises was to have some financial management as well. I sometimes think that's forgotten in this. We have got a lot of financial management out of the way that older people have been organised over time, but perhaps we have just pushed the lemon too much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408102340	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408102341	Well, I have to say to the SF rapporteur that here we are not talking in the extreme. Here we are talking about a concrete legislative proposal from a government supported by the SF. This isn't the ultimate consequence. And I still haven't gotten a clear answer on how employee resources are being released with this bill. What is it that really creates more presence? Is it the removal of quality standards? Is that what creates presence in SF optics? What is it that creates increased quality? Where are we? I just have to ask that again, because I'm completely in line with the FOA. This is so unclear. I hear such a lot of buzzord from SF's rapporteur. All we need is for the rapporteur to say 'new public management', so there is a full record. But can the rapporteur be a little more specific?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408102431	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408102432	I would also like to say new public management, because of course it is also clearly a theme. I really think this isn't buzzord. I mean it seriously when I say that Mrs Andersen herself must have more influence on what help she actually herself thinks she needs. I think it is a paradox that the rapporteur thinks that a quality standard per person. definition also means quality outside Mrs Hansen, especially if it is the case that you have forgotten to write that your back should also be washed, and that in practice means that she does not get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408102504	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408102506	I simply have to comment, because the SF rapporteur stands here and says that Mrs Hansen herself must have the opportunity to have influence, but you have written out of the agreement that Mrs Hansen has the right to choose something else if she receives a bad offer. Well, you've written free choice out of it. It simply does not make any sense, it does not add up. But I would really like to hear SF about something, because I remember that these were some of the discussions we had when we were negotiating this agreement, and that was actually one of the things I asked quite specifically about. I asked whether this would not actually mean simply freeing the municipalities at the expense of the elderly. That's what the deal means. After all, it is said that it is important that the municipalities, like the local authorities, get organised in a way that they think is good. It is just not so important at the end of the day that the elderly are heard. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408102558	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408102559	No, I cannot do that for the simple reason that we have just written into the agreement, that it was vitally important that this was not just about freeing some municipalities, but that it was actually also about giving citizens more influence on the aid they are going to receive. I think that if you ask the citizens what they want to influence in relation to the help they are going to receive, then most citizens will be more concerned with what help they get in the home in everyday life than with the company logo on the home care car. It is the same staff who come to the home, they are just employed in different companies, but that is not what makes the difference with regard to the tasks that are solved at home. This is partly the professionalism of the company and partly the municipal standards which form the basis for both the private company and the municipality themselves. What if we dared to say to the well-educated staff and to Mrs Hansen: we are sure that you are better at handling it on your own.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408102702	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408102704	Well, actually, we dare. That's why we couldn't be part of the deal. We have great faith that Mrs Hansen will be able to choose something else herself if she gets a bad offer from the municipality. This is what the SF has now written out of the agreement and is refusing to write into this bill. Because you can vote with your feet, and what SF actually prevents with this particular bill is that you can actively choose something else. But I would really like to know if SF also thinks that it is troublesome and bureaucratic that the Danes are generally free to choose between offers paid by the Danes' tax dollars.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408102742	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408102744	After all, I do not think that welfare is a matter of money. In fact, I think most older people think that they really want to be free from needing home help. In fact, they prefer to be free of home helpers entering their homes. When they arrive, the elderly would like those who come to be well qualified and to fulfil the tasks that the citizens themselves think are important to achieve. I could see that Mrs Hansen should have the opportunity to say that it should not be Susanne, but that it should preferably be Malene, because chemistry also matters. But a municipal employee who enters the citizen's home is not a municipal lady; it is well-educated Susanne, well-educated Malene or well-educated Peter who comes and takes care of the tasks that need to be solved at home in cooperation with the citizen, and I think that is actually more important than choosing the company logo on the car.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408102838	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408102841	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I hear the rapporteur and the Danish People's Party very much agree that what is central is ensuring the good care of the individual elderly out there. I also hear the rapporteur talking about well-educated staff, talking about the fact that there are problems in care around, for example. That you can't be washed on your back. I think we have fought too many times to ensure that it is actually solved out there. That is why, in relation to this agreement, I am surprised that it has not been written in, that better care should actually be provided, that well-trained employees should be guaranteed, that is, that there were like some fence posts that secured it here, instead of saying that we are now putting it up to the municipalities. I believe that the municipalities have the good intentions, but we also see very many places where things go wrong and where there is a need for fence posts to ensure that the municipalities do not do anything. So why aren't those fence posts in relation to education and ensuring a minimum level of care?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408102940	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408102942	In fact, it has just been written into the agreement that this should not be reduced, but should actually lead to improvements, both for the citizen and, indeed, for the employees who have to solve the tasks out there. We're short of trained personnel. We have major recruitment problems in relation to health professionals in the municipalities, and we are therefore also pleased that the Finance Act has provided funds for the training of unskilled staff. Indeed, one of the solutions to ensure more continuity is also, as I tried to mention in my rapporteur's speech, that we also think more about the same staff having to take care of the same citizens, and chemistry is crucial, it is important that citizens have an influence on who they are coming and how the tasks are being solved. Actually, I think I can do that. In fact, the thing about well-known staff, chemistry and good relationships does matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408103040	Here you go, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408103043	Well, we in the Danish People's Party are very much in agreement with that, but that is not what the agreement says, it is not what is being secured. In fact, this is where it's being laid out to the municipality. If you want to appeal and complain about it, it is that the Ankestyrelsen says that with this set of rules they have not so many tools but to send it back to the municipality, because it is the municipality that has decided what to do, and they cannot really go in and deal with that. So there is no remedy either. Shouldn't it really be there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408103108	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408103110	In fact, one could say that one should be aware of that. But this is sometimes the case with experiments, that is to say, you try something and follow it closely. It's the idea that exactly these projects also have to be followed closely. I find it really difficult to see how you come from a very rigid system today, where we have sat and defined from here exactly what needs to be done in the municipalities, down to the smallest detail, and so that very many citizens actually feel alienated from some of the things that we have written down in the smallest detail in here, and in order to create the possibility that you can influence the tasks that need to be solved yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408103150	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408103154	We in the Liberal Alliance are very much in favour of giving both municipalities and institutions the freedom to devise for themselves how the service can be organized in the best possible way. However, it is on the assumption that the citizen has an opportunity to choose something else if the things the institutions find out are not for the benefit of the citizen, but rather for the benefit of the institution. This is where the free choice of the elderly will be removed, and I simply do not understand that the SF will be involved. The SF prides itself on being different from the Social Democrats... at least in the past it has been done that one was less system and more freedom than the Social Democrats. This is one of several examples of SF becoming social democrats just with a different list name. There is as much system in this which SF votes in favour as there has always been in the Social Democratic Party; it is the system of man. What if it was the primary school area? What if, in three municipalities, the right to send their children to free school was abolished? Would the SF vote for that, too? Or does the SF have one policy for parents and their children and another policy for the elderly, which should not have the same rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408103259	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408103300	Now it is probably more reasonable to compare home-care with a free school, I think, and I sincerely believe it is. When we talk about the free choice advocated by the rapporteur, it is all about choosing another company to perform exactly the same tasks that municipal staff have to do. It's a prerequisite that you can make this offer, that you know exactly what it is for some tasks you've asked the company to solve, exactly how long it has to take to solve the tasks, exactly what the price is. The only freedom given here to the citizen is that if you think it is too little, you can buy a little more. It is the only freedom that has actually been given to the citizen with free elections. I think that the citizen should have much greater freedom to influence what makes sense himself. Maybe it would make sense that, instead of getting a lot of help, the citizen just got a call. Some citizens will be able to last longer alone in their own homes if they had the confidence that they could get to someone if it was the case that it was needed. That is just not possible in the way in which care for the elderly has been organised today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408103410	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408103412	If the SF wants to convince the public that the task of home care is just exactly the same, and there is no difference whether it is one employee or the other employee who does it, whether it is one institution or the other institution that does it, then you are welcome to do so. We in the Liberal Alliance have such great respect for the task that is being carried out that we know that it can be done well and that it can be done badly. Because there is a difference between people and there is a difference in the way the work is organised, and therefore I just do not understand that SF will deprive the elderly of the free choice to choose the solution that they like best.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408103446	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408103447	I fully agree with the rapporteur that there are differences between people. But there is no difference between people because they are employed in one company or another when they are asked to do exactly the same job. I would very much like to give the citizen a greater say in what kind of person he is going to come to the citizen's home, and there must be room for him to be given the opportunity to say that chemistry is bad. For good chemistry creates security, and good chemistry is also what enables the citizen and the employee to solve the tasks in the most professionally qualified way for the benefit of the citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408103526	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408103530	I think it is very fine words that the rapporteur uses here, that is to say good chemistry, trust, security and so on, that you should not feel alienated. Will the SF also ensure that as a citizen you can opt out of people who come with the Muslim scarf? I think there are a lot of older people who feel the alienation of suddenly having to deal with the religion of other people and something that you have never grown up with. So I would be really happy if SF and Dansk Folkeparti could shake hands with each other that you as an elderly person should of course also have that right.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408103602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408103603	First of all, I think it is a good question which I myself have spent some time thinking about, and without making me sound wrong right now, I am a little inclined to agree with the rapporteur, but on another premise. Because it is my experience that people who are very different also find a good chemistry with each other. I have experienced this in my own job, but I actually think that it makes great sense to make sure that there is this good chemistry and that you have this good relationship. Because that is what makes the work successful, that is what makes the citizen experience quality. So, yeah, I actually think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408103649	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408103650	I am very pleased about that. I can hear deep sighs among the other red parties when I mention this, but I think it is actually quite important, at least for some elderly people. It may be that there are some elderly people who think it is an exciting cultural matter in everyday life that you can get in a Muslim scarf as a cleaning aid or the person who prepares the food or whatever it is, but I am quite convinced that there are also many who feel exactly the opposite. At least I've talked to quite a few of them. That's why I just want to know if SF will lift this. Because it is, after all, the execution of an agreement made by the SF and the other red parties, so we do not really have the opportunity to lift it. Can we count on SF to lift it up and perhaps explain away some of the deep sighs I hear over here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408103726	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408103727	I am not going to set a standard in the Parliamentary Chamber where we say that is the way it should be. In fact, however, I think it is good management if it is the case that the chemistry between the citizen and the helper who has to work together in everyday life is good, both for the sake of the employee concerned and for the sake of the individual citizen. It brings fewer complaints, it brings more satisfaction, and I simply cannot see that there should be no leader who thinks that this must be the aim of the way in which work is organised in everyday life.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408103758	Thank you. Then there are no more comments, and that's Mr. Knox. Henrik Vinther, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408103818	Thank you. As little bureaucracy as possible and as much freedom as possible to plan and carry out the best possible care for the elderly are the aims of the proposal we are debating today, which is, of course, a consequence of the agreement reached in December. In concrete terms, some legal ties are being loosened for four municipalities. It is a good first step, it can help develop good ideas and give good new experiences to all other municipalities in the country. This, of course, continues to mean that the individual citizen must have the necessary assistance that he or she needs and there is a right of appeal. The aim is a better offer, and we are confident that this can be resolved locally in good solutions out there, where the elderly live and are, and that is why we can of course support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408103854	Thank you. There are questions from Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408103859	Yes, there is a right of appeal, says the rapporteur. Isn't that a truth with modifications? If you read the Minister's own hearing answer, there really is no remedy. So perhaps the rapporteur would just like to clarify exactly what kind of redress that the rapporteur sees, which the Minister has not seen. Then I would like to ask a little more about the home of free care. I shall not hide the fact that I am very surprised that the Radical Left has agreed to this agreement. Once again, if you read the consultation answers from Danish Business, Danish Industry, Insurance & Pension and the OK Foundation, to name just some, we are all concerned about what this means for the free care homes and for the way you run free care homes and for the opportunities you have to choose a free care home. Will the rapporteur not tell us a little about the views of the Radicals? Are there still optimal options for both choosing and running a home for free care after the agreement has been reached here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104000	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104001	Thank you. Let me take the last one first. It is an attempt in which we ask the municipalities to think new and think out of the box. I'm not worried about general access to a free-care home. When you try, and when you think new, it also requires that you dare lower your guard a little and see if you can do it in a different way than you do today. And we're gonna open that up here without taking our mouths too full. In relation to the right to appeal, I would say that this is not a right of appeal, as I understand the rapporteur's understanding, but it is certainly an opportunity to involve the Ankestyrelsen and ask them to look at the matter again. It may be that we need to adjust a little, how will we discuss it when we come to committee, but basically we should be able to count on the care that is provided in the municipalities and in the care of the elderly, and I trust that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104047	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104049	So, I think I will just quote what the Minister writes in the commentary on the hearing note. It is not certain that the rapporteur heard it when I gave my speech: "The judicial review will thus probably be limited and, as a result, it will be difficult to change a municipal decision. • Does the rapporteur really think that it is a reassuring right to complain when the citizens of three municipalities are now deprived of the opportunity to choose freely what kind of care, care, food service or rehabilitation they want? Does the rapporteur really think in his radical heart that it is quite okay that there really is no right of appeal? I'm just asking, because I think it's important that you go into this with your eyes open. That is, what to say, so basic for us in Denmark, that if a decision is made, you also have a right of appeal, but you do not have it here. Does the rapporteur feel in his radical heart that it is quite okay in these three municipalities and that it doesn't matter to the elderly whether they can complain or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104146	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104148	I find it very difficult to imagine that there are municipalities which organise a care for the elderly, the sole purpose of which is to ensure that you do not receive the care you need. And then it is true that there is no legal ordeal, but telling how you look at the matter is also a way of showing what it should be like.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104204	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104208	I interpret Mr. Mr Vinther's very brief speech by the rapporteur on this important matter, as an expression of the fact that the Radicals are not quite proud to be involved in this, and I understand that, although Mr Vinther's report does not go far enough. Henrik Vinther says it's just an attempt. It could never be imagined that the Radicals, I think, would agree to an experiment where, for example, in some municipalities. did not have the opportunity to send his child to free school. I don't think so, even if it was just an attempt. That is why I cannot believe that the Radicals are proud to prevent elderly people from being allowed to choose a private provider of home care to which they are entitled today. Why should the young people, the children who are going to school and the old people who need home care be distinguished? Surely the principle of free choice is a good one, whether young or old. So I can't believe the Radicals really think this is good. Then the only question is why the Radicals saw the agreement, and there I would like to know whether Mr. Henrik Vinther can tell you about it. Have you made some kind of shit deal where you get something else somewhere else to accept this absurdity?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104311	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104313	I was not there, if I may quote the rapporteur when the toilet agreement was made, but I can say that overall it is an agreement that offers some new opportunities to think new things out there where the elderly live and live and are; try to see if there are any bureaucratic limits that could be different; try to see if there are any ways of running the care of the elderly that are better than the way they are doing it today. Overall, it's a good deal. This is a good way of thinking newly in the public sector, and we are both satisfied with this and also happy to be part of the agreement on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104342	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104344	The opportunity to think new is the ultimate when the elderly can be allowed to choose someone other than the municipality itself to offer themselves the service. Then new ideas can be put in place in all sorts of places, and if you come up with something better for the money that is available, then the elderly can choose it. It is the ultimate opportunity to test new things, but that is being abolished here. I simply do not understand that the Radicals are involved in this, and that is why I think that Mr. Henrik Vinther has to tell us what it is you have got in some remote place in return for accepting this abuse of the freedom of the elderly to choose the service they receive themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104424	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104426	I don't know what it is anywhere we're going to explain it. I am not aware that there should be any action in this regard other than the good trade that is in that municipalities, which are currently subject to some rules, are given the opportunity to test what happens if you think out of the box in relation to it. I think that's a good idea. This seems to the Radical Left to be a good idea and that is why we are in the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104442	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104446	Thank you, President. In line with what I asked the Socialist People's Party's rapporteur, I would like to know whether the Radicals agree that the elderly who do not like an employee wearing, for example. the Muslim scarf, enters their homes, must have the opportunity to choose from it. It may sometimes be because you are not one of those who think that immigration from the Muslim world is fantastic, and then it can be very cross-border suddenly to have to be met with such symbols in your own kitchen, in your living room or perhaps even to help in such intimate contexts. Well, then, sir. Henrik Vinther and the Radicals agree that it must of course be possible for the elderly to opt out of people who wear visible Islamic symbols?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104530	I am fully confident that a care can be organised in the municipalities, taking into account the wishes and needs of the individual elderly, including who comes to the home. But if so, sir. Morten Messerschmidt asks if I want to help make legislation that says that you cannot wear a scarf when you are at work in the care of the elderly, then the answer is no.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104546	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104547	Legislation is also a very powerful instrument. Well, it could be that sir. Henrik Vinther, on behalf of his party, just wanted to send out a signal to the municipalities. I believe that this is an agreement that has been made and then implemented by law, and it would be quite significant if, as a municipal leader or private leader, it could be said that it is a wish of those who have made the agreement that one should be able to opt out of employees who bear clear Islamic symbols. So, sir. Henrik Vinther doesn't have to make legislative proposals or think in those directions; he just has to say it: yes, it must be possible to opt out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104620	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104622	I have to repeat my answer from just now, which is that I trust you can find out locally. How to dress in the care of the elderly, which is within the law and the custom, I am not interfering in. I think that can be dealt with where care for the elderly is organized in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104637	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104642	The rapporteur used the wording that all that was done here was to think out of the box. But to think out of the box is to deprive the elderly of their choice? I think that is such an extreme way of thinking out of the box. And I think that the whole purpose of experimenting should be to have an interest in spreading it to the rest of the country. There's got to be a purpose in doing these experiments. So I just want to hear whether the Radical Left really is playing with the idea of spreading to the rest of the country, that the elderly should not have a free choice in terms of care, care, food, etc. Is that a thought that is being played with and experimented with in the Radical Left and that is being tested right now if really to be unfolded to the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104732	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104733	Basically, the answer is no. It is good that there is a free choice, and the municipalities that are involved in this attempt still have the opportunity, if you want it in the municipal councils, to ensure that there is a choice which is also private.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104744	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104746	But if you are not interested in spreading it; if you can already say one hundred per cent sure that you will not spread it to the rest of the country, because you believe in principle that the citizen has the right to free choice, which I believe the citizen has, why should we not set up a fence stake which in this attempt provides security for the elderly in the municipalities, a fence stake that ensures free choice? Will the Radical Left be a part of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104806	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104807	I am quite confident that both the rapporteur's and my own party's members of the municipal councils around here, including in the four municipalities that are involved in the attempt here, will know to ensure that what is considered to be best in that municipality is also offered to the citizens who are in the municipality. In general, I think it is a good thing that you can choose between different providers; I think that is something that we generally benefit from being able to do. We are trying to look at what framework we can adjust to make it less bureaucratic to plan the care that is out there today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104836	Thank you for that, and then there are no more comments. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408104854	Thank you. Like the previous rapporteur, I have not been able to sit in the room where this agreement was made, whatever it was for a space, but I have followed the debate on the sidelines and am actually quite happy that we are standing here today with legislation that can carry out an experiment which we may call a little wild, but which is nevertheless something that needs to be done to get rid of some of the bureaucracy that has accumulated through, it has to be said, changing governments. When the current government proclaimed that now they wanted to debureaucratize and get rid of the minute tyranny and free up time and ensure that there was a real free choice among both employees and citizens to organise things as they jointly think is best, I thought: yes, yes, all the others have said so, and yet only more rules have been added. That is why the starting point for this agreement, which we are implementing today's legislation, and also the second, which deals with the day-to-day supply and the primary school area, is that we are trying to free the municipalities, both for the rules that we ourselves may feel close to our heart and those that we have long thought were the fatigue, so that they get something which is not a complete freedom, but which is as close as possible. This means that there may be individual elements of what we in the Enhedslisten, for example, think is a completely crucial right, and other things that we think it is much easier to say that we just throw away and that the municipalities need not be bound by. We are actually trying to give a real opportunity for the municipalities to start again in quotation marks. The purpose of the whole thing is to release time and ensure freedom for the individual municipality, preferably for the individual nursing home and the individual home helper and the individual citizen. At the same time, of course, we have secured a number of fence posts, which are about this having to lead to improvements and not more savings, which many years of cuts and, incidentally, things that free choice most of all has led to. It is also obliged by the provisions of the Services Act still away to ensure the needs of the elderly, and of course the municipal council is still obliged to provide it. I hope that this means that we will find new local ways of doing things and that we will see both older citizens and employees have more opportunities and experience. I look forward to the evaluations. I am sure that these evaluations will both show that some of what is going very well and some of what is going very badly. That's part of the risk of what we're trying to do now. On the other hand, I believe that this is also, at least in the last ten years, the first such real attempt to free some municipalities and get rid of the minute tyranny that we are all talking about in all our toasts about care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408105233	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408105237	Thank you for that, President. In some contexts, I have seen Enhedslisten speak in favour of being allowed as a Muslim to renounce certain types of occupation, for example. to deal with pork and such things, and that is why it is natural to ask Mrs Pernille Skipper whether she, like among others, is she? The Socialist People's Party believes that older fellow citizens who wish to renounce the fact that people enter their homes in Muslim robes should also be given the opportunity to renounce it. In other words, when Mrs Pernille Skipper talks about freedom, security and the need to be able to feel secure in relation to those who enter your home, it would not also be natural to give it freedom and right to say no, for example. the Muslim scarf?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408105324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408105325	Well, if so, sir. Morten Messerschmidt asks me if I think there should be a cross-check, where an elderly citizen may be allowed to cross on whether they would have asked off a Muslim scarf, a Jewish calot, a Christian cross, a man with tattoos, a redhead or someone with a different particular appearance, then I say no I don't think you should be entitled to that. That would be discriminatory and illegal and quite wrong. However, whatever causes may be of poor dynamism, I would say that if you have tested a home care provider in a certain elderly person and it does not work well, then I do not think it is good either for the employee or for the citizen to force through that it must continue. So if there is a bad dynamic because of a Muslim scarf or because of a Jewish calot or something else, then I would hope that, for the sake of the employees locally, we also try to solve it by possibly finding someone else or by working on the relationship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408105430	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408105432	Can Mrs Pernille Skipper not see that she is putting the elderly citizen in a very unpleasant situation by saying that it should not be a matter of principle where one can say that one does not want Islam within one's four walls, but rather a specific matter where one has to say that the employee concerned is not welcome. Why would Mrs Pernille Skipper put an elderly citizen in the situation of having to confront a person instead of just having the right to the perfectly reasonable and obvious thing to say: I do not want the Islamic scarf to come within my four walls?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408105504	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408105505	I think sir... Morten Messerschmidt would understand if I said that I also do not think that one should be allowed to say that one does not want the Christian cross within one's four walls if the home helper wears a Christian cross around his neck. Some will probably be very upset about that. So, no, I do not think that we should be allowed to opt out of that as a starting point, just as I do not think we should be able to say that we do not want a male home helper, a red-haired home helper or, in any case, judge in that way. In fact, I remember about my own grandfather, who was an incredibly sweet person, that in some ways he stopped being so sweet at the end of life, and it did not necessarily have anything to do with all sorts of fundamental approaches. The people who help our elderly are exposed to a great deal, especially when they may be dealing with demented. I think that it is wrong that we should also bear the brunt of opting out on paper in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408105612	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408105618	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I am fully aware that the rapporteur has not been involved in negotiating the agreement, but it is still in line with its objectives. I hear the rapporteur in such a way as to say what to say and stress that the rapporteur thinks that this agreement will set the municipalities free. It's such a classic system thought. I just stand up to challenge it and to ask the rapporteur: where is the citizen? Is this not about freeing citizens and allowing citizens to choose on and off? People are different and have different preferences throughout their lives. Some want a municipal offer, while others want a private offer. Isn't it about letting the citizen be a citizen and saying: 'You must of course be able to choose what suits you best?'
ParlaMint-DK_20210408105711	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408105712	That's the goal. I think that is simply what the municipalities are doing or at least want to do. In fact, I believe that all the members of the Council from the Left, the Conservatives, the Social Democrats or the Enhedslist have a similar desire that citizens should have a genuinely free choice in their everyday lives in relation to the way things have to be put together. And the many, many years of laying on top of each other by bureaucracy and rules put the municipalities in a straitjacket, which means that there is no real free choice. In other words, having a free choice between a public and private supplier is not, in my view, what this is all about. I think there are few elderly people who sit and think that their top priority for their home care is to be able to choose whether it is privately delivered or publicly delivered, but that there is quality in home care, that it may be the same one that comes, or that at least the two or three will come, as you know, and that sometimes there is also the possibility of having a chat or being washed on your back a second time or whatever we are talking about. This is what is really a free choice and the introduction of one rule after another, including forcing municipalities to spend a great deal of money on... and Vice-President Thank you). Excuse me, I'm sorry, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408105834	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408105837	I feel completely like when I heard SF's talk about quality, the same home helper, talking and having time and profit and listening to each other. No one disagrees with that. That's just not what's in this bill. I simply have the impression, now that I have heard several red rapporteurs being on the platform, that you are a little cheating on yourself here, because one thing is said from the speaking chair of the Folketing, but what is in this agreement is quite different. What this really is about is giving the individual citizen less choice. You reduce free choice. It is suggested that the municipalities can take away an aid that the citizen has actively chosen. Whether it is a municipal or private help, it is up to the municipalities to deprive an elderly citizen of a given food service scheme, a home help scheme or a rehabilitation scheme. That is what we really want. My business is actually just to ask: why not set the citizens free?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408105936	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408105940	Well, I am sorry that this is how the rapporteur reads this agreement. After all, the intention is to free the municipalities from being able to free the citizens. Because the more we have tensed up the municipalities over the years, the more freedom of action towards the individual elderly has been reduced. After all, it is a question of believing that if the municipalities have the time, opportunity and space to plan for themselves, they will do so in a way that actually benefits the elderly and gives the individual elderly some more freedom. I believe that our council members want that, Mrs Jane Heitmann. In fact, I believe that the members of the Left Council want that in these municipalities too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408110023	Thank you. Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408110026	Thank you very much. Now much has been said about the fact that the municipalities are not free. First of all, I've had 20 years of experience as a home helper. I have 20 years of experience as a municipal politician sitting on the Social Committee, and I also have experience of making legislative proposals in here and trying to correct some of the mistakes that many municipalities are actually making. That is why I would also like to ask the rapporteur what ties the municipalities so much that they want to free them. What kind of minute tyranny does Mrs. Pernille Skipper think is out there? Can we have any examples of what it might be and what would not come after that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408110103	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408110106	Now I have not been an older rapporteur for a long time, but I have been in Parliament long enough to hear Mrs Liselott Blixt mention her past in both local politics and home care. So thank you for reminding us once again. The point of this is to try to free the municipalities from a lot of different rules, and some of what we call the minute tyranny with our politician in here causes the municipalities to deliver a lot in a really short time. For example, the free choice system, where you can choose a private supplier, combined with many years of savings, means that the municipalities have sometimes had bankruptcies in the home care area, where they have to collect the bill and the insecure citizens. The fact that it could be avoided, at least for a period of time, can give some time. It is an example of how we release more time in the municipalities to plan things in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408110207	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408110212	So I understand it's about private home care. That is what we want to avoid, because that is what Mrs Pernille Skipper is pointing out. When you talk about minute tyranny, what is it that makes Mrs Jensen and others get the help that is needed, the employee they are used to, or the possibility of being able to opt out of the employee that they do not want it be a man or someone with a dress or religious attitude that you do not want? There's no choice over this. You keep saying that you are hanging up and hanging up, and there is minute tyranny, but all you can do is that it is because of some private companies that have gone bankrupt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408110251	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408110254	Sorry, I may misunderstand Mrs Liselott Blixt. So, the way I understand the word minute tyranny is that an employee in home care has a very limited number of minutes for a single visit to a citizen who is designed for some very, very specific tasks: 3 minutes for vacuuming, 4 minutes for sink etc. etc. It's the minute tyranny. Where's it coming from? Well, it comes from some extremely pressured municipalities. Both more and more rules and quality standards and very carefully calculated rules in the Services Act etc. combined with savings, the municipalities have to, in order to make it work together and to deliver everything we list in the legislation, to tighten the screw on the individual employee. So the minute tyranny is the screw which, based on our rules and savings and everything else via the municipality, is stifling the professionality of the individual employee and thus also the quality of what the individual citizen gets. It is the minute tyranny, and it is caused by many different things, among others. many years of savings in care for the elderly caused by Christiansborg's lack of prioritising of municipal welfare. Fortunately, that has also stopped.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408110410	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408110414	I did not really intend to say anything, but I was somewhat prompted by the rapporteur's somewhat condescending approach to Mrs Liselott Blixt's earlier work. Fortunately, we are only a few of us here in the Danish Parliament who have actually had a real job before we were elected here and had to sit and deal with the legislation of all Danes around the country. So I actually thought that was a rather strange approach to having actually had a real job and knowing what it is about. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, just as I also asked the Socialist People's Party's rapporteur, whether the rapporteur thinks that it is liberating that the individual elderly can no longer choose from and on their own.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408110459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408110503	I will quickly regret that if it sounded condescending. I will. It was meant to be a loving teasing by Mrs Liselott Blixt, whose professionalism I actually have great respect for. If it was not understood that way, I am very sorry. If what the rapporteur is asking is the free choice system, i.e. the choice between private and public suppliers, I think I have mentioned it, but again I would say that the reason why we are very critical of it in the Enhedslisten is that when you combine it with the many years of savings that have been made, it has not been very much a free choice to deliver the quality and effort that the individual citizen needs, or to create the flexibility of everyday life that the individual citizen needs. It has been a free choice between private and public suppliers, and it has actually caused greater problems in public home care and a higher bill for the public sector, and in Enhedslisten we have been trying to reduce it for many years so that it does not draw so much resources out of public home care and the public cashier.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408110605	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408110611	Thank you. The rapporteur himself says that there are a lot of rules and bureaucracy, and we can agree on that. So, in general terms, politicians both in the municipalities and in here at Christiansborg are interfering too much, and of course we should all not do that. It is also one of our main principles that politicians must decide much less and Danes much more themselves, including over their own money. But what lies in this is that the elderly are no longer able to choose freely. In other words, with this agreement, with this bill, you're actually locking up some older people, if that's what the municipality decides, in a possibly bad municipal offer. Why does Enhedslisten have so little confidence that Danish elders can choose for themselves on an enlightened basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408110701	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408110704	But that's not exactly true. First of all, the three municipalities concerned can still choose to keep it if that is what they want. We set them free, we set the municipalities free, and what we then want to do in the political majority that is in the municipality of Langeland or one of the other two municipalities is up to them. That's what the whole trust exercise is about. Then it may well be that they do not do it in the way I would have wanted, because none of the three city councils have the Device List majority. So that's the whole point. Secondly, this is precisely about releasing some time in public care for the elderly to ensure that you can have a more genuinely free choice and not just a free choice, with regard to which logo is on the car, as a former rapporteur said so well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408110747	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408110753	Thank you. I would like to follow up on that with the minute tyranny, if I can say otherwise, because where is it really, and what are the options available today? Well, I'm also in a town council where I sit with representatives of the Enhedslisten, and we fight together to ensure good care for the elderly and have thus seen a challenge with the municipal council. The municipal council is now being set free. That is to say, the frames that are are disappearing. Today's appeal body, which offers an opportunity to actually appeal and actually get a decision, is disappearing. So how is this gonna ensure that there's actually going to be one if not much better, so certainly not a inferior care for the elderly out there in those municipalities? I mean, are we supposed to believe they just do? We can't appeal, and we can't choose anything else. How are we gonna do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408110848	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408110850	So, basically, the answer is honest: yes, we have to believe that the municipalities and the city councils actually want the best. That's the whole point of this, that is to stop thinking that we in Christiansborg have the only true answers to everything, and that every time we experience a problem in a municipality somewhere in the country, we have to make a rule of law about it. But to believe that the locally elected will actually do the best; that those who work in the care of the elderly will actually do the best for the elderly; and that if we give them the time and space for it, that is also what they want to provide, is the starting point, yes. Then it is true that it means that it is the good and the bad that we are releasing here, and that is also the right of appeal. And as I started my speech by saying, there will be good and bad experiences of this. I do not think that the model we have chosen here is the one we are going to roll out all over the country in three years' time. But I think we have some experience with what we can use for something.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408110954	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408110956	But is there not the basic problem in the model chosen here that there are two things that disappear? One is the free choice that allows the citizen to choose something else if you do not think it is good enough. And the second is the appeal procedure, which allows you to complain about what you get if you do not think it is good enough. See, now Mrs. Pernille Skipper disappeared too. Pernille Skipper It was so good a question that I had to duck). Well, she's back again. So there's no problem? I can be concerned about the elderly who are sitting out there losing the right to do something if they do not think that what they are getting is good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408111030	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408111032	The prerequisite is that you still have the opportunity to choose something else if you are not happy with the offer you have received. Well, it's also part of the deal. But the rigid free choice, which is about choosing a private supplier instead of the public, can be suspended by the individual municipality if they so wish. This does not mean, however, that they should not still have to deliver what the citizens need and that the prerequisite for this is that the quality of care given to each citizen should be increased; that contact, proximity, freedom should be improved. That is the prerequisite. It is true, however, that this means that you believe that local and individual members of the municipal council actually want to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408111119	Thank you. Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408111123	Thank you. Mrs Pernille Skipper has said several times to my fellow rapporteur that the municipalities can choose not to have the option of free elections, and I would like to know whether Mrs Pernille Skipper hopes that the municipalities will do so: does Mrs Pernille Skipper hope that the municipalities will remove the possibility that the citizen will have a free choice on something that is so essential in everyday life? What would Mrs Pernille Skipper call on the Council of Enhedslisten to do? I have to admit that I do not know how many you have in the three municipalities, but if you have some, what would the call be for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408111154	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408111158	I think we do, but I do not remember how many either. I would say that it was up to them, and I would say to them from the Enhedslisten in each city council that they are not told by me what is going to happen, because it is up to them. But I want to be very honest about that, and to say that the right to choose between a private supplier and a public supplier is the same as free choice in the care of the elderly has always been really hollow in my ears, because it is not for me to see at all what this is all about. That is not what we want at the end of life, that is, a fundamental approach to private or public. What you need to be allowed to choose is how time is best spent today when home care comes home, what it is you most need, whether you want to jump a vacuum cleaner over in return for something else. And the question is, do we want to do this in another way, whether we can talk about, as has been talked about, who comes home to him. It's free choice. And the straitjacket in which the municipalities have been, they have not been able to deliver it. So I hope that's what the municipalities are going to use this chance to deliver.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408111307	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408111311	Frankly, I think that Mrs Pernille Skipper is sticking her head in the sand like an ostrich on this question, so I am trying to ask again: does the Enhedslistens Parliamentary Group believe that there must be a free choice, an approved private supplier, which is required right now, in each municipality, and does Mrs Pernille Skipper believe that that opportunity should be there for all elderly people throughout the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408111332	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408111335	What Mrs Abildgaard asked me was whether I was hoping they would make use of that opportunity in the individual municipality, and to that I would just say, as I also started my speech by saying that it is therefore up to them. This also means that there will be some municipalities making choices that I think are stupid. Some rules have also been removed in this, which I do not necessarily think is the smartest thing to do. I think that is part of the premise for the attempt we are making. But no, Enhedslisten does not think that free choice between a private supplier and the government in itself is a free choice, and the experience with that has been that it has only drained our elderly care and has put the municipalities in an even tighter straitjacket. It was as little ostrich as I could deliver in this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408111417	Thank you for that and then there are no further comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen No, sorry, that is Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Welcome back.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408111452	Thank you for that, President. I have had the great honour and pleasure of being rapporteur for the elderly two days ago, so I have looked forward to my first case in this Chamber. I have been on maternity leave in recent months and have therefore not been part of the negotiations leading up to the law being discussed in the Chamber today. That's why I looked at it this way with relatively fresh eyes, and as Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl mentioned earlier, you start by saying welfare law, and that sounds very good. Well, that sounds like something that is basically a positive thing. That was my approach to starting with. Then I looked at the first page of this welfare agreement and read what the purpose of the welfare agreement is and it says, and I quote: "The employees are experiencing more rules that take time away from the core task; to help the citizens as best they can. Then I thought: Fine, it's a problem you've heard of before, and that sounds fair enough; let's see how we can address it and do some tests with it. And then I came to these many fence posts, which like fences, how to make sure this happens in a good and responsible way. There I could see that there must continue to be risk-based supervision................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It all sounds very good, but on these about two sides that are with fence posts, I really did not have a fence post that was about the obvious, namely that the citizens of these three municipalities, Langeland, Middelfart and Viborg, must of course also be given the opportunity to make the choice to get help from a private supplier. I think it is quite crazy that, almost 20 years after the basic principle was introduced, we should be discussing whether this should be a right for the future too. I assume that if you want to do an experiment in these three municipalities, it is because you are playing with the idea of spreading it to the rest of the country, or frankly I think that Christiansborg is wasting the time of the municipalities. If you make this attempt without having the intention of doing so nationally and not just in these three municipalities, I think, frankly, that people are wasting their time. So I am also looking forward to getting an answer to that in the course of the treatment we are going to have here: is it because you are playing with the idea of spreading this to the rest of the country? For the Conservative People's Party, it is a fundamental value that, of course, older people should have the opportunity to make the choice to make use of a supplier other than what the public authorities make available. We have that throughout our lives. We have it from the moment we are born and must be in a day-care institution as little as possible, and that opportunity persecutes us throughout our lives, so of course one must also have the opportunity to make that choice when one gets older and needs help for care, food, etc. We believe that in the Conservative People's Party. And I really think that Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl made a very, very fine speech in which he said many things very precisely. Among other things, he had... a statement that free choice is not unnecessary bureaucracy. I think that is quite appropriate. That's absolutely right, and that's what you're selling this law and this deal on, that's what it's about. I am very excited to see what the three municipalities are going to do, but I hope they will not take advantage of the degree of freedom which unfortunately a majority of Christiansborg is going to give them in this matter, because I think that would be a failure to the elderly. I would just like to end my speech by saying that I look forward very much to becoming wiser in this area. I cannot boast, like Mrs Liselott Blixt, that I have worked for many years in this field, either as a politician or as a private person. I have been employed in a nursing home, but it was a short number of years, and it is a new area for me politically, so I look forward to learning more about it and working with you fellow rapporteurs in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408111847	Thank you. Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408111851	Thank you. I am just a little curious about what the rapporteur thinks is most important. Is it most important that the citizen gets the help that the citizen himself thinks the citizens need, or is it most important what kind of logo is on the uniform of the employee entering the home?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408111912	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408111916	I think the citizen does not really care what the logo is on the employee who comes through the door, but I think that the citizen feels a greater right to self-determination by having the choice between who it is that should come through the door and what it is for a service they provide. A lot of satisfaction studies have been carried out, and we can see that there is generally very, very great satisfaction with the service provided by the private suppliers. There is a quality in itself in having the choice between suppliers. And I think it does something positive, also for the municipal offer, that there is another supplier that you compete against.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408111950	Here you go, Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408111954	I think that's the help you get as you're preoccupied with whether it's good or bad. And then, of course, you have to fix it. However, in relation to what is really free choice, I would like to ask, for example, the rapporteur also mentions nursing homes: the day when a citizen is searched for a nursing home, what is the probability that there is exactly a place in exactly the same nursing home that you yourself have looked for when you actually need it? And is it even realistic to imagine that there are so many available nursing homes, so that citizens really have a free choice on the day they stand and need help, or is there a risk that they will actually take the place that is available?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408112041	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408112044	Well, basically, I believe that there is a very large national geographical difference in this, and I say this subject, subject to the fact that I can still learn more about it. I saw on the City of Copenhagen's website yesterday that they almost literally write that you can forget about it if you have a specific wish for which nursing home you want to go to. So, of course, there can be a difference. However, where there is the possibility today of free choice and that is on what can be delivered in terms of service, in terms of food, in terms of cleaning etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408112118	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408112127	First of all, welcome back to the rapporteur. I have, of course, noticed a transformation which the rapporteur's party has undergone in particular on foreign policy during her absence, among other things. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Marcus Knuth, has been very sharp and clear in terms of Islam's role in Danish society. That is why it is natural to ask the same question to the Conservative rapporteur, whom I had the opportunity to put to the Socialist rapporteurs in the past. Whether or not we, at least in blue camp, can agree that if you, as an elderly citizen, need help, whether it is to get your dinner covered or help to get in the shower or out of bed, you should have the opportunity to disown employees, whether public or private, who wear the Muslim head scarf.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408112204	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408112208	Well, the Conservative People's Party has meant exactly the same thing on foreign policy over the past many years. This has not changed during the months I have been on maternity leave. I think that is exactly the same as my colleague, Mr President. Marcus Knuth, so there is no contradiction between what he and I or the Conservative People's Party stand for. In relation to what the rapporteur specifically asks me: if you feel insecure about getting help in your private home, I think there should be another solution. Then you have to make contact with the municipality, you have to ask for someone else and ask for another private supplier if that option is there. Of course, you should feel comfortable with the treatment you receive in your own home. And whether that insecurity is based on a religion or in all sorts of other things is something you have to talk to the municipality about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408112249	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408112253	Well, I am extremely pleased, both, so to speak: both the convergence within the Conservative People's Party, and then the consensus that may be here between the Danish People's Party and Mrs Mette Abildgaard. What I just want to clarify in order to understand it quite correctly is that one should have the opportunity to opt out of Islamic costumes, even before there has been a scarf in one's living room. In other words, it is not like Mrs Pernille Skipper that we want to make it a private matter between the service provider and the citizen, but that we should have the opportunity to say in advance: I simply do not want that in my doors.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408112323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408112327	This is not something we have discussed in the Conservative Parliamentary Group. So, with that reservation, I would like to take that discussion. I do not think it should be possible in principle to demand in advance which sex, which religion or whatever else is allowed to enter your home. But if there is an aid that you are not comfortable with, which provides a service that you do not think is satisfactory and that makes you unhappy with the public offer, then I think there should be another solution after that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408112349	Thank you. There are no more comments, and then we move on to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408112418	Freedom and free elections have unfortunately been difficult in Denmark anno 2021. We live in a country where the system is characterised by cash thinking, which destroys it for the individual Dane. In the area of the elderly, we have seen numerous examples of how elderly people have been treated in nursing homes and in care for the elderly. I do not think I need mention the examples in concrete terms. We have seen examples from all parts of Denmark, both in relation to our nursing homes, but also in home care. That is why I am very, very much surprised that the government chooses to go this way. Because I have to be honest and say that I was really happy when the Prime Minister told me about these free trials where these municipalities were to be set free. We would have liked everyone to have been released for that matter. But I am very surprised because we actually negotiated a fairly good agreement in the day-off and school area, where this freedom was guaranteed, that it was not possible to do so in the area of the elderly. Apparently, there's a shell. Evidently, the elderly should not think, unfortunately, that a red majority should have the right to a free choice. And we think that's so very, very weird. Because with this agreement you actually cut off Danish elders from having a free choice, at least if the municipality chooses that it should be, and we find that problematic. My grandfather he was an old man in the end. He got pretty old, and he had some local home help. He wasn't happy with that, so he chose something else, and he was really happy about that. And he was an old workman, so I'm not thinking that he's necessarily lifted the liberal banner at most. But he chose something else because he was not satisfied with what he got, and he was happy with what he saw got. Several of the parties and rapporteurs have been up here today and have made it about the logo on the clothes. No, it's about having the opportunity to choose something else if you get something you're not happy with, and that should therefore be your right. So, these are older Danes who, through a long life, have contributed to Danish society and helped build it up, have paid their taxes. And then the thanks are that they have to be forced to go if that's what the municipalities choose to have an offer. It is simply not good, it is simply not right. If we really want to create better opportunities for free elections, and we really want that money to follow the individual elderly, and we want there to be much more freedom and much more free elections • we could, among other things, do so. start by looking at separating the budgets for the care area out in the municipalities. For it is completely imperceptible for the private actors and the self-serving players to see through what, for example, a nursing home really costs. And the same with home care. So that would be a big step in the right direction. This bill and the agreement that were made with the support of only red parties are a major step in the wrong direction, which is why we obviously cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408112738	Thank you. Then there are a few comments. First of all, it is Mrs Birgitte Vad, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408112748	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. Second Vice-President Mrs Birgitte Vind, sorry). Yeah, Wind, that's okay. I understand from the rapporteur that she believes that, as it is today, if you are not satisfied with the care you receive, you can choose someone else. What exactly is the difference between the agreement we are holding here and the situation as it stands today? As I read it and that's what we've adopted... it's like you can actually do it with this deal. Well, if you're not satisfied with what the municipality is delivering, you can ask for some other help. So what exactly is the difference? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408112826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408112828	To be honest, I do not remember whether Mrs Birgitte Vind was involved in negotiating this agreement when we were negotiating. Well, I remember the discussions that were there, and I also remember the feeling I was left with. In fact, I was quite shocked by the red parties and the system thinking that it was an expression of where the municipalities would rather be freed instead of allowing the individual elderly to have free elections. What has been expressed in this agreement is that the fence posts have not been created, as the rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party mentioned earlier. You haven't made a fence stake, so you make sure there's a free choice. This means that the municipalities can actually be free from giving the individual elderly a free choice to choose something else. So that's the real difference. This is a step in the wrong direction and, of course, we do not support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408112915	Thank you. Mrs. Birgitte Wind.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408112918	However, the rapporteur recognizes that this agreement will continue to make it possible to obtain another supplier if you are not satisfied with the help you receive.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408112926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408112928	Now, as I said, I cannot remember whether the rapporteur was sitting with us when we negotiated this agreement, so there is a legal excuse for the rapporteur, but no, what I am saying to the rapporteur is: what is being done with this agreement is to set the municipalities free to fundamentally downgrade and completely exclude the elderly from having both the right of appeal and the freedom of choice. And that is, of course, what is included in the agreement, and that is why we were rapporteurs from the bourgeois bloc who fought bravely and for a long time, because we simply could not imagine that it would be the case that older people were excluded from having a free choice, but unfortunately that is what the agreement did. That is also why we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408113010	Thank you. Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408113015	Thank you. I was thinking once again whether to take the floor, but when the rapporteur stands on the floor and says that the red parties insist on system thinking, I have to take the floor, because that is exactly the opposite of what this agreement represents. System thinking is when, sometime in the morning of time, you made the law of free choice. The free choice is quite fair • people should have the opportunity to choose in relation to their own lives • but when you really had to implement it, and I was involved in that, then you had to make quality standards. One had to define the task in relation to the individual citizen down to the smallest detail. One had to measure how long it would take to put on a support stocking. It was necessary to determine what the price would be in order to carry out the task. It was necessary to calculate transaction costs which were linked to the services provided. If it is not system thinking, what is system thinking?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408113121	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408113124	I am simply glad that the rapporteur is asking that question, because that is precisely an example of politicians interfering too much. This is all about the individual elderly making these choices. That is also why we in the New Citizens' Party have in our policy on the elderly that the money should follow the individual elderly. It should not be something about being able to sit and save money in the municipalities. Nor should it be this system approach that has been characteristic. It must be the individual elderly who actively choose on and off. Now I mentioned, for example. the budgets and accounts for the municipal, i.e. public, services in the area of the elderly. This would be a major step in the right direction to ensure that there would be far more, for example, free nursing homes, because the municipal council could also see through what the money is really going to do. So that would be a big step in the right direction. But removing the free choice from the elderly, which means, for example, that they can choose some others to take care of their home care, is an expression of system thinking, and it is really a bad idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408113223	Here you go, Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408113227	I wonder what the world would look like if it were really the case that you, as an old and weak person, had to hire and fire your own home helper. I wonder if you'd be able to do that at all. I believe that older people are entitled to receive exactly the help they need at the moment when the problem arises, and we as a society must provide that help. Can the rapporteur not be confident that, as a society, we are actually able to provide exactly that help to the citizen?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408113305	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408113307	Basically, I believe that the individual elderly know what they want. I think we have seen numerous examples of both the elderly and the elderly who are affected by dementia, for example, having relatives who then enter. In the examples we have seen from, for example, the nursing homes, it has been the relatives who have shouted guard in arms and who have been rolled by the system. So, in general, I have very much confidence that the Danish families with the elderly can take care of themselves, where it is that the elderly must live, what kind of care they want, and otherwise opt out of it if they get a bad offer. If that is not possible, then there will also be solutions to it. That is quite, very few, but I am very confident that it will be possible to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408113351	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And after a dissipation, thank you for that, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408113419	In the Liberal Alliance, we are very much in favour of municipal autonomy. We would also like municipal autonomy to be even greater than it is today. In many ways we really think that Swiss society, where cantons decide much more than central government, is exemplary in terms of being a decentralised society, and we would like to move in that direction in Denmark. But there are also some things that we do not want to be involved in. When we in Denmark have decided all sorts of things that the municipalities have to deliver, and when we, for example, reach. has decided that they should provide cash assistance to citizens, if they need it, then it does not provide an opportunity for the municipalities to say that in our municipality we do not have cash assistance or that in our municipality we only have half cash assistance. No, there is only one cash assistance in Denmark, and all municipalities must provide it. When we decide that the municipalities must provide school services to children in the primary school, that is the way it is, and the municipalities cannot question that, and we even give the municipalities an extra term, namely that if parents choose a free school or a private school, a share of the money must be passed on to the free and private school. We also have rules for the municipalities to provide care for the They have to provide care for the elderly at a certain level, and that level today also includes, as in primary school, that if the elderly prefer to have their elderly care from a private service company, a private home care company, then the municipality must pass the money on to the private company at the choice of the elderly. This law, which contains a number of things, mainly involves the fact that in three municipalities we are now going to try to ensure that the municipalities do not have to give the elderly the free choice, that they can choose a private provider of public home care. There is a majority in favour of experimenting with this, i.e. that the municipalities should not have a free choice for the elderly in relation to home care, and it must be understood that this experiment will only begin, because if you have certain experiences with the experiment, it will have to be spread throughout the country. It is hard to imagine that attempts are being made, knowing that this should not lead to the experiment being carried out in the rest of the country. You set it in motion because you think there should be an opportunity to implement it throughout the country; that is why you do it. And, of course, the rights of the elderly are being curtailed. It is felt that the municipalities should have more rights to decide that municipal care for the elderly should come from the municipality itself, but the rights of the elderly are restricted. The right then to choose another provider of care for the elderly, if you think that the municipality is not the best provider of care for the elderly, disappears for the elderly. I do not understand why there can be parties in this Chamber today who believe that it is the best system in the world that we have the opportunity for parents to choose free schools and private schools for their children with public money, while it is now thought that it is a good idea for the elderly to restrict a system that works in about the same way. Why is it that is good in the area of school that is bad in the area of the elderly? But why do the SF and the Radical Left think that what is a right for parents and children to choose primary school should not be a right for elderly people to choose care for the elderly? I don't understand. For me, it is a difference between people depending on their age or depending on the benefit they are to receive, so some are A-people • it is parents and children; they must have the right to choose a private offer • while others are B-people, and it is the elderly who have to choose the care of the elderly. They do not have the right to choose a private offer, because that right will not be denied to them. I think it is amazing that there are parties that usually pride themselves on not being as systematic as socialists who choose to be at least as systematic as social democrats in this case and stand up for an attempt that restricts citizens' freedom to choose alternative solutions, which, of course, is an attempt to pave the way for this to be done throughout the country; otherwise we will not get started. We are going to vote against this very much, and the Folketing, including the Red Part of the Folketing, can be 100% sure that if there comes a blue majority again at some point, it will be abolished here with the vons. The experimental scheme will be abolished with the vons The guarantee we give to the elderly: if there is a blue majority, they will again have the right to choose an alternative to municipal care for the elderly in the private sector with money from the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408113921	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408113925	It's a shame that the Liberal Alliance has only spotted a tiny corner of this deal. So, where in this agreement does the rapporteur see that this proposal means that three municipalities are abolishing free elections? That is not a prerequisite. What the agreement is about is asking the three municipalities to say: how do we do the best we can? Perhaps the municipalities will come to the conclusion that it makes sense to have one supplier in a municipality, because it offers more flexibility and thus the opportunity to do things differently or in a different way or better or anything else. It could just as well be a private supplier as it could be a municipal supplier. However, the proposal gives the municipalities the freedom to consider what is needed if they are really to abolish bureaucracy and create more air for better welfare. Where does the rapporteur see this as the abolition of free elections? It's nowhere in the deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408114028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408114032	For us, this isn't a corner. For us, it is absolutely crucial that we also see the difference between the positions of the various parties, some parties attach importance to one, and other parties attach importance to the other, and for us, free choice is absolutely central, so if it is attacked in a legislative proposal, it is at the heart of this legislative proposal. As I said here, it provides an opportunity for municipalities to abolish free elections, and we do not want municipalities to have that opportunity, because we think it is a right for the elderly to have free elections, just as we do not want to allow municipalities to abolish the free choice of school. We do not want that. And I actually believe that it does not want the SF either, that is, that the SF does not want to abolish the right to free choice in the field of school, but that is what SF wants in the area of older people, and that is what the SF has to explain. Why does the SF want to make the difference between children and parents and the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408114135	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408114140	In fact, I do not think that there is any legislation at all as bureaucratic as this law in the area of the elderly. That is why it makes quite a lot of sense to examine whether things can be done differently and also better in the area of the elderly. It is, like the agreement, that it must also be improved and it must also be better experienced. What is most important to the rapporteur? Is it that the citizen really has a say in what tasks it is that need to be carried out in the citizen's own home, or that the citizen is given the opportunity to choose that it is one logo or another logo? Because it is surely the same tasks that are being solved, whether it is one or the other that comes to the home. What is most important is the logo or influence on the help to be given at home?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408114217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408114220	Both are important to us and therefore we will not abolish one option. And to this, as Mrs Kirsten Normann has said several times, there is the fact that this is about a logo: that is not what is at issue. It is about different institutions and different employers organising work differently, and there is a difference in how skilled they are at managing their employees, etc. So even the same employee who is employed somewhere can do a good job, but if he is employed somewhere else, he can do a bad job because the management in one place works better than the management in the other place. So I don't understand that talk about logos all the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408114253	There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Then we need one rapporteur, and that is Mrs Birgitte Vind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408114317	Thank you. For almost four decades, changing governments have had the intention to reduce the amount of bureaucracy in the public sector, but we just have to note that ambitions have not been met, on the contrary. Today we have a public sector with a lot of detailed management, where rigid rules do not always make sense, neither for the employees concerned nor for the citizens. And in our zeal here at Christiansborg to check, measure and assess whether the public sector is now also delivering, we have come to tape the sector so strongly that citizens and employees can barely breathe. Therefore, the time has come to create opportunities for the development of governance in local areas, and this time not from Christiansborg, but from where much of the welfare is created, namely in the municipalities. We already agreed with the 2020 economic agreement that municipalities and regions should work to show how time can be set free for the administration of rules and bureaucracy to solve the core task. But all of us sitting in this Chamber also know that this is much easier said than done. The many years of constant savings and efficiency have created norms and cultures that go deeper than what is just on a piece of paper. That is why it is not enough to talk about removing bureaucracy. The people who experience the mechanisms of governance at the very nearest level, the people who have to provide welfare, must help to create new paths. And we must have those who are in contact with citizens engage in dialogue with citizens and point out how welfare can be provided in a way that makes sense. The government has entered into agreements with seven municipalities to take the lead and unleash professionalism and proximity. Thank you to the parties involved in the agreement, both the parties involved in the agreement in the field of children and education and the parties involved in the agreement in the area of the elderly, which is what we are discussing today. The parties behind the agreement agree that there is a need to show more confidence, to create more freedom, to provide room for common sense and greater quiet and, above all, to provide room for local solutions close to the citizen. And the bill that we have to deal with now must ensure that managers and employees can free themselves as much as possible from state and local regulation in order to develop welfare and to create greater quality, proximity and professionalism. And I think it is important that we focus on that being the intention. With this law, three municipalities will have a freer framework to show us how to do this, and I have very great hopes for this new break, which is the agreement, and I really look forward to seeing what experience is being gained in the three municipalities selected. I know they're looking forward to it. In fact, they have already started, and so it doesn't matter whether it's the left-wing municipality or a social-democratic-run municipality... you have your hands above your head, and both staff and management are looking forward to taking action. Social democracy supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408114632	There are brief comments, first from Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408114637	I would just like to ask the rapporteur something. When you do an experiment with this in a number of selected municipalities, is it because you are playing with the idea of spreading it to the rest of the country and removing the opportunity for the elderly to choose a private supplier in the rest of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408114650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408114653	After all, the three municipalities here in the area of the elderly have been elected because we have to start somewhere, and the removal of legislation throughout the country at once without knowing what works and what makes sense, I think would be irresponsible. In relation to free elections, I can hear that the bourgeois parties, including the rapporteur's own party, are very attached to this very detail of free elections. But it is actually the case that there are already many municipalities that cannot offer free elections because there are no private suppliers. So I think you get stuck with a thing that's totally unnecessary. Because we don't really know if the municipalities are making use of this opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408114734	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408114738	I think it is quite crazy that the Social Democrat rapporteur refers to the possibility that our elderly can have a free choice with something as sensitive to those who are as crucial to their everyday lives as a detail. Is it a detail of my life who comes into my home and provides the most personal service, care, care for me in my everyday life? I would just like to give the Social Democrat rapporteur the opportunity to correct himself. Is it really a detail that you have an option as an elderly person in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408114804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408114808	As I heard from the rapporteur earlier, it is not the logo that matters, but the person who comes in and the people who are employed both in the private and public care of the elderly are doing their best every day to provide a good service. I'm sure there's no difference in that. What this bill is really about is whether the municipalities can see that it is better for them not to have to enter with a private supplier. But again: we do not know whether the municipalities choose it, and that is not the same as the fact that the citizens do not get a good service, that they cannot choose a supplier from the private sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408114844	Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408114853	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteurs and also welcome them to the Assembly. The rapporteur calls this a new break. I just have to say that we on the Left actually believe that it is a huge setback, that we are putting the free elections under pressure to such an extent. But it is, of course, the privilege of a red government that this kind of legislative proposal can be put forward. The rapporteur says here that there are a number of municipalities that do not offer free elections today, and I am just a little curious to ask: which municipalities do not offer free elections today? It's kind of new knowledge for me just to be completely honest. So if perhaps the rapporteur would just like to list three or four five pieces up, which really do not offer a free choice, that would be nice. I'd like to hear something else, too. One of the previous rapporteurs, the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, who has left the Chamber now, mentioned that we would like to end the minute tyranny, and I can hear that the Socialist rapporteur is on the same ball street, that is to say that we want to end bureaucracy. But the FOA points out that it is unclear and uncertain how to actually do it. Could the rapporteur just give us a point of reference?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408114957	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408115000	In relation to municipalities which cannot provide free choice, it is simply a matter of sending it in tenders, so it is not certain that anyone is bidding on it. There are also articles that private suppliers simply cannot deliver it at the price that the municipalities can offer. This is a well-known problem, and I know that the rapporteur of the Left is aware of it. Compared to the minute tyranny, I have a really good example of a social and health worker and now I can see that time is running up here, which has been given 6 minutes for an evening visit to a citizen, and when the guest comes in the door, he can see that it says on the note that food needs to be warmed and the food has to be in the microwave for 7 minutes. It goes without saying that, before this social and health worker has even come through the door and has come out again, more than the 7 minutes and the 6 minutes allocated to the visit have passed. Frankly, these are not proper working conditions, and that is not a good service for our older citizens either.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408115059	Jane Heitmann, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408115102	I have to ask: have the Social Democrats made such a baseline so that we can, like, see here in a few years' time, when this experiment has run to the end, how much less minute tyranny there is? Well, where are we today? How do the Socialists know what they are measuring from? I do not see that there is any mention of this in the draft law, so I am genuinely curious about what status is today and where the Socialists want to go when they want to do away with the minute tyranny. Well, what's baseline? And then I just ask again: what is it concrete for municipalities that really do not have a free choice today? The rapporteur still owes an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408115132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408115135	When we talk about baseline, it is, of course, because we are asking the municipalities to find out what works out with them and that is why we should not sit here and have the completed answers. Because then there was no reason to try. I mean, this is about setting the municipalities free to figure out what works for them, and I'm sure something comes out of this that we hadn't seen that we hadn't understood to come up with in here. So I have very, very much confidence in the municipalities. In relation to the municipalities, I can think of one here on a stand-by basis, such as: The municipality of Langeland, which I know has had difficulty with, but I also know that the rapporteur is aware of the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408115214	Thank you. That's where Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl just at the last minute pressed himself into a brief remark. Here you go, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408115223	Thank you. This was just the example of having 6 minutes for a visit, and then the food had to be 7 minutes in the oven. What's this bill gonna do about it? I'm thinking it sounds weird. If you haven't solved it in advance, I don't think this bill will either. And if you then have a decision on what you can get and would like to appeal to it, then with the rules that have been laid down now, there is no real appeal, and then you have to take what you get. Isn't that a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408115247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408115252	With the law we are discussing today, we propose that employees should be thought into and should have much more to say in relation to how we organise the aid. So there will clearly be another governance. The employee who has given me this example says, for example:: If only this wasn't so square on my paper, because I'm being measured and weighed on whether I'm taking care of my time, and if the citizen has been delivered exactly what it says on this piece of paper, but I know that something else is needed here today and something else tomorrow, so if I had that freedom. But the employee is terrified of running outside the framework, so we need to remove the framework that makes the employees unable to think for themselves and to get their professionalism to unfold. In other words, if citizens are given the opportunity to be consulted much more in the organisation of care for the elderly, then it is clear that there will be more satisfaction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408115351	Thank you. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408115355	Thank you. Well, I'm just gonna have to take that example out again. Because is it from in here that we have defined that you get 6 minutes for a visit that needs 7 more minutes? Isn't that something you could have just done? Well, what is it that doesn't mean you couldn't have just solved it today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408115411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408115414	What I hear the mayors say to me is that these quality standards help to set a framework. And you may in fact be restricting yourself, and the municipalities may also limit themselves, more than we may have dictated from here. I would like to agree entirely with the rapporteur on this point. But the fact that we have these quality standards also means that we must be able to measure and weigh it precisely whether it is a private or a public supplier coming through the door, and it must be absolutely the same. So we're not gonna leave that opportunity right now to make that difference, and this law is gonna give us that opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408115447	Then we can thank the rapporteur, because there are no more brief comments. After a despriting in which we have finished the rapporteur's series, it is the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408115509	Thank you for that, President. Nice to have you in the chair. I would like to start by signing off on the receipt of the bill and what I would call an extremely good and, above all, very committed debate in this Chamber. After all, an elderly minister is delighted when both new and old, I was just about to say, because now we should not talk about people's age in this way, but so experienced older rapporteurs throw themselves into the debate in this way. After all, the debate shows that there are quite a few of us who think that this agenda on less bureaucracy, less detailed management is important and that we must do away with what suffocates professionalism out there, strangles the presence, the dedicated employee's task solution with the older citizen, who, I believe, is the greatest expert in his own needs and also quite the day-to-day needs. I also have to say that I have sat on a small smile and listened to the debate, because it also shows how unlikely it is when we have to take a step back here at Christiansborg. It is actually very, very difficult to find a broad majority behind this bill, which I had hoped for, and indeed expected, when I heard the very positive reception when the Prime Minister launched the idea here from the platform at the opening debate. So it's not simple. The Prime Minister also predicted that it would end up being difficult for us to step back at Christiansborg. It's harder than you'd think to admit that we don't always know the best in here. It is now a quite sound realization, I think, and that is the recognition on which the whole idea of the welfare agreements with the seven municipalities is based. Then this also shows how difficult it is for us in here not to conclude in advance. I heard quite a lot of rapporteurs who have already concluded how the municipalities are going to use it here and who emphasise that it is a problem that we should not at this stage point point out what results are coming, what solutions are being taken to ensure that Mrs Jensen is given a care with more presence, with greater quality, with greater coherence, greater confidence and security, greater knowledge of the employees who are better suited to the everyday life and the reality that no human being is of course equal two days, but these are the different standards, etc. This is not easy, and today's debate has shown it incredibly well. I have been fortunate enough to have had talks with all the mayors in the three municipalities, and I can say that you are so ready out there, it bubbles with energy and zeal, and there are lots of ideas on the part of the employees, the elderly, the elderly, the Elders' Local Departments, from all the most important places in our care of the elderly, namely out there, where help, care and care are being delivered, and they look forward to getting started and hope that we can live up to what we have committed ourselves to, namely that we should step back. It is a legislative proposal that implements the political agreement reached in the autumn in the area of the elderly. It was an agreement between the Government, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the Free Greens and the Alternative. And we have spent quite a long time on it now, so I think that everyone who had to keep up knows that this is about freeing the municipalities from the vast majority of state and municipal regulations in the area of the elderly and doing so for three years. So it's all about starting with a blank piece of paper. Instead of the various liberation attempts that have taken place over the past 20 years, which have removed individual provisions and made it very sporadic, this is about dared to go quite far, and so we do. The aim is, of course, to gain experience which will benefit not only the elderly in the three municipalities in the area of the elderly here, but all parts of the country. We believe that through local solutions and through the knowledge that lies in the relationship between the professionally skilled employee and the elderly citizen who needs help, better welfare can be achieved. That, in fact, is also the prerequisite for the agreement here. With greater freedom, there is also a responsibility to deliver better welfare and better solutions. After all, we are not the first government to say and make the attempt to free the public sector more, give more room for professionalism, weed out into bureaucracy, let the citizen and the citizen's concern be what is most central, because I think the governments have done that since I went to kindergarten, where the Conservatives held the Prime Minister's post. The fact that we still have that discussion here in 2021 shows something about how difficult it is to get ashore with that ambition, and that is why we are doing something rather drastic on the part of the government and with the bill here. We think it is necessary if we are to move forward with this discussion for the benefit of our citizens, for the benefit of our well-being and the quality that is so important to everyone. There is no doubt that it takes a great deal of political courage to do this. It does so on our part, it does so on the part of the three municipal councils, and I think they will have to slap themselves over their fingers once in a while. I know that they have decided everywhere to do the processes enormously involving, so it is the citizens, so they are the relatives, so it is the employees who are very much guiding in terms of ideas development. In some places real welfare panels have been created, and so there are various involving processes in the different municipalities, and that is so great, and that is why we as a municipal politician need to take the step out there. They have committed themselves to this in the agreement on welfare agreements with the government. There is no doubt that citizens must experience more closeness, better care, better care, by providing professionally competent staff with a more free environment to create better welfare with the citizens, together with the relatives. This also means that the very fixed framework for how and in what form the aid is to be delivered is relaxed, so that you have the opportunity to experiment on how to design personal and practical help, food, service, rehabilitation, free choice of supplier and the municipalities' own supervision. But it is very, very central as a fence stake, which is indispensable that the citizen should continue to have the help and care that the citizen needs, and that is why the parallel from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's side to decide in one municipality to provide half cash assistance and in another decide to provide full cash assistance, of course not, because citizens still have to have all their help needs covered. The possibilities will be to do so in a completely new way, but there is the clear fence post that the citizen must still have the help and care that the citizen needs, the citizen must have a written decision on aid that can be complained of, the Patient Safety Agency must continue to be able to supervise, and the municipalities will continue to have an elderly council, which will be a very important player in all the work here. Various things have been raised from the platform, and I am sure that we will have a very good committee, so I will not give a very long answer, because then I could stand here for an incredibly long time, but I would just like to clarify briefly and in fact to the Danish People's Party, which raises the Alzheimer's point of getting professionalism and care into the purpose clause, saying that we have accepted that consultation note and written it into the law so that it has already been complied with. I am glad that the Danish People's Party thought it was right for us to do so. I will then have to add a few words to what has probably been the big debate, even though I think that some conclusions are being drawn that are not covered and some conclusions that are rather premature, namely the whole debate on free elections. Mrs Jane Heitmann, the Left's older rapporteur, actually says this very, very well, I think, when she says, if it would not be exciting to see new forms of public-private cooperation. The same applies to the Elders' case in their consultation reply, i.e. if we do not need to see new forms of public-private cooperation, public-private partnerships. That is exactly what will be possible with the agreement here. In the text of the agreement we state that we must ensure that older citizens continue to have the opportunity to obtain another offer in the event of dissatisfaction with the aid provided. It is as if it has slipped a little out of the discussion here in the Chamber. However, with the agreement here, it is possible that in a municipality they can say in principle that they only want private suppliers, that they believe so much in the bliss of the purely private sector that they want only private suppliers. It has not been a subject that has been raised in the debate here, but it is an opportunity. It is possible to say that they will make a completely new approach to private-public cooperation, that they will create a partnership in which they say that you must offer everything and that there must be food for rehabilitation, because it must also be a cooperation with civil cooperation, where loneliness is combated and where preventive home visits are carried out. In fact, I had decided not to give such specific examples here, because that is what we should not do, because we do not know best here, we do not know best. It is Liselott Blixt's old colleagues in the running home care, Mette Abildgaard's old colleagues from the nursing homes, and perhaps some of my old colleagues in home care know best, because that is what this is based on. We must not think that we in Christiansborg always know the best, because then we will have the over-management and detailed regulation of our care of the elderly, which means that the real freedom of choice of the elderly is as limited as they are. I think it is a pity that the discussion we have had today has become so pessimistic that it has become so negative with a black-eyed view of what the municipalities are going to use these opportunities for. I look forward very much to seeing what comes out of it, and I do not share that view and that concern at all. The municipalities have undertaken that with more freedom they will also be responsible for delivering better results. And then I would say that the municipalities are led by politicians who have to answer to their electorate and that we have older people's councils that are involved, we have civil society, that is, relatives who are involved out there, so you will have a lot of good debates there too. Now, sir. Ole Birk Olesen left, but I just wrote down that he said that choosing another supplier is the ultimate freedom and that we are now taking it from the citizens, but I just want to say that I believe and hope that we can guarantee citizens greater freedom than today. For today you are searched for a set of services, and they can then be provided by one supplier or another, and it has a problem in itself, because two days are not the same for the elderly. Everyone who has worked in the care of the elderly will know that two days are not the same, it is not necessarily the same need, one day you have the other day. One day the legs may be more swollen, and it takes longer to put on the stockings than the other day, and one day you may be much more upset, need a talk, which may in fact be more important than the bath, than the other day. I really hope that we will see the innovation bouncing out there so that we can have a much more free choice for the elderly on the basis of the elderly, not on the basis of the system. I know that the bourgeois people have been very busy saying that this is system thinking, but today we have a system that works on the basis of the system and not on the basis of the elderly. I very much hope that we will see a whole lot of innovation out there, and that is why I am also sorry that it is so much a black-eyed view that has marked that part of the discussion here today. But, of course, I will look forward to answering all the questions that may be there, all the concerns that may be about it in committee, and that is why I think I will hold up now. I am sure you have some questions, although I have tried to gather a little along the way, and I am actually also taking the time, so before the President gets really tough on me, I just want to say thank you for the debate and that I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408120652	It is true that there are brief comments. First, it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408120657	Thank you. The Minister mentioned that there had been a positive reception of the Prime Minister's launch of this in the New Year's speech. And there was also because the Prime Minister presented the opportunity to give something more freedom to the municipalities, but she just forgot to mention in a helping out that this should happen at the expense of restricting the freedom of the individual elderly. It was as if there was no room for that part of the Prime Minister's New Year's speech. And the Minister is annoyed that there cannot be a broad majority behind the bill being discussed today, but I think that could be achieved if you were willing to register a fence stake, which is about exactly this point, where it is precisely stated that there may be an opportunity to provide additional degrees of freedom in relation to the use of private suppliers, but not the possibility of restricting the use of private suppliers. So I just want to hear from the Minister if you are willing to sign in such a fence stake, because then I promise the Minister that the mood will be reversed with a finger-tip in this Chamber, and then there will be a smile and a good mood at least close by.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408120757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408120759	You should never refuse to be happy with all smiles and good spirits. But I would actually like to quote the Prime Minister here on the platform, because it was something that created enthusiasm widely when she launched it here in the opening speech. But she also pointed out what is the problem here today. She said, 'Cause if it's gonna work, we're gonna have to have the courage to go all the way. We also need to remove rules that our parties have fought to put in place. This is what is so misunderstood in today's debate that it has become a debate for and against yes, that is, mostly in relation to a particular rule. But the whole point here is that we have to take a step back and say: in relation to these three municipalities, which are given complete extensive freedom, we start almost on a blank sheet; so blank a sheet that has been possible at all for us, while there still has to be, for example, a blank sheet. the basic assurance that you will get the help you need and that you will be able to manage patient safety and so on. That's the prerequisite.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408120902	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408120903	We Conservatives are, in fact, willing to remove the rules we have introduced ourselves, but we are not willing to remove the right that we have introduced ourselves, because it is damaging the elderly. The right to free elections can soon celebrate the 20th anniversary of the 20th anniversary. Does the Minister believe that this should happen, or is the Minister open to completely abolishing free elections if, according to the Minister's assessment, it proves to be successful in these municipalities? Does the Minister want to spread it to the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408120932	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408120934	I simply think it is so unfortunate that such a negative conclusion is reached in advance. So, I hope we will see some new forms of public-private innovation partnerships, new ways of delivering aid adapted to the three very different municipalities in relation to a welfare agreement. Because I do not believe that one solution is the right one in all our municipalities either. It is also such a system that we have today, where you act as if it is one size fits all, if you can say so in English here from the platform. So we believe that we have to give this vast freedom if we are to deliver a different result from that of changing governments since the Conservatives last had the Prime Minister's post.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408121013	Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408121014	Thank you and thank the Minister for taking the floor. Well, I can just say that I am sitting and being completely excited and happy when I hear the Minister's speech here about how important it is to be able to take a step back. After all, on 17 May we will be dealing with a motion for a resolution here in the Parliamentary Assembly, which deals with the attempted extension of the free municipalities. It is the Left that has put forward this proposal because we would like to set 98 municipalities free and not just 7, and now I hear with total commitment from the Social and Seniors Ministers that we really must dare to take a step back, so I would just like to say from here that I look forward to the Social Democrats voting in favour of setting not only 7 municipalities but 98 municipalities free of course. I can say that quite without having drawn a conclusion that is not covered, because I have heard the Minister say that we must dare to resign. I asked a question in my rapporteur's speech, pointing out that the FOA believes that it is both uncertain and unclear how the draft law here will release staff resources that can create increased presence and quality. I did not hear the Minister reply to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408121127	We'll get it now. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408121128	Thank you. We should not, of course, be dealing in advance with a motion for a resolution from the Left that will be in the Chamber in a few moments, but I would just like to say that the attempts at free municipalities, which are what the Left is proposing, are something we have had in various ways since the right of challenge was introduced, it was not 2008. It has not been the revolution one hoped for, and what one would have seen when evaluating was, on the one hand, that it was too pointless and, on the other hand, that it requires very strong local ownership, and one has not been able to carry it. This is what we are doing now by starting this by concluding agreements with three municipalities, i.e. between the government and three municipalities. It's a whole new way to go about this. I think we need to do this in a completely new way. I do not think we have such complete system-changing results since the challenge rights were created back in 2008. Then I would say to the end, in the 15 seconds I have, that if we could point out in advance how we are going to be able to free up the resources that ensure better care and care for the elderly, then there was no reason to try. That is why it is a rather strange criticism that because we cannot point out in advance what solutions are being developed through a very innovative experiment, that is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408121236	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408121237	Well, I have one of them. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has listened to the Enhedslisten, that is to say the Socialist Party, stand here and say that we must have a fight with the minute tyranny. Well, you must have thought about what it is quite specifically you have to get out of this. I understand the wonder that is in the FOA, where you think that it is fine for the government to put forward a bill, but that there is no point in getting there. I can also hear that the Minister has no idea what to say, so I am just taking note of that. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408121305	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408121306	Or maybe it'll be a little too lame, huh? In fact, I also said in my speech that I really intended that I would not be giving concrete examples of what I think could be extremely exciting to do locally and where I think there could be gains to be gained by changing the organisation of help, care and care for the elderly, because that is just like the whole point. It is not Mrs Jane Heitmann or the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly or Mrs Birgitte Vind who knows best. We could also see this in the study by VIVE of the social area during the Corona crisis: the innovative new solutions have come from the front workers in the meeting with the citizens. I can't believe the Left is so afraid of releasing that power.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408121343	Then it is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408121346	Thank you very much. In fact, I think that we all want the best for our elderly and want the best for our staff, but sometimes it sounds like they're really feeling bad in all the municipalities out there. Now I know that the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly has been elected in my municipality, where I have been chairman, and I just have to say that there they are very happy, including the staff. It just sounds like all the employees fear their jobs and so on, and I think that is a shame for the profession, because it may discourage some from becoming a social and health worker and social and health assistant. I would like to know as the health rapporteur: how do we ensure that those in the municipality are not discriminated against under health legislation and those under social legislation? There is really a big difference, even when you need urgent help and an emergency bedroom in the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408121432	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408121434	Well, first of all, I would like to make it very, very clear that I very much agree with Mrs Liselott Blixt that there are many employees out there who are extremely committed, enormously dedicated and who, within the framework that is today, are really pushing for innovation and innovation and, moreover, sometimes also bend the rules to do what is best for the elderly they care about. So I very, very much agree with Mrs Liselott Blixt that we should not talk down under the floorboards. It is, after all, the belief in it and the recognition of what is the driving force here. We must take a step back, and indeed the municipal councils must do so, because the crucial knowledge lies with the citizens, the employees, the relatives. That's what we're gonna be freed here. Then there is the fence in relation to the health law and the various things that ensure patient safety and patient rights. And I think that would be a good thing to unfold in the committee procedure; then you can get quite specific answers to that, because that is what has been taken into account in the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408121535	Mrs. Liselott Blixt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408121537	I ask because we know that there are municipalities thinking of putting it under social legislation, because then the elderly themselves will have to pay for accommodation and food at home. But if you are admitted under health legislation, it is the municipality that has to pay because you save a bedroom in the hospital. So I think it is incredibly important to go along, that is, to ensure that the municipalities do not think in such a way. I hope you can respond to that, even if you set the municipalities free, so that you can react if you can see that something is being done that is inappropriate. Then I would like to hear: when you say that you are setting someone free from seeing where there are some things that can be done about, will you also look at whether the service framework can be set up in the municipalities so that you can actually give the economy you want to do in the municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408121616	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408121617	I think it is going to mean quite a lot that we are making these attempts on the backs of a government that has actually kept up with the increasing number of elderly people in the municipalities so far, after all, with an annual boost of over 3 billion. kr., and in a few moments we are debating community finances again, and we are planning that the money should keep up again and through a compensatory reform has moved 1.4 billion. kr. Every year to the municipalities that are in our outlying districts, where there are typically many elderly people and many weakened elderly people. It's on the back of it that you're about to get started on this, and I think that means a lot. Because I think over-management is part of the explanation for the state of our care for the elderly, but I also think that under-financing explains part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408121656	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408121712	The debate is open. It is the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Elderly who is already going to speak again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408121732	Thank you. I took the liberty of refraining from drinking because I knew that I was going to be standing here again; then we could save both a little time and a little alcohol. I'm gonna blow it off before the next player gets up. With the proposal, the proposer wants to help involuntarily childless to have a child by legalizing voluntary surrogate agreements according to the Canadian model. I have great sympathy for those couples who want to have a child, but who cannot have their wish fulfilled by nature. In that situation, childless people will do much to have children, and some will do anything. I believe that we all have a great understanding of this, just as I fully agree that the proposal to legalise surrogate agreements has been borne by a sympathetic desire to help involuntarily childless people. Having said that, the government cannot support the proposal. In the proposal the proposer writes: "If, for one reason or another, you cannot have children, there is no help in the form of surrogate mothers. We should change that. I do not agree with that, and the government does not agree with that, and my speech could end here. Now we spent a long time on the previous debate and then we could save time, but I will not do that, because the question of surrogate motherhood is not so black and white. It is more nuanced and it is an issue on which there are a wide range of serious ethical dilemmas. This is particularly true when we talk about commercial surrogate motherhood, but it also applies to so-called altruistic surrogate motherhood, that is to say, the form of the desire to help. Carrying a child in his stomach for 9 months to give it away after birth cannot be compared to e.g. donating semen or eggs. There are always physical risks in pregnancy and childbirth, also in a prosperous society such as the Danish one. And what if the surrogate mother regrets? Then perhaps questions may arise as to who is entitled to the child. In addition, there are particular ethical problems when there are payments involved, namely the risk of women being exploited by wealthy childless couples in a vulnerable economic situation, as well as the risk of children becoming a commodity and something to be bought. That is why we in Denmark have very restrictive rules in the area of surrogate motherhood. It is therefore not possible to conclude a legally valid surrogate agreement that a woman gives birth to a child, which she subsequently gives up for adoption to another. It is also illegal for health professionals to assist infertility in the case of surrogate motherhood, and third-party contact between childless couples and surrogate mothers is punishable. The proposal to extend access to voluntary surrogate agreements according to Canadian model will change the Danish rules. The proposal seeks, among other things, to: to allow a third party to facilitate contact between childless and altruistic surrogate mothers. The proposal specifies that this may happen as long as the surrogate receives no remuneration but only receives the actual costs of pregnancy and childbirth. However, if we have first opened up the possibility of communicating surrogate agreements where the surrogate mother does not receive remuneration, it can in practice also open the way for surrogate agreements with remuneration, because it will simply be too easy to circumvent a ban on remuneration. This means that there is a risk that children will become a commodity in which companies will be able to offer for payment to find suitable surrogate mothers. At the same time, we want to remove the protection of women who are in a vulnerable or difficult economic situation from being exploited. I know that the proposal is aimed solely at surrogate agreements where the surrogate mother does not receive remuneration, but in practice, in my opinion, it will be very difficult to enforce a ban on commercial surrogate agreements. This is because, in reality, we cannot effectively ensure that a surrogate mother does not receive remuneration, but only receives payment that only covers her pregnancy expenses. The proposal will therefore actually open up commercial surrogate agreements. The government doesn't want that. We know from other countries that allow commercial surrogate motherhood that there are surrogate mothers who come from low-income families. Their primary motive for participating in a surrogate scheme is economics. They see surrogate agreements as a source of income. It is here in particular that there is a risk of exploitation. For example, a study from Ukraine, where commercial surrogate motherhood is legal, shows that many surrogate mothers consider the surrogate motherhood to be a job and define the clinics and the intended parents as business relations. I believe that if we take steps in this direction in Denmark, we will move towards a slope. Children are not and should not be a commodity. India is another country that until very recently allowed commercial surrogate motherhood, but a year ago, in March 2020, it banned commercial surrogate agreements, among others. to avoid poor Indian women being exploited by wealthy couples from abroad. As a society, we go a long way to help involuntarily childless people have a child, for example. through fertility treatment. Here, opportunities are constantly getting better and better. A previous government introduced user charges for fertility treatment, but it was abolished by a later government, which I think did the right and wise thing. In addition to fertility treatment and the help available in our health care, it is also possible to help vulnerable children through both national and international adoption and in this way, you can create a family and have a child together. I recognize and understand the desire to have children, but the price of helping childless people must not be too high. I believe that it can be if we extend access to surrogate agreements, as the motion for a resolution suggests here. Faced with an ethical dilemma, which, on the one hand, consists of remedying infertility and, on the other, avoiding the risk of children becoming a commodity and vulnerable women being exploited, I have no doubt. In that dilemma, I always stand on the side of children and on the side of vulnerable women. We should not have legislation in this area that opens up a real opportunity for uncontrollable surrogate motherhood for payment, with the risk that at home we risk making children a commodity and risk exploiting women in order to alleviate infertility. Therefore, the government does not believe that we in Denmark should extend access to surrogate agreements, even if the surrogate mother does not receive remuneration, and therefore the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408122340	There is a brief comment on Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408122343	I think that is simply the most absurd ministerial reply I have had for 16 years. The Minister is using as a main argument against the proposal something which is not part of the proposal but which may have happened in Ukraine and India, but which is not part of the Canadian model that we are proposing to make a parallel to in Denmark. That's absurd. That's fair enough. Well, we are in agreement on the Minister's opposition to something that is not in the proposal, so we agree on that, but could we not discuss the bill? It is fair to disagree with the proposal, but there must be some arguments. It is nevertheless impressive, in other words, praise for standing and admitting from the platform that one is arguing against something that is not part of the proposal. But I think that this is absurd and a little step-motherly treatment in relation to those people who actually want to be parents and who cannot do so with the rules that apply today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408122440	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408122440-2	I was just about to say, I'm quite proud if mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille must end on top and I can be allowed to be the one who delivers the most absurd thing he has heard for 16 years in the Folketing. I think that is quite an achievement, not to say that I have many colleagues in here who say absurd things from the platform, I do not see that happening. I think I explained in my speech quite specifically why we are concerned about this proposal. We are because it will really open up to commercial surrogate motherhood and the risk of it, because it will be so difficult to verify and enforce the ban if you make the opening that is being set up here. It is so in principle that children should not be a commodity and that we should protect the vulnerable women who can be exploited by it here. And when I highlight the experience of other countries, it is because we can see which issues are actually the ones where the full steps have been taken. I believe that with this proposal we are moving towards it and we do not want it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408122552	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408122554	We often have the term countries with which we usually compare ourselves. I understand that the government now believes that it is India and Ukraine, where I believe Canada is at a perhaps a little more comparable level with a country like Denmark. And that's how you can see the world so differently. But I think we should try to take other modern countries, progressive countries, in the world and look at how they do it, how they solve some of the problems that people cannot be allowed to become parents. Because the truth is that the problem that the Minister says we are not fenced in is that we will simply return to abroad because those children will be brought abroad with the rules that are now in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408122633	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408122634	I can also make something from studies in the United States about American surrogate mothers, studies that indicate that they also come here mainly from low-income families, where the economy is the primary motive for being a surrogate mother. So I think that when I highlight India, it is because a year ago, in fact, there has been a very active decision that you would not have commercial surrogate mothers because you are experiencing what I think there is a concrete quote from a representative of the Indian Government, a quote that sounded a little like Indian surrogate clinics having become baby factories for the rich, who are cheating poor women into entering into agreements, they do not fully understand and that is something we should listen to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408122724	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and so we thank the Minister who promised to drink off. Oh, yeah. It's a good thing we have a tough president, and I'll do it extra good!). Thank you. Then we can get to work on the rapporteur's round and start with Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408122757	Thank you, sir. President. Having a child is for a lot of people one of the most life-affirming and meaningful events in their lives. It is also for the close family and friends who come close to having a child. That is why the Social Democratic Party also has a great deal of understanding for those who cannot of course have a child, and we therefore also think it is very important that we discuss the challenges that are now very many Danes are experiencing. We do not believe that surrogate motherhood is the right solution, and there are several reasons for this. For example: Surrogate agreements contain a number of serious ethical dilemmas, as the Minister has also pointed out. This is about opening up access to surrogate agreements without which a basis can also be created to operate with both children and women as a kind of commodity. We cannot support that at all. And according to the Ethical Council, having surrogate motherhood also constitutes a violation of values that can change the whole view of pregnancy and parenthood. So there are a whole range of dilemmas in this motion for a resolution, as the Minister has also pointed out. We do not in any way believe that we should go out that way. We think it is essential that we have a general discussion about having the opportunity to have a family. How do we guarantee fertility at all, having a child, creating the future of the family you want? It is essential that we discuss it, but this is not the way to go and therefore we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408122958	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and after despriting we move on to Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408123022	Thank you for the floor, President. After all, it is a difficult ethical issue that we are going to discuss here today, namely surrogate motherhood, and preferably after the so-called Canadian model. It is certainly an exciting and ethically difficult subject that the rapporteur, Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille, is bringing up here today. Let me start by saying that the Left, in this way, believes it should be legal to be altruistic surrogate, that couples who are involuntarily childless serve a voluntary third party who can carry the couple's child, a so-called surrogate mother. The Left does not immediately see any problem in that. That is also why the Left supports the rule in this area, as it is today, which makes it legal to be and to use a surrogate mother. The rules don't need to be tightened. They should not, because being involuntarily childless is one of the most heartbreaking things that can happen to a couple who want a child. Imagine that you can't be allowed to experience the gift of being a mother or a father. Imagine that the dream of family life breaks before it even begins. And imagine that you have no opportunity to carry on your family. The involuntarily childless have the deepest sympathy and consideration of the Left. God knows that this is a difficult terrain that we are embarking on with the motion for a resolution today. I am well aware that the motion for a resolution stresses that the Canadian model prohibits payment for, and advertising, surrogate motherhood, as well as forbids the acceptance of payments to establish contact between involuntarily childless couples and surrogate mothers. With that said, the following rules for surrogate mothers, as they are today, are not allowed to advertise or to charge for being a surrogate, so it is often a close trust or even a family member, a sister or the like, to the involuntary childless couple who make themselves available as a surrogate. That is the effect that the Left likes, because then it is certain that the motive for making itself available as a surrogate is not based on any economic considerations, but on some kind of neighbourly love, as one might call it, which, as we know, more often falls into close relationships. This reduces the risk that a surrogate's pregnancy and the child who comes out of it will become a sort of commodity. For people are people and not goods, and in the Left we see people as an end in themselves and as having a value in themselves. I am aware that it might be argued that the Canadian model does not mean that you are paid to be a surrogate mother, but the model nevertheless lays down that the involuntary childless couple should be able to bear the cost of a surrogate mother's pregnancy, and that is fine, but it must of course be particularly careful that it does not develop into more than just the costs, so that it does not end up being a commodity. The Left believes that, overall, we need to provide the fertility area with a service and preferably soon. I think I've said that a number of times from the platform. In this context, the Left will have an open and open-minded approach to the subject. In this regard, I would like to point out that the Ethical Council has not spoken on surrogate mothers since 2008, and that has been a good time since then. That is why I hope that the Ethical Council will come to terms with the arguments for and against the Canadian model, so that we can clarify all the weights in the scales and see which way ethics are going. Morality and ethics are currently changing, and it is important for the Left that we have more clarity in this area, especially in view of recent political vigilance on the challenges of reduced fertility. There is no doubt that, as a family rapporteur, I would very much like to see us talking more about the fates and tragedies associated with being involuntarily childless. It's heartbreaking not being able to experience being a mother or a father. The Left's position on the proposal is therefore that a report should be submitted. In this way we can come all the way round the arguments for and against, just as we can identify the pitfalls, both the ethical and the human, so that we can determine how to best shape this policy in the future. Last but not least, it must be a report in which we strongly urge the Ethics Council to come up with a report on this important matter. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408123506	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408123510	Thank you for your speech, which was certainly more positive than what we heard from the government, and that is also a standard that can be measured. One of the things is... This whole thing about when the couple that becomes parents has custody. In Denmark, up to 21⁄2 years go by, while in the Canadian model you are parents from the beginning. This could be one of the elements one could look at without having big discussions about who can communicate, what to pay and all sorts of other things, because complications can occur if there is now something going on with the surrogate during that period, or what I know, so the certainty that you are actually parents from the start could be a good place to start.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408123557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408123558	I am in complete agreement with the questioner on this, and I also considered whether it should be included in the speech, but that is not really what was proposed in the motion for a resolution. But that is precisely what it is important to have with us, and I certainly believe that the Left and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll could agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408123609	Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll
ParlaMint-DK_20210408123613	The motion for a resolution has now been put to the vote, because it is one of the three fundamental differences between the Danish and Canadian models. So that's how it's set up. But it is clear that, after all, I am such a type who, if I cannot get the whole cake, in that case well will have a third of the cake, if that is what the Left will help to serve. So I think we should have a dialogue on what elements might be interesting if a majority were not to be found in this Chamber, and that is difficult, since the Social Democrats and the Left have already knocked it down.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408123643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408123644	I have to start by saying that we in the Left have not knocked it down at this stage -- it can also be seen that Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll is on board but we just really want us to have an open and open-minded discussion on this subject, and it's just so difficult, and we're moving into a minefield here. It is strong emotions that are at stake, and so we have enormous respect for that, and that is also why we cannot sit here and say 'yes' or 'no' to this, because it is so ethically difficult a dilemma we are facing. But let us have a good committee in which we can hopefully arrive at a report and come closer to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408123719	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408123751	Thank you very much. As our usual rapporteur, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, is at home watching me, I have taken the rapporteurship today and improved well, but I certainly also have a position, and that is something I have been involved in in the past, so of course I know the problem and our attitude towards surrogate mothers. Being pregnant is a great feeling, especially if it is uncomplicated and it is a good experience. But it can also be an unpleasant battle with fear of loss and a battle that mother and fetus are fighting together. It also means that it is almost impossible to go through a pregnancy without having feelings for the child who comes out of it. There is also the risk of complications, so it is not just a thing you can do without any risk at all. I understand the woman who unfortunately cannot have a child, and I sympathise with her, but I do not believe that we should change the rules, because that creates some completely different challenges. Having a child is not a human right, nor is a child a commodity or something to be recorded. When we talk about surrogate motherhood, there are some basic things at stake about human values. Both the woman's body and the child's body are at stake, and humans should not be a commodity. Nevertheless, we can see that the market is growing, especially where it is happening in a partly illegal market, and then there is also the risk of cheating. The argument for it seems to be that when there is a market, we must take care of it, and then we in Denmark must ensure that it happens under proper conditions. But that means that, as a society, we also assume responsibility for the view of human beings expressed by commercialisation. And because something is being done, even if it's illegal, it's not right to legalize it. Then we should also start to say that we also need a weapons law because there are some who have weapons, even if they are not allowed. And we must allow a higher speed on motorways because there are more people who do not comply with speed limits. Several aspects of surrogate motherhood are problematic ethically, and there will always be a lot at stake for all parties in these cases, and money is one of them. You can also suddenly stand with a woman who regrets that she has agreed to give up the child and what do you do? We've seen it in other countries. We've also had cases at home where they've been cheated. And whose child is that? Of course, the woman has carried the child, but the child's DNA is different, so there are also legal challenges. There are simply too many problems associated with surrogate motherhood, both for the child and for the woman, and it will also be difficult to make a model where money does not play a role, whether it is money under the table or whether it is to be able to go home while you are waiting. A general theme of the debate on surrogate motherhood is that surrogate mothers only agree to be included in the agreement on surrogate motherhood because they are in a vulnerable or vulnerable situation, which may apply to both commercial and altruistic agreements. In the latter case, the future surrogate mother may find it difficult to say away from a friend or from relatives. So this is a very sensitive issue. In Denmark it is balanced and then you can come up with a lot of things that should be different, but relaxing the scheme is not a way we want to go, and therefore we cannot vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408124158	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408124202	We could simply reject some of Mrs Liselott Blixt's comparisons, because they have weapons, speed and so on. could seem a little absurd in relation to the problem of infertility. I cannot help noticing that when 19 years ago the speed of the motorway was raised, the Danish People's Party issued a press release stating that people are still driving 130 km/h, so we must speed up. So be careful with the arguments, Mrs Liselott Blixt. I would like to ask what I also asked the rapporteur of the Left: what about the part about when you are parents, that is to say, that you have to go through a stepchild's adoption in Denmark, where these two and a half years go before you can actually become parents? Could it be an element we could look at independently if we do not want to take a look at the whole package?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408124245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408124246	As far as I understand, this is not part of this agreement or this proposal. We have said before that I also know that Karina Adsbøl has said that we need to ensure the child's best interests in relation to the legal profession that is when you come home with a child that you have received through a surrogate mother abroad. We always take the child's best interests as our starting point. We often think that this is about the adults who just want this child, and about how it comes to the world, who does it, how and how, and whether you pay money for it, it's suddenly become a commodity. When we have to consider something, we have to consider the child. And when a child comes to Denmark, no matter how we do, we also have to see if there are any things we can do better. So my answer to the question is brief and good: yes, let us see if there is anything we can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408124338	Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408124339	Then something good has already happened today, because that is what the Left said. If you stack the seats on top of each other, it will start to approach something at some point, and it has all been worth it. I just want to emphasise that we agree that children should not be a commodity end. We agree on that. What I fear is that today you have it as a very grey area, which in reality ends up doing what the opponents of formalizing it say they fear; then you actually have children as a commodity, that is, when there is no good framework around it. So I think that we should provide a good framework for this, so that we can help the families at the same time and ensure that the children are safe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408124418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408124419	The problem is that the more you legalise it, the more normalised it becomes and the more normalized it becomes, the more it will pull out the threads so that it becomes a commodity, rather than that it is people we think it is children who are associated with. And you're also attached to the woman who's been wearing one. I'm sorry that you start looking at people like some you can just do with what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408124448	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ina Strejer-Schmidt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408124503	In SF we acknowledge that we have a major problem in relation to infertility in Denmark, but we do not believe that surrogate motherhood is the solution. There are many ethical dilemmas associated with surrogate motherhood. There can be, among other things: situations arise in which during pregnancy the surrogate mother attaches herself to the child and where the surrogate mother regrets giving up the child. Denmark has also undertaken through the United Nations Children's Commission to take all appropriate measures to prevent children from becoming commercial objects. Altruistic surrogate motherhood is legal in Denmark, and here we would like to help the couples with a baby adoption more quickly than only after the 21⁄2 years as it is today. This will provide both security for the woman who carries the child and the parents who want custody of the child. So maybe sir can. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille nevertheless obtain some of his wishes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408124559	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408124602	I'm just gonna sign for that. For once again, the mandates can be stacked on top of each other, and at some point it may actually be that if nothing else could be one of the elements we could look at. It may also be something with, for example. the involvement of health authorities in relation to it. When that happens, you could imagine that you could also look at it, because the little one might be the smartest if there are complications, etc. So thank you for the openness, if nothing else, although there was no full support.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408124627	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408124628	Thank you. And that means that we are now moving on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Gundelach. Henrik Vinther, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408124643	Thank you. For so many of us, having a child, if not all life's purpose, is certainly a very important part of a good life. Unfortunately, not everyone gets the opportunity, and for others it is difficult for various reasons. Adoption has been used for decades, and since 1982, when the first Danish test tube child came into the world, we as a society have tried to help childless people to have children by medical help, and since 2007 it has naturally also applied to lesbian couples. Today 1 out of 20 children comes into the world after artificial insemination. Radical Left believes that access to trying to have a child should be equal. It is not the same as that it is a human right to have a child, but everyone should have the opportunity to try. That is why we welcome the proposal we are debating today and would like to thank Mr Seligman for his excellent report. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille. It is a proposal for a model in which, following a Canadian model, it will be possible for women voluntarily to help others to have a child by being a surrogate. This also means that the medical part can be done in Danish hospitals with professionally trained staff. There are, of course, a number of issues which have also been raised and which we need to address. We need to look at the part of the legislation that is about parenthood. We have already mentioned this here, and it follows as a natural part of allowing surrogate motherhood. It is also important that the scheme should not become an exploitation industry with the exploitation of vulnerable women, and among other things. Therefore, it is essential for us that payment to the surrogate mother should continue to be strictly prohibited. We must pay close attention to that part, and there is inspiration in the Canadian model. And then we should also look at an age limit for being a surrogate, and it would also be a requirement that women already have their own children. However, as I said, we are positive about the proposal from Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408124819	For that. There are no brief comments, and that is why, after despriting, we can proceed to Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408124832	Thank you. As we have heard in several of the rapporteurs' speeches, there are a great many debates in the debate on surrogate motherhood and many different elements that raise various ethical issues. I would like to begin by agreeing completely with all those who have said that not being able to have the child you want must be quite, quite awful. This is both because of involuntary infertility, and it is also true of homosexual couples who cannot have children unless they are helped in one way or another, and that is the longing that leads to many of the debates that we have. I will do my utmost to distinguish between altruistic and commercial surrogate motherhood. I think it is very important to distinguish, and I can also hear the authors of the motion for a resolution doing so. I would also like to make it clear at the outset that it is now legal to be a surrogate mother in Denmark, so surrogate motherhood as such is not illegal, and you can also pay for the actual costs associated with pregnancy. Where it becomes illegal and a so-called commercial surrogate motherhood, if you improve the standard of living of the bearer, then it is somehow replacing an income. And that is also the limit we in the Enhedslisten think it is insanely important that we set. It is basically about ensuring that we have some rules where one would like from the goodness of one's heart, if one wants to help one's friend, friend, sister, neighbor and wants to bear that child, then can do so, but we must never ever go where someone is directly or indirectly forced to bear children for others with all the implications that it may entail. Basically, it is a question of commercial surrogate motherhood being the purchase and sale of children. It is trafficking in human beings. There have been a number of people who have mentioned how awful it is. There are also others who have mentioned from the platform how wrong it can be if you release it. And I do not think that the proposer or anyone else thinks that we should have conditions like those in Ukraine or, as in India, with definite baby factories, where women, because they have the life conditions they have, are actually selling their bodies and the children they give birth afterwards, in order perhaps to feed another family, to rich couples in the Western world. And that is also why I think it is very important that we stick to some very basic principles and some strict rules in this area. Another reason why we need to think very carefully is for the sake of the children. In fact, whether the surrogate motherhood is commercial or not, it is true that people have an enormous need to know their source and perhaps also a greater need than we have actually been able to recognise in previous times. So it is also about children of sperm donors, of egg donors, children who are transnationally adopted or nationally adopted • very many want to know their source. So in this area too, we should remember to be very careful. I will not mention all the terrible things that have happened in the course of history, where children have just been deprived of the right to find and know their source, and what the consequences are, for the time running. There are a lot of different discussions in this debate. The Enhedslisten cannot support this proposal either. We do not believe that surrogate agreements should be legalised. Children are not movable, whether money is involved or not. So, making legally binding agreements on the transfer or adoption of a child, I don't think we should legalize. Nor do I believe in any way that we should allow the dissemination or advertising of or advertising of surrogate mothers, even altruistic surrogate mothers, because we are moving into a road where, directly or indirectly, we can at least be pressured to do so. The same applies to assisted reproduction, which means that you can get help with it. We are certainly sceptical about this. Then there is the discussion about the adoption of places for those who are born of a surrogate mother at home. We want to take part in this, but we do not want to and I must hurry to say what we do not want to change the rules on the adoption of children who have come into the world through commercial surrogate in other countries, unless we then tighten the legislation in other ways, so that we ensure that it is not de facto legal to use commercial surrogate mothers in other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408125402	Thank you. I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille? No, thank you. Then we thank the rapporteur, there are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408125423	Thank you, President. Well, thank you to Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille for bringing this motion for a resolution to the House today. This is an important debate in which, on the conservative side, we have the greatest sympathy and understanding for couples who want a child and cannot get pregnant themselves. Legalisation of surrogate motherhood is a difficult ethical dilemma in which there are many uncertainties; there are many questions that require answers, there is a need for more knowledge about it. On the conservative side, we are very curious about getting some more knowledge about the legalisation of surrogate motherhood, and so we would like to suggest that we hold a hearing on it; a hearing where we can uncover the ethical dilemmas, legal issues, biological conditions, economic dilemmas, etc. by legalisation of surrogate motherhood. On the basis of that knowledge from the hearing, we can then discuss the matter further. So for the moment we are voting against the resolution here, and then, as I said, we would like to call for a hearing on it in committee so that we can uncover these facts and gain more knowledge about it. And then we can have a discussion based on a greater knowledge and identification of the legalisation of surrogate motherhood.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408125603	Thank you to the rapporteur. No brief remarks. As I do not see any more party rapporteurs wishing to speak, it is therefore now the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408125634	I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs and the parties who took part, of course, to a particular extent to the rapporteur of the Radical Left, who said that they would support the proposal, but also to a number of other rapporteurs. Both the Left, the Danish People's Party and the SF's were talking about whether there should still be place child adoption or whether parenthood could be achieved more quickly. And I would also like to thank the Left, who thought that we should look at it a little more closely and that perhaps we could do something, and the Conservatives, who suggested that we might have some sort of consultation on it in order to become wiser and thus show openness and curiosity in looking at the rules. Thank you, too, of course, for the speech from the Enhedslisten, but I may not think that it had quite the same positive cracks as there were with the other parties. At least it was a very small crack and I am relatively nearsighted. The government and the Social Democratic Party were probably the most closed, but I forgive the Minister in the sense that I myself have tried to be a minister, and I know that the starting point for the systems is that you are against anything new that does not come from the government and that is also fair enough. It may well be that the openness, which is still among the parties of the Folketing, could also give the Minister greater appetite to take up the discussion and go into the more substantial. Because I think it is nice to hear that there is a general starting point across the board: we want to help the childless to be able to have a parenthood. That is, of course, what I hear all around, and that is what has been the starting point and the intention for me to make this proposal. Then there are some concerns as to whether there may be commercialisation in relation to parenthood and motherhood, and that is, of course, a fair objection. I may think that it is just as festive when Ukraine and India are used as comparisons, but let us go deeper into the Canadian discussion in order to be quite fair what to say in terms of language policy and what to do about it, because there may of course be some points. And I would also like to acknowledge to Mrs Pernille Skipper, the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, that there is also a difference in the level of compensation in relation to the Danish and Canadian models. I think it would be fair to do so in the Canadian way, but one can discuss that, and it may also be that there is an intermediate amendment I do not know. The point is that today there are some who cannot become parents with the rules that are, and we can help them by changing the rules. That is the main point; that is what I think is essential; that is what is intended. The next is whether it can create some other problems, and we must then deal with them. Whether we can do a bit of it now with the majority combinations that exist in the Danish Parliament, there must be some advantages in having a one-party government, because it is easier to make a majority out of it after all to be unsaid, but it may well be that we can get individual elements implemented outside the parties that are against; perhaps in relation to this, we have to wait 21⁄2 years to get custody. The second is that I also think it is necessary to get this into the discussion with the Council and there it may be that the Conservative proposal for a hearing is a good thing that there are some things that are going on one way or the other. If they are creating some grey area problems at the moment, which we do not actually solve, when we say that we have some fine rules and then look away from the creation of grey areas, then you could create some better conditions and some more security and something more orderly by making rules and formalising some things, then I think it would be a wise way to go. And that could perhaps be identified if you went the way of consultation. I understand that when you have to discuss and take some leaps in relation to some of these ethical discussions, it can often cause difficulties. The larger the party group and there it is easy to be a • the greater the difficulties it can create, because some will think that they may be open to that, while others will be completely dismissive and say: what now, etc. Fortunately, I have been involved long enough to know that, in relation to most ethical issues being dealt with in the Folketing, the Folketing is very sceptical at the beginning. Then it's a little skeptical when we get further, and even less sceptical when we get further. On most of these ethical questions, there is a clear movement that ends up with the question of how many years to go and how many times to make the proposals and how many times to discuss it thoroughly and secure all the reservations that may be before it gets through. I mean, I've been in the past when I was a non-attached person for the first time, making suggestions that homosexual couples should be able to adopt. At that time it was very controversial and I actually had the resolution adopted, but I was certainly not the first to have tabled that proposal either. And then there were many objections: Uha, and what about the child, and could it be done at all, and would it not be a terrible way to see children by allowing homosexuals to adopt them? Some may think so today, but it is certainly not something that anyone has proposed to change again. So it kind of came forward. But I think it is fair enough that we get all the objections. I hope, however, that we can make some progress in favour of parents and children.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408130214	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408130220	Thank you. And I am sorry if the proposer was too short-sighted to see where, after all, I gave myself a little bit along the way. Well, I'd like to sign for the discussion. I think it is quite important to do it in a factual way, and I think everyone has done so, so I am actually extremely pleased about that. The rapporteur himself says that it is good that we can look at changing the rules on when to adopt an infant. However, as I also tried to say in my speech, where I clearly had much more to heart than I had time to say, it is quite important to distinguish between a child born of a surrogate mother in Denmark, within the rules where we are as sure as we can be, that it is a complete voluntary nature; and to make it easier to donate more quickly or whether it should also apply to the more and more couples who unfortunately travel from Denmark to Ukraine and, to put it bluntly, buy a child. Well, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll, that we need to change the baby adoption rules in both cases? Or see Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille also a distinction here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408130334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408130346	I think it is a pity that the Danish rules send childless people out of the country to have children by means of foreign surrogate mothers. But that is what the Danish rules do today. That is why I believe that the rules should be changed, so that people choose to have Danish surrogate mothers and have them carried out under controlled conditions in Denmark. I think that's the main point. However, I believe that we must also be careful in relation to some of the fates that come with the current rules, i.e. that those rules become too square in relation to children with foreign surrogate mothers. For suddenly we can risk seeing children who have lived in Denmark and who may be 1-2 years old and who may suddenly become part of a custody case, because we think that uh, we should make sure to make some square rules that make them unable to have parenthood from the beginning. Then I think that you might suddenly find yourself in a situation where you have to answer some really unpleasant questions with some children who actually have both language and consciousness and all sorts of things, and who can suddenly be throwing ball between foreign surrogates and Danish parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408130442	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408130447	Now it is the case that when they come here from another country, they have often renounced the right in that country, at least in Ukraine. What is the problem is that according to the Danish rules, you cannot adopt an infant if it is a commercial surrogate. If you make it possible to adopt an infant after a commercial surrogate motherhood, that is, after buying the child, to put it very squarely, then it becomes indirectly legal to go abroad • India, Ukraine, the United States and pay off that someone else is carrying your child. Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille, that it should be legal to use commercial surrogate mothers as long as it takes place in other countries? Is that what's wanted?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408130527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408130531	The desire is not a commercial surrogate at all. To give an example, just to say what the ethical dilemmas are, there is probably also someone who could have stood up at the time, and had very high ethical standards that people paid to have their pregnancy terminated when abortion was still banned in Denmark. It is the case that it is people who are driven into something because they want to be parents, and it is the Danish rules and the majority in the Folketing that help drive them out there, where they come to, because we do not make any rules where they can use Danish models. And there I think we take responsibility for some unhappy fates, and so it is to be a legislator when there are difficult dilemmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408130613	Thank you, sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed. And then Mr. Forgot. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille also to spit off it just gives a little extra exercise in here in the Parliament Hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408130653	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408130710	Thank you for that, President. This bill proposes to extend the Igu scheme to include refugees and family members of refugees who have been in Denmark for 5-10 years. In the Social Democratic Party, we are very much in favour of the Igu scheme, because it works very well. They have proved that the Igu scheme succeeded in helping more refugees into the labour market. We are also very pleased that the Danish model, with the social partners, is helping to carry out a major task in the field of integration in connection with Igu. One of the biggest challenges that has arisen as a consequence of the large immigration from various Middle East and North African countries is that relatively few people from this part of the world compared to comparable groups have entered employment. The draft law therefore proposes to strengthen the professional and linguistic skills of the Igu scheme. The extent of training in the form of, inter alia: Amu and language courses will therefore be extended by 3 weeks, and there will therefore be 23 weeks of training in an Igu course. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that it is absolutely essential that people get to work, both for their own sake and for their general well-being, but also for the sake of the Danish economy and our social model. The whole basis of our welfare state is that healthy bodily adult citizens contribute what they can in the labour market and that as few as possible are temporary on public support. And that's why the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408130848	There are questions from Mrs Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408130854	Would the rapporteur not agree that this proposal will make it more difficult to return refugees to their countries of origin? And will the rapporteur not therefore admit that this is a hollowing of the so-called paradigm change, which was an active return policy, which the Social Democrats pride themselves on having taken over from the previous government and from the Danish People's Party, and for which they have promised to stand for, but which they are now failing, among other things. With this legislation, which allows refugees to be converted into immigrants, so that they can stay in Denmark, that is to say, the possibility of sending people home as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408130944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408130946	No, first of all, the Igu is not a social democratic invention, although I think it is a good idea. But it is not a socialist invention; it is a system established under the previous government jointly with the social partners. And I don't think you should see this as a contradiction to repatriation. This is a question of whether people should work while they have a legal residence in Denmark or whether they should be on public support while they have a legal residence in Denmark. And we'd rather people support themselves, and that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408131024	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408131025	Yes, but it's a talk for the sick aunt, because it's also a way to put off their opportunity to be repatriated because you can stay if you're in work. So it is not true that this does not extend the number of people who can stay in Denmark instead of going back to their home countries. So I do not buy it, and I think it is a little sad that, as the government claims, we are pursuing a very strict immigration policy and that there are clearly gaps around it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408131102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408131104	But what I just find a little funny about that criticism is that the government which Mrs Krarup's party itself supported introduced this scheme. After all, it is not the Social Democratic Party that introduced this scheme if you are at all opposed to the scheme. And I am not in fact opposed to the system; I think it is a good arrangement. Because I think that when you have someone who has a temporary residence permit in Denmark and you have the choice between whether to support yourself or whether to provide for the public, I would at any time prefer that you support yourself and then go home when you no longer need protection in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408131137	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408131159	Thank you for the floor. Since the introduction of the Igu scheme in July 2016 and until November 2020, a total of 2,596 agreements have been registered. It is 2,596 people who would perhaps have had a longer and more difficult way into the Danish labour market, or worse, had not been part of the working community at all, the largest community that exists in this country, and the key to having a successful stay during the period you are in Denmark, regardless of how long it may be. If you have to return to your country of origin, if there is peace there, then it is quite clear that you have to learn something that can be used actively while you are here, and you also have to be self-supporting, so that it is as small an expense as possible for Danish society. Indeed, we know that refugees coming to Denmark, no matter how long they are going to stay here, must enter the labour market as soon as possible, because the longer they are outside the labour market, the more difficult it becomes to enter. This applies both here and when they have to go back at some point if it gets there. The basic integration training is a very good tool for getting more people into work and making more refugees self-supportable and maintaining the qualities that would otherwise be put on standby if they were one day to rebuild the country which they have left and which may be in ruins. Then they are on an equal footing with everyone else and can contribute to society as long as they are here. The scheme has proved to be exceptionally successful. That is why it was extended to 2022 only in 2019 and we are pleased about that. When we introduced basic integration training, the target group was approx. 19,000 people. This was linked to the large influx of refugees and family members joining refugees. Now, as a result of the successful tightening up of the previous government in the whole area, the target group has been reduced to 8,500 people, as the influx is smaller, while employment among newcomers and family members for refugees has increased in recent years. However, the challenges remain great and therefore it makes good sense that we are now extending the scheme so that it applies to people who have been here for up to 10 years. With those words, I can say that the Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408131424	There are no questions, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur, who is already ready, is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408131442	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we are against the scheme. We have been doing so from the beginning, and we are still doing so, and we are also opposed to the extension of the system. We find it sad that there is a system whereby refugees are converted into immigrants, because refugees are given the opportunity to get an education so that they can stick to the Danish labour market and thereby postpone the possibility of being repatriated. It's wrong. It is against the so-called paradigm shift, i.e. an active return policy which we in the Danish People's Party have worked for and which the current government sometimes prides itself on having taken over, but where we can at least say in this area that it is not. We find that sad. We think it's wrong. It is a question of refugees being refugees and, as soon as possible, they must be sent home. If, at the same time, you have arrangements, as we unfortunately do, where you can postpone repatriation, if you are in work, then this Igu training will simply be a factory that transforms refugees into immigrants, which can stay here for a long time, and we simply cannot do that. For Denmark is not an immigrant country. We also find it grotesque that when you've gone through this training and then you don't get a job, you can actually be entitled to unemployment benefit at the graduation rate. It is an absurdity that we should not have in the country. We should treat refugees as refugees and have them returned as soon as possible. So the Danish People's Party says no to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408131629	We would like to thank the rapporteur, and then there is once again the despriting. The next rapporteur to be ready is Mrs Halime Oguz, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408131656	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the government for bringing forward this bill to extend and extend the basic integration training course. The SF supports the bill as the scheme has proved to be an effective path to sustainable employment among refugees and family members. We believe that it is absolutely right to expand the target group so that more people can benefit from the scheme, which has proved to strengthen the professional, linguistic and social competences of the target group, as well as knowledge of the Danish labour market. All this helps to strengthen integration, and we would, of course, like to support that. For the SF, it is important that the social partners take responsibility for integration, as we achieve good results in this way and have integration that works. The tripartite agreement is the Danish model at its best, and it has proved its worth very much in the context of the Igu scheme. Against this background, I can inform you that the SF supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408131802	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, but there is a small despriting cloth waiting. Then we welcome Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408131824	Thank you very much. The Igu scheme, the basic integration training, was established back in 2016 and has proved to be a very good arrangement and really effective when it comes to getting people with refugee backgrounds into employment. That is why we in the Radical Left are very happy about this bill which extends the target group so that more people can benefit from basic integration training. We would really like the target group to be expanded more than the draft law here proposes, so that people over 40 years of age and those who have been in Denmark for more than 5 years can all benefit from it. But in general, this is an example of how the Danish labour market works with agreements involving all parties, including the government. It is common sense to extend the Igu regime. Radical Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408131926	We thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408131940	It is good to extend from 5 to 10 years, and it is good to extend from 20 to 23 weeks. However, it is noteworthy that the number of Igu agreements is decreasing and decreasing, even if part of the explanation is that the number in the target group is decreasing. Having said that, there are also some shortcomings in the practical way in which the Igu works. First of all, there are shortcomings in the formulated progression in practice. It is good to extend the scheme to ten years, so there is an opportunity to make up for the sins of the past, where we have not done enough to ensure that the people involved have been able to obtain an upskilling. But I think it is really important that the public sector should be more involved with Igu agreements, particularly in the areas of health, social affairs and so on. In this context, it is important that the Igu-practicism, both in the public and in the private sector, is seen as an essential part of the qualification both socially and professionally. An Igu student is not supposed to go to work alone in the early hours of the morning, of which I have heard examples. In the best editions, an igu-practical could trigger a little merit at the start of a real vocational training course. That would be great. And yes, there is no doubt that what comes out of it in the field of Danish knowledge could be much better. Then we'll see if the extra three weeks can help here. The same could also apply to reading, writing, arithmetic and not least IT skills. In any case, it is important to pay attention to this in the evaluation of the scheme. But Enhedslisten supports this improvement in the Igu agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408132120	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408132140	Thank you, sir. President. We think this is a very good proposal. The Igu and the integration service have been a rare success in an otherwise rather difficult world when it comes to integration in Denmark. The integration benefit has contributed to the fact that much more refugees have entered the labour market, where they can contribute to Danish society and improve themselves before going back to their home country and help build it up. It was us, too, and when I say 'us', I mean overall the Blue Government that introduced the Igu, and we are pleased that the Social Democracy will now expand the good work. I heard the Danish People's Party be a little critical of this, and I just want to point out that the Igu does not change a comma that refugees have to return to their homeland as soon as there is peace. In this context, I would like to commend the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration for the ongoing efforts to bring Syrian refugees back to those parts of Syria where it is considered that there is enough peace. All other things being equal, it is better for a Syrian refugee to have worked for a certain number of years and have qualified as a "what do I know" carpenter or blacksmith so as to be able to go back and help rebuild his country than to have sat and done absolutely nothing and alone was a burden to Danish society. Of course, this does not alter our criticism of the Minister and the Social Democratic Party, which has at the same time increased the benefits for unemployed refugee families and made it easier for other groups of refugees to stay in Denmark if they have a job. But at least praise for this bill and for getting more people into work before they have to go back and rebuild their homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408132314	There is a question from Mrs Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408132317	That is not true when the rapporteur says that this does not change how many people are being sent home. It is clear that the Igu does not do it, but the fact that people get to work changes whether they are sent home because it has been agreed that if you are in work, you can have your return delayed. That is the problem: we will then have more of these cases here. I think it is a little grotesque that the Conservative People's Party cannot see that there is a problem here. Here, the desire for labour is then used by the business community to avoid applying the strict immigration policy which, of course, should be pursued.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408132358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408132400	But we see no contradiction between asylum restrictions on the one hand and, at the same time, to say that those who have come to Denmark must, of course, contribute during the period they are in Denmark, both for the sake of Danish society, but also for the sake of the individual, because it is healthy to go to work, and for one to be able to improve oneself before going back to, for example. Syria, to those parts where it is estimated that there is enough peace. Everything else equal, as I said before, it is better to go home with strengthened competences and have done something sensible during the period you have been in Denmark, rather than having done absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408132431	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408132433	It would all be right if it were the case that one was actually sent home at the moment that was possible. But it is the case that if you are in paid employment, you can have your return postponed. That is the problem. That is why this is a weakening of foreign policy, for which the Conservative People's Party should not vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408132454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408132456	But I said precisely in my rapporteur's speech that that part of the policy of social democracy which makes it easier to stay in Denmark, if you have work, we are vertically opposed. But it doesn't change the basics that while you are in Denmark, you have to work, you have to contribute, you have to improve, and then you have to go back to your home country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408132512	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408132526	Thank you, President. I shall start by saying that New Citizens cannot support the proposal. Basically, we believe that education should be indifferent, we should not accept refugees here in Denmark, and so education will also be superfluous. In addition, we are very, very concerned that this is a slippery slope, because we know that the government, with their parliamentary basis, does not want to send these people home actually, because otherwise it would not have passed legislation that allowed them to stay as long as they were at work. And it is sad to see that there are parties that put votes to improve a system that means that there will be more of them who will stay and remain in the country. Then it may be that Conservatives say this individual bill doesn't change anything. No, but the consequence of the law is that it will be easier for people to stay in the country, and we know from history that if they stay longer in the country, they will not return home. So new citizens absolutely cannot support this proposal in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408132629	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur, who is ready, is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408132647	Thank you for the floor. Like the Left and the Conservative People's Party, we do not believe that this bill weakens the principle of temporaryity that was behind the so-called paradigm change that came into force while we were in a common government. And when this principle of temporaryity is not weakened, we think it is an advantage to make oneself useful during the temporary period when one is in Denmark, and that is why we support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408132725	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we are through the rapporteur's line and we will move on to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408132749	Thank you, and thank you to the rapporteurs for receiving the bill, and of course I am pleased that there seems to be very broad support for the draft law, and thus also for extending the basic integration training, which will allow more people to be employed in an Igu programme. This arrangement was created at the time on the basis of a joint proposal from the Danish Employers' Association and the then LO, which the social partners and the then government chose to accede to with the tripartite agreement on better integration into the labour market back in 2016. This created what I have called a small gem in Danish integration policy in another context. I have called it that because it has given and because it continues to allow more refugees to get to work honestly. For, despite its name, it is a completely regular job on a student's salary. One gets out at a workplace, meets Danes, learns more Danish, gets a better knowledge of the country's norms and values, and in this way the integration basic education constitutes a stepping stone both to the Danish labour market and to be able to function in Danish society. The scheme guarantees employees a wage which is agreed in agreements, but which is similar to that of pupils and apprentices, and there are also genuine rights to training, for example. through the amu system, and all that is part of the process. The legislative proposal that we are considering first today translates into those parts of the tripartite agreement of December 2020, that is, just before Christmas, which require legislative changes. The proposal means that in future the scheme will cover refugees and family members of refugees who have been in Denmark for up to 10 years. Until now, the scheme has covered only those who have been in the country for up to five years. It is expected that it will increase the target group as per the previous year. 31 December 2019 amounted to around 8,500 people, to a total of 12,100 people. In addition, the level of education in an Igu programme will increase by 3 weeks to a total of 23 weeks, i.e. from the existing 20 weeks. I am glad that we, together with the trade union movement and the employers' associations before Christmas, had this tripartite agreement made despite a pandemic and busy with much else. I am pleased that we succeeded in getting the agreement and strengthening the scheme, and I am also glad, as I said, that there is broad support for the bill today, which is, after all, implementing this tripartite agreement, which in turn is the expiry of a financial agreement concluded by the government with the Enhedslisten, SF, Radicals and the Alternative over a year ago. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133031	There are a few questions, and the first is from Mr. Marcus Knuth, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133036	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. We are very pleased with the draft law, as it stands here separately, but as I also said from the platform, I am concerned about the other legislation introduced by the Social Democratic Party, which makes it easier to stay in Denmark if you have a job as a refugee. Can the Minister guarantee that the other legislation, if it is the case that you are moving from an Igu and into the labour market, does not in fact mean that there are some that can be that the Minister would otherwise have returned?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133105	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133109	People who come here as refugees get a temporary residence permit. When it is to be renewed, it is sought to be renewed and then the authorities re-evaluate the need for protection. If they consider that you do not need protection, it will automatically be appealed to the Refugee Board, and if they confirm that decision, the residence permit will not be extended and so you do not have a residence permit. But then you have the opportunity to seek a new one. For example, you have... the possibility of applying for the payment scheme or the Trusted List or a residence permit or an au-pair residence permit. There are many different residence permits. One of the many residence permits is that if you have been in two years of continuous employment in the same company under normal pay and employment conditions, you can obtain a new residence permit under that scheme as long as you are in that employment or employment relationship. So far, no refugees have availed themselves of this system. I do not know whether any refugees have made use of the money system or the positive list, but we can check that out. These are, after all, far larger schemes than this new business scheme. But it takes you to live up to the conditions. But some refugees do that too, fortunately, who have a normal job.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133210	Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133217	Thank you. I would just like to ask whether the Minister noticed the small point about the fact that public opinion may not be too good at making Igu agreements and whether that is something the Minister will look at in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133235	I noticed the small point, because when it comes to this scheme, the private labour market is actually better at setting up these training places than the public labour market has been, and of course I have also been concerned that we, as a state, regions and municipalities, are taking advantage of basic integration training, and I think that there is a greater potential there in particular. I would say that when you look into the statistics, you can see that things have improved significantly. There are significantly more women in the professions who will typically be in the public sector who have taken advantage of the Igu Agreement, but it took a while to get the race going, where the private labour market went quite quickly to get the scheme going.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133311	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133313	Is this a statistic that we can share in? Because then I'd love to see them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133325	It is certainly a statistic that the Folketing can share. The rapporteur is also welcome to come straight to me and get a document, but the best thing is if I pass it on to the committee so that the whole parliament gets it. And I would therefore urge everyone, if they take part in the negotiations and in other contexts, to remember to ask the public authorities whether they remember that this system exists, because it is good, and I think it is a little embarrassing for us as politicians that it is actually the public sector that has lagged behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133350	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133354	Thank you. The purpose of the training is, as I understand the Minister, that people should subsequently enter permanent permanent employment. If refugees get into permanent employment and are for two years, I can hear from the Minister that, even if you are granted temporary residence permits, you can apply to be here for as long as you are in employment. Will that not also mean, in the words of the Minister, that there will be more who will be able to stay in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133426	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133429	It is clear that if refugees, who are no longer refugees because there is no longer any need for protection, have their residence permit withdrawn, they will have the opportunity to seek a new basis for residence. As I said before, it may be a student residence permit, so you just have to pay your own education, or it may be on the amount scheme, and then you have to earn more than about DKK 430,000. a year. There is also something called the positive list and it comes into the picture if you have an education that we are looking for, and it can be an engineer, nurse, doctor or IT supporter. It may also be because you have a permanent link with the labour market, but it requires you to have been in two years' employment. It is clear that the more refugees who get into work and provide for themselves it is statistics that will also have the opportunity to live up to these occupational schemes, it gives itself, but then their residence basis is no longer linked to the fact that they are refugees, so it is linked to their being part of the Danish labour market. So I do not think we should cry about the fact that it seems fortunately that the employment figures for refugees and family reunification are going in the right direction. Especially for women, we have seen positive developments. I admit that the glass is still half empty, but it is worth welcoming positive developments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133532	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133536	No, that's right. You shouldn't worry about that if you're just thinking about labor. But if, like at least we in New Citizens, you also think about what direction Denmark as a whole is going in, what development we are making with our society, what replacement of the population is going on in Denmark, then it is deeply worrying that some measures are being taken here that improve the possibility that you can stay in Denmark once you have arrived here as a refugee. Although Conservatives would argue that this does not happen, I am glad that the Minister emphasizes that this is precisely what is happening with this legislation, i.e. that it improves the possibilities for refugees from non-western countries to remain in Denmark and obtain authorisation under other conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133615	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133619	I'm going to put it this way that I think it's too simple when you talk about how foreigners do in Denmark, just slap it all together in a big box. It is true that people who come here as refugees, on all parameters that I can put on my head, are doing worse than the average of the population: crime, unemployment, social control, a lot of things. However, people who come here on business schemes, people who are here because they meet the requirements of our business schemes, typically do better than all other foreigners, also on some parameters better than Danes. They are not on cash aid, they are committing less crime, they are doing well in Danish society. It's also part of the story.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133659	Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133702	I just think it is extremely sad to hear the minister stand and explain this because if you no longer have the opportunity to stay in Denmark as a refugee, you can just look for something else and that it is actually just okay and that Denmark should just be happy about it, because then more people will get to work. What kind of creepy thing is that? Denmark is not an immigrant country, surely we should not have labour from all ends of the world or have turned refugees into immigrants who can stay here forever. I really think that is a slippery slope, especially when you try to pretend that you are pursuing a strict immigration policy. So my question to the Minister is this: if you want to pursue a strict immigration policy, should you not say that when your residence base as a refugee lapses, you cannot apply for new forms of residence basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133755	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133759	I think that would be wrong. Now 2020 was a special year because of the covid-19, but if you go back just a year, namely to 2019, we print far, far more residence permits on business schemes than we do for refugees. We should be pleased about this, because refugees are an expense, and that is not the most humanistic way of pursuing refugee policy either, because that would be closer to conflict. But business regulations, people who come here on business regulations, thus strengthen Danish economy, strengthen Danish society, and this does not give statisticalally the same integration challenges as immigration through asylum policy. I really do not think we should mourn that people meet the requirements of our business systems and come here, for example. the amount scheme. I really don't think so. And we should not make that a foreign policy problem. On the contrary, it is part of the immigration policy which I hope the Folketing can stand together to maintain. It is more than 10,000 residence permits that we give in a normal year on business schemes, and it is people who come straight into the Danish economy, strengthen our society and, statistically speaking, do not pose a problem of integration in Denmark. You will always be able to find a single person, but statistically speaking it is people who are doing very well in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133907	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133911	So as long as Denmark is settled under a good economy, the Minister would like to see Denmark settled. I think that's creepy. What you are doing with this is creating a mechanism to transform refugees from being refugees into immigrants and could stay here for maybe forever. That is wrong, and that is what we in the Danish People's Party have worked with arms and legs to change. We have wanted to make an active return policy so that refugees come home as soon as possible, and it is working against the current government with this scheme, and I find that sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133944	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408133947	I think it's all wrong. A Syrian citizen is in Denmark, has his or her residence permit withdrawn because he or she no longer needs protection, and if, as we say, the person who is a nurse applies for a residence permit on the positive list and meets the requirements she has a job as a nurse, she meets the requirements because the nursing position is on the positive list because we lack nurses, she must then have a residence permit attached to that post. That makes sense. It makes no sense at all to say that we have a positive list for all the citizens of the world except Syrians.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134019	There are no further brief comments, and we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134036	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134052	Thank you, President. This bill proposes to equip the return journey effort with a new return journey law. In the Social Democratic Party we believe it is absolutely essential that foreigners who do not have the right to stay in Denmark go home. As it is today, we spend too much money on rejected asylum seekers and other foreigners without legal residence in Denmark. It costs, for example. 300,000 kroner. to have a refused asylum applicant accommodated at an exit centre in Denmark per year. That is why it is good that with this bill we now have a series of sharpenings for rejected asylum seekers and deported criminals who do not want to go home. The draft law proposes, among other things: to introduce a number of initiatives such as: to allow the authorities to obtain data from foreign mobile phones to identify them and to clarify the country to which they are to be sent. It is also proposed to be able to dispose of aliens' belongings and empty their rooms more quickly if they disappear from their exit centre for over 3 days without having a legitimate reason for doing so. Furthermore, it is proposed that foreigners who do not participate in their return journey should be deprived of the right to activation and education. In addition, it is proposed that asylum seekers who have been refused asylum in the first effort should be offered a cash bonus of DKK 20,000. in one-off contributions to waive their appeal in the Refugee Board and to return home instead. Finally, it is proposed that foreigners should sign a return contract to help them return home without legal residence. If they do not comply with this contract, they will be faced with various consequences, such as losing the opportunity to receive full return support and having an entry ban in the Schengen countries. All in all, this is a sensible bill which strengthens efforts to send foreigners without legal residence in Denmark, and the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134246	There's a question from Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134250	Thank you. This is a very fine legislative proposal, which we also support. However, does the rapporteur not see that it sounds a little hollow when, at the same time, you can be told at the Kærshovedgård exit centre that there is a hole in the fence so that those you want to return can simply walk in and out and that the computer system does not work, so that reporting obligations and residence obligations are not respected? I mean, it's okay to come up with some good legislative proposals, but why doesn't the government do more to get those who are actually in an exit position sent home?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134322	But the government also makes me aware of what it can do for that. If situations occur, e.g. That there's a hole in a fence, you have to patch that hole in the fence. There can't be two opinions about that. In relation to the computer system registration, I remember reading committee responses, and there was even a consultation on this a few months ago, when you took action immediately and then made a manual registration until this system worked again. And, of course, things have to be straightened out. Of course, there has to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134348	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134351	We could, among other things. hearing from a resident in the local area that he had bought a German Shepherd, and he had made security measures for, I think one and a half 150,000 kroner, because there were so many problems with the residents of Kærshovedgård. So can the rapporteur at least reply to something as simple as whether the hole in the fence has been patched?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134412	I have to admit, no, I can't answer if a given hole has been patched. I didn't know that there was a hole in a fence, like Mr. Knox. Marcus Knuth is familiar with. But that doesn't change the fact that, apart from these somewhat teasing elements, the matter is perhaps serious enough, because of course there should be no insecurity-building elements around any exit centres or asylum centres in Denmark, by the way; that is clear, of course, there should not be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134433	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134436	I mean, it's really good to have a travel law. This is something we have needed for a long time, and the Danish People's Party has always wanted to focus on returning refugees as quickly as possible and as effectively as possible. That is why I am assuming that this travel law will also be accompanied by an opportunity for Syrian refugees to be forced to return to the areas of Syria to which it is possible to return.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134509	It will not be adopted with a paragraph on this, and Mrs Krarup probably knew that very well. But this is due to the fact that we are not going alone here in relation to the rest of our allies in Europe and the United States. It would be if we started to force Syria to cooperate with Assad, because it would be interpreted by Assad as if we recognized him, so that he would interpret it both internally in Syria and externally to other countries as if he were the legitimate victor in the Syrian Civil War, and that is why we should not allow the Syrian people to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134612	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134614	I do not think the rapporteur can talk himself out of it. You try to have a rhetoric like the Danish People's Party and say that the government is pursuing a strict immigration policy, but in reality you are acting in some areas as if you were Radical Left. I think it's a little hollow. Get something done to Kærshovedgård and Lindholm, and get people sent to Syria, whether it is Assad or another bandit who is in power. It is a question of defending Denmark. It does not matter who is in power in Syria. It is a question of the government having a responsibility to pursue a strict foreign policy in order to defend Denmark as Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134707	The Radical Left is better able to answer it itself, but immediately I would think that the Radical Left would be asking itself not to be compared with us in these matters, because the Radical Left actually believes the opposite of us in a number of questions, for example. in relation to Syria. But what we do agree on, after all, is that it is not our job here from the Parliamentary Chamber in Denmark to proclaim a victor in the Syrian Civil War, and it is my impression that there is broad support for this not being done here in the Parliamentary Chamber, and I think that is of course a positive thing. However, the important thing is that Syrians who are going home are sitting in an exit centre so that they do not gain further association with Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134741	Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134745	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. Many of the things contained in this Return Travel Act are well known, including what has to do with, for example, reporting obligations. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur does not think it would be a little smarter, for example, to set the reporting obligation in such a way as to be able to do so at the local police station or something, rather than being very rigid in determining which places it should be, so that we could create a greater flexibility that would allow people to adapt smarter and more flexibly than having to be in a particular place, people have to lay down their reporting obligations, so that they have a less intrusive measure, but achieve the same objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134835	But I do not think we should do anything to make it easier for people to stay in Denmark when they are supposed to go home. So no, I don't see any reason to change anything here. I just think that we should have organized this in a way so that people who do not have a legal stay in Denmark are sent home.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134849	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134852	But having a reporting obligation is to ensure that there is a presence of people. The presence of people can of course be assured by the fact that the local police station should be joined instead. Then it may be that you can instead take care of a job somewhere else, so you can put some tax dollars in Denmark. It would be sensible to have some more who contributed to the community. But the fact that you have such a rigid way of adapting to a reporting obligation so centrally rather than locally, it lacks common sense, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134923	No. And if you do not have a legal residence in Denmark, you should not do a job either. Then you have to go home to the country you come from. That is the whole purpose of this legislation too. Therefore, we are not supposed to do anything to make it so comfortable for people to stay in Denmark. People are supposed to go home. That's the whole point of this. We are talking about people who do not have a legal basis for residence. These are not people we want to be here and have a good reason to be here. These are people, for example. comes from an area where there has once been war and where there is no war anymore, but which then finds it attractive to stay in Denmark instead of going back where they come from. That's just not how it works.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408134956	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408135002	Thank you. I'm afraid I'm a little late for sir. Rasmus Stoklund's rapporteur's speech, so it may be that the rapporteur has already said something about this, but I am still asking just in case. There are, of course, some of the consultation answers that are quite critical of this bill, among others. against the part about the fact that people are now going to pay for the fact that people can complain about their cases. Both Enhedslisten and I personally find it quite worrying, that is to say that people are now buying their way out of rights. This is something that we at least fear will be a slippery path in relation to the rest of the government's foreign policy. So I guess I'm just gonna have to hear sir. Rasmus Stoklund, if it is not at all a concern in the Social Democratic Party that when you start paying off that people can complain, then in fact some wrong decisions will end up in the Refugee Board.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408135051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408135054	No, it's not a concern that I've come across or that I'm carrying myself, I have to say. I could imagine that it might be the case that some of those who today get a ruling from the Foreigners' Board that they no longer have a residence in Denmark, because you can sort of live where they come from, just like that per year. This is the way things are being done and then the matter goes on in the Refugee Board. If you were just allowed to chew on it and look at the possibilities and had a conversation with this new travel agency, which is being set up, and were told what opportunities there are for getting some help to come back and re-establish yourself and get on a reintegration program and get started a business, get some qualification, or what might be relevant where you come from, then it might well be that you thought: OK, maybe it was actually very nice to get back to where I come from, where I speak the language, where I share the values, where the culture is, where I want, and where the sun shines. So no, it's not something I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408135152	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408135155	However, the reverse may just as well be true, that is to say, decisions have been taken in the Refugee Board, and not just complaints have been made to the press. Automatically, if that's how I'm supposed to understand it, sir. Rasmus Stoklund said. You complain because you think there is something to complain about, and what we are worried about is precisely that it is being removed now. Then I'd like to ask you something else. What if you can't go back? Well, sir. Rasmus Stoklund himself says that we should not make repatriation agreements with the Assad regime, and I fully agree with that, but it is not the only country that it is difficult to send people back to. There are other countries with which we have no repatriation agreements. Is it really sensible for us to allow people to rot in exit centres because the Social Democrats want to appear as tough bananas in foreign policy vis-à-vis Mrs Marie Krarup?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408135246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408135255	This is sometimes a schizophrenic position, because on the one hand you are told that you are a tough banana, while on the other hand you are told that you represent the Radical Left when it is others in the Chamber who interpret the text. But there is, of course, a very big difference between the fact that we are not sending people out forcibly and the fact that you cannot go to places. As far as Syria is concerned, 140,000 Syrians have returned to Syria from the vicinity over the last few years. 130 Syrians returned from Denmark to Syria with the reintegration programme last year. In other words, you can go back to parts of Syria. There is thus stability in parts of Syria around Damascus. That is why the one-sided picture that is being drawn is not right.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408135324	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Mads Birded, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408135347	Thank you for the floor. The return journey area has long been one of the biggest challenges in Danish foreign policy. It costs an average of approx. 300,000 kroner. to have a refused asylum applicant at an exit centre in Denmark for one year. It is money that we could instead spend on welfare for Danish citizens, but we cannot do so when we spend it here. That is why it is important that we strengthen efforts to get foreigners to go home. In recent years, we have pursued the approach that foreigners without legal residence are placed in an exit centre where repatriation depends on the alien's own initiative, when that is not possible by the forced returnee. We fully understand that rejected asylum seekers are in a difficult situation and that they need time to clarify after a final refusal of their residence permit. Nevertheless, it is our view that if you want to apply for asylum in Denmark, it is for a temporary period. As soon as it is possible to return to your homeland, you have to return and help build up your homeland. This has been one of the important steps in the paradigm shift that we introduced when we were in government. And that is why it is important that we create a framework for rejected asylum seekers, which strengthens the voluntary return journey. At the same time, there must be a strong and consistent response if foreigners do not respect the final decision of the authorities, which is an increasing problem. The aim of the government's return policy is to create tools for the authorities to change the way in which the authorities work with foreigners to be repatriated. The new return policy creates a more proactive process in which the authorities come closer to the foreigners, which will thus meet motivating efforts and concrete tools to return to their home country. This is important because foreigners also find their own motivation in helping to build up their homeland. With these words, I can say that the Left can support the bill. And we look forward to the positive consequences of the bill and to making further regulations in this area to ensure that we strengthen our efforts towards foreigners without legal residence in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408135602	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408135622	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we welcome the bill here. We think it is positive that all legislation in this area is brought together in one law, and it is positive that the Home Travel Authority has been set up in 2019. That's good. There are also good new initiatives in the law. Working with a return contract makes real sense, focusing on repatriation support or return support is also sensible, and adjusting the appeal option so as to allow people to think about their complaint and even to use the reflection period to go home with extra support is very sensible. This is all something that we in the Danish People's Party would have done if we had had the ministerial post. It's just 30 years late, but better late than never; that's the way it is. This legislation doesn't solve all the problems. Things are still gone that we think it is sad that nothing is being done about. It is good to talk about returning home, and it is good to focus on being Minister for Home Travel rather than being Minister for Integration. We fully understand that. However, it is so unfortunately very often in the press to be able to read about all the crime that emanates from the exit centres. I am talking here in particular about Kærshovedgård, which has recently been a series of articles on where we can hear about quite a lot of criminal acts in that area. It's sad that you don't get anything done about it. It is also sad that the Lindholm plans have not been replaced. The Danish People's Party has a constructive proposal to send people to Greenland instead, and it will soon come up here in the Assembly Hall. Because then we will at least avoid that crime in the Kærshovedgård area. But there are other things you could do about. Perhaps it could be made more attractive for municipalities to make more active efforts to have refugees repatriated. Perhaps you could increase the contribution the municipalities receive from the state every time they have a refugee sent home. As I said in my question to the Socialist rapporteur, we could also really take repatriation policy so seriously that we actually began to return to Syria now. It is Syrian refugees in particular that have been received in recent years, and there are safe areas in Syria, in the Damascus area, but you will not, because you do not want to talk to Bashar al-Assad, and it just makes this return policy sound hollow; then perhaps there is not much in it. It is just as with the law we were talking about just now, with basic integration training, which we would also like to extend, but which simply allows more refugees to stay here, but on a different basis. So all in all, we're happy that you're focused on return and return. That is very sensible, and that is what is needed, because Denmark should not be an immigrant country, and Denmark should not be subjected to a population change. But you just have to put it into practice instead of just talking about it, and that's what we're a little worried about. Of course we will support the law, but we would also very much like to be sure that something will actually come out of it, and that is why we will ask the Minister, and I hope he will be able to reply to that in his speech, if we can get monthly statistics on the work of the Home Travel Agency, so that we can see exactly what is happening in this area. We could, of course, have it sent to the committee so that we could follow very closely what is actually happening. But we support the law and then we hope it is not just rhetoric. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408140048	We thank the rapporteur. And there's just a little despriting. The next rapporteur, who is already clear, is that Mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408140116	Thank you. Before I talk about the content of this project, I have to address the context of today's debate. Today we are discussing something that I think you can calmly call pile legislation with a nice word. It is kind of everything good from the sea that has any relation to the return journey area. I understand that legislation is being put forward in this way if you want to save time and the content is uncontroversial; we do so all the time in the field of taxation, where I am also the rapporteur. But here we are talking about a rather comprehensive reform of our travel legislation, which is why I might as well say that the SF is recommending that this bill be split up into its individual parts. Because, as with most major reforms, there are parts of this bill that seem reasonable immediately, and then there are parts that I personally believe should be sent back to the workshop. Overall, I believe that the intention of the proposal and of this new legislation is sympathetic enough. In other words, when you do not have the right to be in Denmark, it is reasonable enough to expect that you will also participate in your programme. Therefore, as part of the legislation, it is not too much to ask for people to be returned, for example. can communicate digitally. However, it also seems reasonable to say that there is complete clarity about the return position, and that is why some kind of agreement between the authorities and private individuals on how this should be done is also a good idea. SF can also find some sense in the entry ban, so that the authorities have some form of sanction in cases where a person who should go home refuses to cooperate openly. In relation to the part of the proposal on the disposal of property, SF agrees with the government that it is important that foreigners, who should in principle travel to the home country, do not disappear from their homes. However, we expect to table an amendment to the proposal here that families with children should be exempted from the rule, because children need a stable everyday life and they should not be penalised for the actions of their parents. If our proposal goes through, we can probably support that part we have to look at. Then there is the question of data from mobile phones, and we find that quite problematic as a starting point. In other words, it is a violent interference in private life, which we do not at first sight believe is in line with the purpose. There is also the possibility of depriving people of the right to activation and the right to education. In SF, we believe that it is important that foreigners are integrated while they are in Denmark, both because it improves their lives while they are here, but also because it means that they return home strengthened when they have to, and therefore we are not particularly excited about that part of the proposal. Then there is the proposal for a cash sum to drop an appeal, which has also been debated in the past. And the SF supports the return service, also called the repatriation grant, because it specifically supports the ability of foreigners to travel reinforced home to their home countries, but to support a proposal to pay foreigners to renounce their legally guaranteed rights we cannot help. It is important for legal certainty that asylum seekers who believe they have the right to asylum should have their case tried by the Refugee Board, and they should not be paid for not doing so. With all that said, we are simply not going to be able to vote in favour of this proposal as long as the reasonably reasonable elements are piled together with some tightenings that we see as being far too far-reaching. I therefore hope that the government will also provide room for nuances and for those of us who can see ourselves in parts of the proposal but who cannot see ourselves in the whole package. That's what I had. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408140455	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Kristian Hegaard, Radical. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408140510	Thank you for the floor. And as a service provider I can say that now you can ask radicals questions if you want to do so in relation to what was mentioned at the beginning. But what we are talking about here is a new main law on the situation in which a foreigner is given a decision that there is no longer a basis for residence for the foreigner concerned in Denmark and that, therefore, there must be an exit to a country of origin or former Member State of residence. If you get a decision that results in you no longer having a stay, then of course it has the consequence that you cannot stay in Denmark. Of course, this must be complied with and, ultimately, after all other intrusive measures have been applied, this can of course also mean the use of powers. I think we are all behind this basic intention and agree with it. What is just important is that it should be done in a way that reflects basic legal certainty. In relation to the proposed bill here, much of the material is known from the current alien law, which is then simply moved into a new travel law. And there are also a number of new initiatives in it. There are things we support, but there are also things we do not support. Let me take a look at some of what we find challenging and problematic in terms of legal certainty. One was what I mentioned earlier. The way in which reporting is done today, etc. together, simply lacks common sense, that is, people have to go somewhere and state their reporting obligations. It could be arranged much more sensibly, namely that it could be done at a local police station, so that we might be able to take care of an education or work while at the same time ensuring the presence of the person. That would be common sense. New rules have also been laid down for a so-called return contract. Normally, when you have a contract, that is something that is being negotiated back and forth, but as several people have said in connection with the consultation answers to this bill, these return contracts are something one-sidedly fixed. Every time you talk about motivational measures in relation to return, it is primarily whip etc. that is used. The third issue we find problematic is that if you do not use your right of appeal, you will get a reward; a reward for not applying the general principle of law you have in appealing against an administrative decision. It just doesn't make sense. We should not make money by losing our own legal rights, especially when we see that when a case goes to the Refugee Board, a large proportion of the cases are being reversed. And when you are in a desperate situation with a decision that has gone against you in the first place, and you are guided not to appeal to it, it is unnecessary to force you not to use the ordinary legal options that you have. Then there are also some considerations in relation to digital communication, which immediately sounds quite reasonable and sympathetic to move on to. But there has been a whole series of reflections in the hearings on how to ensure that the people who come here actually know that you have to go to e-Boks, that it is correctly worded and so on, so that you know that it has a losing effect if you do not go in there. Such things must first be ensured before doing so, so as to ensure the necessary legal certainty. But, of course, if you do not have a new residence basis, then it has a legal order, and that is the intention that is always in authority decisions. But it must also be based on the necessary legal certainty. In view of these problems, the Radical Left is critical of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408140950	We thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408141013	Thank you. It is very rare that I have something to praise the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and today will probably not be the day when the great roses will be distributed. However, I would like to start by saying that I think the Minister has done one thing right with this bill, namely that you make your own law and do not put new things into the huge patchwork of an alien law that we have in Denmark. I would also go so far as to say that, of course, we agree that if you do not have a residence in Denmark, you have to travel. Then I just think we have a lot of disagreements about what it takes to be allowed to stay in Denmark, but I think that discussion is also known, and so is the disagreement. Nor is it a secret that the Enhedslisten does not support the government's policy of making the lives of refugees or other people who have lost their residence permit, just as we also have many, many criticisms of this huge bill, as Mr. Carl Valentin also called a pile of legislation. I can only agree with that, and that is also why I am glad that it has not come into another piece of legislation called the Aliens Act. Having said that, however, one cannot help thinking that the government has thought that this travel law is perfectly suited to the many people from Syria who have now been granted a residence permit, because the government as the only government in the world considers that Syria is a safe area to travel to. In fact, Syria has become so safe that these people should just be happy that they are being sent back into a civil war. You must also understand that the bill does not appeal to the decision to broadcast even though it may have been made on the wrong basis. Because if they choose to accept a decision that might be reversed in another instance, then they get a cash bonus, and then it is at an angle, Mr. Mattias Tesfaye. They say: Here you have 20,000 kr., you can have fun on the plane before you get out, where you risk being followed, shot or bombed on the street. As the bill shows, about one fifth of all foreigners in the exit position have been in this exit position for more than five years. In the government you read that it's evil will on the part of these people, but I actually believe that there's a reason why they don't travel. In fact, I believe that it is true when they say that they fear for their lives if they are sent back. And here's $20,000. So not the great motivation to go back to a place from which you have fled and where you risk your life if you go back. The most critical thing about the government's contribution bonus, or whatever we're going to call this cash, is that it's devastating to our community of law. After all, there are many cases that are being reversed in the Refugee Board, in other words cases in which a wrong decision has been taken in the first instance. Those people are now being cut off from getting the right decision. If you want the Home Travel Authority to work actively to ensure that cases are not tried in another instance, then we can be absolutely sure that we will have a system in which the amount of wrong decisions will only increase. It cannot be right that we, as the rule of law, want people to refrain from receiving a proper decision against a cash sum. We should not have an authority to actively work to ensure that vulnerable persons do not get the correct decision. It is simply not worthy of the rule of law. That the government, with this bill, also believes that there can be real prospect of sending out only because negotiations have been started with diplomatic assurances that a person will not be subjected to torture or the death penalty, is, of course, like taking a sack over his head in full sunshine and claiming it is dark. It's not gonna last a meter. Diplomatic assurances from undemocratic states are certainly not something that makes it possible for us to be sure that the person who has been sent forth will not be sent to the death penalty, which is, after all, contrary to human rights and which we are opposed to in Denmark. Diplomatic negotiations with undemocratic states are therefore not a guarantee of democracy or a guarantee of respect for human rights, and I simply cannot understand why the government and the parties supporting this proposal will be reconciled with that. Although this proposal calls for the prison sentence to be tightened up for breaches of the obligation of residence and reporting, it is of course not enough for the government either. No, it must also be the case that if you do not stay at the exit centre for 3 days in a row, you will have all your belongings removed after just one week. To deprive people who own nothing, the only thing they own, whatever it is, of a photograph of their children or a scarf that their grandmother knitted at home in Damascus, I would say is grossly disgusting, and I do not believe that we can treat people like this in a constitutional state. Now I've used my speaking time. There's a lot to say about this huge bill. I don't think it's a secret that we can't back it in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408141535	There is one question, but before that, I should like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that when reference is made to the Minister, it is as the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and not by name. It's just service information. Then there is a question from Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408141549	I often hear Enhedslisten say that they are sent home to death and destruction, that the system takes them and that they are tortured and all sorts of things. How many concrete examples has the Enhedslisten that people who have returned to Syria have been taken by the system have been tortured and killed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408141608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408141609	Well, we hope there are no examples. The cases we are talking about are, after all, the cases where people are being deprived of their residence and where they say they are being persecuted and consider that it is not safe for them to be in Syria. They do not go back because there is no certainty; therefore they have not gone back.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408141628	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408141629	No, I understand that they prefer to stay in Denmark, but it is just not always that people can. I understand that they are struggling with beaks and claws to stay, and the fact that they say that it is uncertain, and that you fear one thing and the other, you cannot think people in. But I ask about the people who have gone back, the 137 people who have gone back. Isn't Syria safe for them? So, what is the basis of experience in relation to the people who have returned who say that it is uncertain to go back? Well, I hear a lot of punks about that you think that's what you mean. But the concrete assessment of what has happened to the people who have returned is not part of what Enhedslisten says.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408141706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408141708	After all, the people who have returned have returned voluntarily on the basis that they can be safe in Syria, and therefore we must take too good care that they are. The people we're actually talking about here, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, are the people who cannot know for sure in Syria, for example. are politically persecuted, who are on the paragraph of the Aliens Act, which is paragraph 7, paragraph 7. 3 and means that if there is just a tiny improvement in the country of origin, in other words in Syria, then we can deprive them of their place of residence. And that is actually what we are opposed to in the Enhedslisten. We therefore have no objection to people returning to the country from which they have fled, and that is why we are also very much in favour of the repatriation scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408141745	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. And then we welcome the next rapporteur, and that is Mr. Marcus Knuth, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408141802	Thank you, sir. President. I'll try to make this short. We think it's a really nice bill. It makes good sense that in future it will be the Home Travel Board which will advise rejected asylum seekers on their return journey. We also think, as I mentioned earlier, that the government's efforts to get certain refugees back to Damascus are very good; when there is peace in the country of origin, one must of course return home. It is also very bureaucratic to put all the rules in the area of return travel into a single law that is more transparent. For us Conservatives, the subject of return is a top priority. We also think it is good to do more to send more people home, but what we would also like to see and perhaps the minister can do that is that you register or at least are better at registering some of those who leave the country without informing them that they have left Denmark. Unfortunately, too many people still go underground, maybe go to Germany or other countries and then live there. We need to have a better understanding of where people really are. So, as I said, there are a lot of good initiatives here. That said, what I also mentioned to the Social Democrat rapporteur is not in order when you look at some of the other situations in relation to the return journey. I have mentioned that there is a hole in the fence, and I hope the Minister, when he comes to the platform, can tell me whether there is still a gap in the fence, about the computer system that does not work, and about Mohammed Geele, the so-called axeman who tried to kill Kurt Westergaard, that he has still not returned, despite the fact that we managed to have Said Mansour repatriated. So there's a lot in the real world to do. That said, the bill as it stands here is very fine. We hope that it can correct some of the other criticisms I have made. We support the draft law as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408141952	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408142008	Thank you. Our usual rapporteur could not be here today, so I have just promised to say a few words about this. It is, of course, a major legislative proposal and there are a lot of different things among them, and some of them we think are actually positive in it, and then there is something that we are not very much in favour of. We believe that this could potentially be another patching-up solution that does not solve the things that you want to solve and that there is actually a bigger return. I would like to touch on one of the points that I think is actually quite reasonable, for example. the point of interrupting execution if you think you can send people home. In fact, we think that is quite, quite positive. So if SF succeeds in dividing up this bill, there will certainly also be elements from here that we can support in that bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408142056	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is just a little despriting, and the next rapporteur is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408142117	Thank you for the floor. As far back as 2002, I wrote a contribution to an anthology which dealt with the immigration problem that a large majority of Denmark could see at that time was gradually coming out of control, and in that contribution it says, among other things, that the issue of travelling out of Denmark should be extended to the entire immigration agenda, for example. in cases where you have lived here for a long time and found that living in a secular rule of law or in a country where you have to support yourself is not the issue. And all good things come to him that waits. For this bill is a corner of the problem, i.e. those cases where you have no basis for staying in Denmark and where you should therefore leave the country. But the very fact that we are getting more exits on the agenda is very, very positive and a step in the right direction. These are not the cases in which the migration from one country to Denmark has been a failure and one should go home to one's own country, which is more royal, but they are people who have no basis for being here and who should not be able to obtain a basis for it through circumvention or fixed-fix series of one kind or another. This is all moving in the right direction, and that is why the Liberal Alliance supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408142304	Thank you to the rapporteur. That was the end of the rapporteur's line, and then we go to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408142323	Thank you to the rapporteurs, the parliamentary parties for the receipt of the bill and for the debate that has taken place in this Chamber today. I am, of course, pleased to note that there is support for the draft law. After all, it is a draft law which contains a number of new initiatives designed to contribute to the return of more people without legal residence in Denmark to their own country. In addition, it is a proposal to bring together the rules for the return of foreigners into a single main law precisely in order, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur says, to prevent the law on aliens from becoming even more confusing than it already is. When we move the rules on the return of foreigners from the Aliens Act into the new proposed Return Travel Act, it also brings about a number of changes in other laws. This is among other things. amendments to the Return Act and the Penal Code. The changes in the laws are also contained in the bill. It is important to me and to the government that more people travel home without legal residence, and we have therefore presented a number of initiatives in the area of return travel within the last year. One of the measures is that last August we set up the Home Travel Agency, which is located with its head office up in Birkerød in North Zealand, and which, with a more firm hand towards expelled criminal foreigners, rejected asylum seekers and other foreigners without legal residence, is working hard to get more people to travel home. Now we take the next step and put forward a bill on a new return journey law. With the law, the government wants to bring together all the rules in the area of return, ensuring a clear and clear framework for what is to happen when a person is refused a residence permit and until his or her return journey. In addition to transferring the rules in the area of return from the Aliens Act to the proposed Return Travel Act, we also propose to introduce a series of new initiatives which will allow a more streamlined and transparent process to be set up in the return journey phase, which will help more foreigners to return home. Among the new initiatives, for example, are: the introduction of a clause on housekeeping orders, which will result in a much faster removal than is the case today of surviving property from the aliens who disappear from the exit centres. There is also a proposal to introduce a period of reflection for rejected asylum seekers so that they take an active position on their own situation and have the opportunity to return home with a cash bonus after refusal of asylum in the first instance. In addition, we will strengthen the ability of the authorities to output data from the mobile phones of the rejected asylum seekers. We also propose to introduce the possibility of interrupting a short prison sentence with a view to sending a criminally deported foreigner, compulsory digital communication through an e-Boks-like solution, a return contract and the establishment of a clear legal framework for assessing when a foreigner is considered to contribute to his or her own departure. The Government believes that, with the introduction of a new travel law, we are sending a clearer signal that foreigners who are not legally resident in Denmark should return to their country of origin and, at the same time, we are sending a strong signal as to the consequences that will have for foreigners if they do not leave. I would like to conclude by thanking you for today's debate on the various initiatives in the legislative proposal, and I fully admit that it is quite a mouthful to have to fight through. It has also been to prepare, but I hope that for all those involved, if nothing else, it will create more clarity and transparency about a process which is also difficult for the authorities, but which is also difficult for many of the people we want to go home with. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408142712	There are a few questions. The first is from sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408142716	Thank you to the Minister and the Minister can almost guess what I am going to ask. It is, of course, whether there is still a hole in the fence in Kærshovedgård, or whether it has been sorted out. And, of course, also, if the minister thinks it is fair to proclaim himself as Minister of Immigration, when you can see that there are massive problems around Kærshovedgård with Mohamed Geele, who is still away sitting in Denmark and with residents around. There's a resident who, according to B.T. has spent 150,000 kroner. to buy a dog to secure its property, because these residents at Kærshovedgård can wander out of a hole in the fence and still away is in Denmark instead of being sent home.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408142753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408142754	There's no hole in the fence. Of course, it was patched up as soon as it was discovered. Kærshovedgård is not a prison, so the people who live there can actually just walk out and into the gate. However, it is important to have a fence around the centre, partly in order to control the obligation to stay, partly because it is not a place where unauthorized people just have to roll in and out. There are also some of those who live at Kærshovedgård who have contacts out in Danish society that we do not want to run around in Kærshovedgård.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408142830	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408142831	Thank you. Then we could also read in, I don't remember whether it was in Politiken or in Jyllands-Posten here at Easter that record few in the last few years have just returned home, also among rejected asylum seekers. So that's, I'd say, despite corona. So will the Minister still think that it is okay to appoint himself as Minister for Exodus when there are actually record few who have left Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408142857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408142858	I read that article well. Actually, I don't think it was entirely true. For what the newspaper has done is that it has seen how many from certain nations have left. And it is true that, for example, there is. are fewer Syrians. This is because there are significantly fewer Syrians who have been denied asylum. Then, on the other hand, there are some others where there are more who are left out. And, overall, we have seen no reduction in the number of rejected asylum seekers in relation to exit, except for what has been affected by the covid-19 situation. But not otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408142932	Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408142934	I have some specific questions. When do we see a solution to the Kærshovedgård problem in relation to crime in the area? When are we gonna get a replacement for Lindholm? Will the Minister consider increasing the bonus that a municipality can get every time they return a fugitive? Will the Minister arrange for an agreement with Assad so that we can actually get refugees who no longer need protection? And will the Minister ensure that we in the committee receive a monthly statistics on the work and success of the Return Travel Agency in the area of return travel?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408143024	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408143026	The previous government agreed with the Danish People's Party to establish a new exit centre on the small island of Lindholm in Stege Bay, and this is a project we have cancelled because we thought it was too expensive. However, we actually agreed with the intention of separating those who have been refused asylum and those who have been sentenced to expulsion. And we continue to believe that the last group should leave Kærshovedgård, and we will present a solution and that is to say somewhere before the summer holidays. I would just like to come back to the question of whether you can raise the bonus to municipalities if they get more people to take advantage of the repatriation scheme. I have not thought about it myself, and I would actually urge the questioner to put it as a question to this bill, because then we can get the answer to it fairly quickly. We are not interested in concluding an agreement with Assad without our allies in Europe and North America being somehow involved. We are not going to go on an exclusive foreign policy basis in relation to the civil war in Syria. I think it is absolutely essential that the West should stick together there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408143125	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408143127	I didn't get an answer as to whether or not a monthly statistic would be transmitted. I hope we can get that so that we can follow this very closely, because we fully support, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, a more active return policy. But we are always concerned that it is more empty rhetoric than it is action, and this unfortunately shows very clearly when it comes to Syria that one wants to talk about sending people home, but it ends up being afraid to cooperate with Assad, and it ends up being better to give them an integration basic education and then give them a job, and then they can stay here by the way. So we think it's very, very important that we can see exactly what's happening in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408143206	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408143207	In fact, I am very much in agreement with the rapporteur. I myself am very much in favour of political discussions being qualified by raw data, which is why it frustrates me when I get a question from the Danish Parliament about statistics in the field of return travel that it often says in the answers from me that it requires a manual count. Because I think that we are living in 2021, and there we should be able to draw that statistics fairly easily. So we have not yet built such systems, but we are working to build them up precisely so that we can draw statistics in reality on any day and see exactly how many people are in exit positions on different bases. And as soon as it is in place, I would also very much like to ensure that there is regular briefing of the Danish Parliament, for example. the number of rejected asylum seekers in the exit position.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408143251	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408143253	In part of the consultation answers, there is a great deal of concern about this payment of DKK 20,000 that you can get if you give up your right to complain. We are also very concerned about this in Enhedslisten for several reasons. One of the reasons is precisely what Amnesty International and Danish Refugee Aid writes in their hearing answer, namely that you may risk that some who have received a wrong decision end up not complaining. What will the Minister do to ensure that this situation does not arise?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408143327	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408143329	Well, first of all, it's something people decide for themselves. They can just say no to the cash bonus, and then their case will automatically be appealed to the Refugee Board, because that happens automatically today. In the old days it was the case that if you were refused from the Foreigners' Agency, you could choose whether to complain to the Refugee Board, and then there were some who were going up on the plane just before they entered the cabin, saying: Hey, I'm complaining. And then we were about to start a case in the Refugee Board because they have a right to complain. Then it was decided that we are now simply automatically complaining to the Refugee Board so that we can get through both bodies. But we can now see that there are some nationalities in which virtually everyone is refused, including in other bodies, that is, in the Refugee Board. To be quite honest, there are probably also some who seek asylum in Denmark who know very well that they do not need protection, but use the asylum system to be able to have a stay in Denmark. I think that is untenable, and there I think that instead of complaining automatically after the first refusal, you can create a window where you say: Now we sit down and talk about your case, and if you insist on accusing it, that is fine, because we are a community of law. But there is also the possibility that they accept an offer to go home and then get 20,000 kroner. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408143442	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408143443	But I do not buy at all the premise put forward by the Minister that some people are seeking protection, that is, seeking asylum, but really do not need it. Well, it's a pretty profound and great thing in a person's life, in a person's life, to flee, and I just think that what the minister says doesn't recognize it. But I would like to ask again: does the Minister not have any concern at all that these people who are in very vulnerable situations, precisely because they are on the run, are accepting this money because they see that they have no other choice and therefore end up with a wrong decision? Then we no longer have a community governed by law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408143521	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408143522	I am not worried because I trust that it is reasonably wise and enlightened people who are able to see through their own situation. I would like this to be the case, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur says, namely that all those who use the asylum system were refugees. The truth is that most people seeking asylum are denied asylum both in Denmark and in Europe. They are not refugees, and a lot of them know it very well. But they may have had to pay a smuggler to get a seat in a boat across the Mediterranean by collecting money into the community or family and spending all their money and standing in Denmark with empty pockets and finding it embarrassing, and have no opportunity to return without having anything in their pockets. Then I think it is better that Danish society says: OK, we acknowledge that you have spent some money on some people smugglers, so we make sure that you get a cash bonus if you go home after the first refusal. It will be a huge gain for Danish society, because it is so expensive for us when they anchor, and we know that many of those cases will end up with the refusal being confirmed, that is to say, with a no. It is in everyone's interest, so I think it is positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408143617	Thank you. And then we say thank you to the Minister. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration Thank you very much). As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408143647	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408143701	Thank you, Mr President. With the motion for a resolution B 181 the Danish People's Party proposes that before the end of this parliamentary assembly the Danish Parliament instructs the government to adopt a ceiling on non-western immigration. The reasons for the proposal include: read that the Social Democrats' foreign policy proposals • Legal and realistic • Foreign policy that brings together Denmark • from February 2018, in the opinion of the proposers, contains good intentions, and this also applies to the Social Democrats' proposal for a ceiling on non-western immigration, and it is of course clear that I am pleased that we agree on this. In general terms, I would say that it is important for the government to keep track of the influx of immigrants to Denmark. That is why we are also pursuing the strict immigration policy, which the majority of the population supports, and which Parliament has been supporting for a number of years now, and on which I would not agree, but on which there has at least been a large majority, and we are also constantly trying to do more to keep the number down. At present we have the lowest asylum rates in man's memory, and at the same time we spend more money to help people closer to the conflicts, and all that is good. I think it is good for Danish society, and it is also good for the world's refugees, who get more help from Denmark in this way, and there is also more on the way. At the end of March, we have tabled a proposal for a new Return Act, which we have just dealt with first, and the government expects to table a bill very soon to allow asylum seekers to be transferred to asylum and accommodation in a third country, and then we will continue to tighten up the expulsion rules which we have supported in recent years by looking at whether there is room for further tightening in the area of expulsion. In the comments on the resolution we are debating today, I can also read out that the authors of the motion seem to feel that there is a need to give the government, and now I am quoting a loving push in the right direction. My view is that a loving push must be taken in the spirit it is given, but as the examples I have just mentioned show, the government is, in fact, already moving forward in implementing an alien policy that ensures control of the influx. However, if I am going to go a little deeper, there is behind the tight immigration policy a desire to strengthen the cohesion of Denmark, because our capacity to accept new immigrants depends on our integration efforts being able to keep up, and that is precisely why the social democracy's pre-election aliens include a proposal to introduce an indicative ceiling on non-western immigration, and I can guarantee that it is also a priority for the government to set such a ceiling. Without going into the internal processes of government, I can say so much that we are in the final phase of the government's thinking on how to shape it in concrete terms, including • and this is also important for us • the connection to the forthcoming economic negotiations with the National Association of Municipalities. So I can also reassure the proposers that it is certainly my plan that the government's initiative is neither half-yearly nor full-year in the future. In relation to the motion for a resolution, it is so specific that the Folketing should require the government to adopt a ceiling before the end of this parliamentary assembly, and in this respect I can say that our assessment is that there is no need for legislation to introduce an indicative immigration ceiling, and therefore we cannot support a proposal requiring the government to draw up such a law. However, as I said, I expect to present the government's model in the near future, so I will sign for the intention behind the loving push that is the purpose of the resolution, but also make it clear that it is not really necessary. We are on the way, and with those words I can say that the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144053	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. There are a few brief comments, and I would like to begin by giving the floor to Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144100	Thank you, Minister. Can the Minister not see the complete occult of the Minister and the Social Democrats going to the polls on a promise of a ceiling on non-Western immigration, and that, when it is so that exactly the same proposal comes to the Assembly, then they cannot vote in favour of it? And in the meantime, the Social Democrats have actually not really done anything to introduce this. After all, we Conservatives have proposed in the negotiations on citizenship a ceiling on how many Danish passports can be granted to applicants who do not come from the EU and the Nordic countries, and the Minister has so far failed to do so. But since it was the case that the Social Democrats themselves went to elections on a ceiling on non-Western immigration, can the Minister at least accommodate us Conservatives in that we set a ceiling on how many Danish citizenships we allocate to people who do not come from the Nordic countries and the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144154	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144155	I believe that the negotiations on new rules on citizenship would like to be held in the negotiating room. We are deeply concerned about implementing the things on which we have gone to the polls. We have already tabled the first draft law dealing with foreign fighters, and citizenship has been withdrawn from foreign fighters. We also voted for a ban on anti-democratic donations, for example. Mosques in Denmark, and we have also achieved that. We have also gone to the polls to double the fines for people who had illegal labour, and it has also been implemented, even with a unanimous parliament. I would say that we have carried out many of the things on which we have gone to the polls. There is also some of the things on which we have voted that have not yet been implemented, for example. an indicative ceiling on non-Western immigration, and that must be implemented, and we will present it, and, as I said in my speech, it will not take half or full years. But that will not require legislation, and that is why I do not think it is baroque that we are saying no to this resolution, which, of course, requires the government to table a legislative proposal in this House too. That's not where we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144256	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144257	I would just like to follow up briefly if the Minister says that it does not take half or full years: why not vote for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144305	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144306	But for us there is also a connection to the economic negotiations that the Minister of Finance conducts every year with the National Association of Municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144316	Thank you. The next one to which I would like to give the floor is Mr Spencer. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144320	It says in the proposal made by the Social Democratic Party in 2018 that "the Danish Parliament sets a political ceiling for how many non-western foreigners can come to Denmark every year." It says here, and I assume that the Minister will recognize his President. We have then tabled a motion for a resolution which states that before the end of this parliamentary year the Danish Parliament will require the government to adopt a ceiling on how many non-western foreigners Denmark can accept. It is one of the things that is in the Social Democrats' proposal. It doesn't say that it has to be in the form of a law. So, for my sake, the Minister can choose entirely in what form he will get the ceiling adopted, as long as it is adopted, both because it is an excellent idea, but also because he has promised it to his constituents. So I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to come up with a slightly better explanation as to why he cannot vote for this proposal, as one to one is a repeat of what he went to the elections in 2018 as a Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144419	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144420	Now it was perhaps a rather selective reading of our aliens' proposals • Fair and realistic, because in this proposal it is also quite clear that it is linked to the fact that we have the asylum procedure moved outside Europe's borders before a real ceiling can be set. Until then, it will be an indicative ceiling. So there's like two paces in this, and in the first place it's about setting up an indicative ceiling, and there's a dialogue with the National Association of Municipalities part of the process, and I also have to have some kind of respect for that, both if I'm to be honest with what we've chosen, but also if it's to work in reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144502	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144503	Yes, but did we get it as a guide? I have not noticed that there has been any guidance. But that is what the Social Democrats are proposing here with Mrs Mette Frederiksen on the front page. It is true that you would like to have a reception centre outside Europe, and then it says quotes until it is in place, the ceiling will act as a guide. Where's the string?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144528	It is not yet there, but it will come, and it will not take half or full years. However, as I said in my speech, we are at the end of some intergovernmental processes, and I can lift so much of the veil and say that this also requires a dialogue with the National Association of Municipalities, which is why we are not yet where there is a guideline. But there is a guide.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144548	Thank you. The next thing to make a brief comment is Mr Spencer. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144551	Yeah, well, now it's gonna be a piece of shit. So, you've been in power for almost two years, and then you're gonna stand here from the platform and say to the Folketing: yes, we're at it, and we're at it. No, if you have gone to the polls on that and if it was important, you would have set it at the forefront as something you would like to introduce. There is, of course, not a long legislative process with regard to this, but it is just to table a motion for a resolution, and then I actually think that there would be a majority in the Parliamentary Assembly so that it could be voted through quite quickly. But it hasn't come from the government, and now you're saying this about an exit center going abroad before you want to go this way. So I just have to ask the Minister: if such an exit centre is not possible, does this mean that it is completely dispensed with and that there will never ever be a ceiling on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144637	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144637-2	Finally, I would like to say that it is fairly clear from the Justice and Realism programme that we went to the polls on the fact that a real ceiling can only be established if a reception centre is also established. Therefore, we have to do things in the right order, that is, first a reception centre and then a real ceiling. But until then, the ceiling will, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt also read out, act as a guide. And is it important? Yeah, we think it's important. But we can't start everything at the same time. When, for example, Insecurity broke out around some of the camps in Syria, where there were also foreign fighters, there was suddenly something else that moved absolutely at the top of the agenda, and that is why we had an urgent bill on the withdrawal of citizenship from foreign fighters, and this was so moved forward. Everything in its time, but we're gonna make it, and this is definitely one of the things that I'm looking forward to presenting and that won't take long. But we are not quite there yet, among other things. because it also presupposes a dialogue with the National Association of Municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144735	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144736	Yes, a dialogue with the municipalities is probably that the government and the Folketing say that max. so and so many people stay at the ceiling in Denmark, and then the municipalities have to adapt to it. I guess it's the reverse world that it's the municipalities out there who have to decide and say that they want it that way, and that we from here in the Folketing then set the law and set the ceiling according to what the municipalities want. Then the Minister couldn't go a little further on who decides this ceiling? Is it the government and parliament, or is it the municipalities that have to decide what the ceiling should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144810	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144811	I will tell you when we are ready to present it, but we are not yet. Firstly, we have come to the vote on the fact that it is not Western immigrants, but some of what I have increasingly started to care about is that it is a category that includes many different types of immigrants, where half of them actually come from countries where, historically, we do not have such great integration challenges. So perhaps the target group should be narrowed a little into being what I call MEAPT countries, i.e. from the Middle East and in that area, and there are a lot of the details I would like to get in place so that it sits in the closet right when I say it, and I am not so sloppy with this from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144853	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. There are no more short remarks and we need to get the booze off. Then we should welcome the Minister's party colleague. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Stoklund from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408144915	Thank you, President. With this resolution, the Danish People's Party wishes to impose a ceiling on non-western immigration to Denmark by the end of this parliamentary assembly. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that there must be strict control over the influx from the Middle East. Uncontrolled influx from this part of the world has over the years created major problems, problems that we are struggling with today: Parallel societies, unemployment, crime, antisocial behaviour; values that are diametrically opposed to our values. These are problems that we will be struggling with for many years to come, and they will only increase if we do not act. That is why we presented a comprehensive alien initiative in 2018, to which the proposers also kindly refer in their comments on the motion for a resolution. Here we are proposing to introduce a ceiling on non-western immigration into Denmark, and we are proposing to move asylum procedures outside Europe. These measures must slow down the flow to Denmark so that we can deal with the problems of integration at home. The office is preparing a model for our proposal for a ceiling on non-western immigration and, as work has already been started on drawing up such a model, the Social Democrats do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145031	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145037	- Sir... Rasmus Stoklund does not understand that for people outside this Chamber it seems paradoxical that when you make a proposal with the exact wording which Mr. Rasmus Stoklund's party went to the polls on, in this program, Mr. Rasmus Stoklund to vote no? Now the Minister for Integration was saved by the fact that I could only ask two questions. Because that was a really bad explanation for the Minister. He said we'd do it in a legal form. That's not true. The proposal does not say anything about how to implement the Social Democracy promise of a ceiling on non-Western immigration. That's why I think that Mr. Stoklund must have the chance to give a better explanation than the one the Minister did not provide.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145132	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145133	Thank you, and first of all I would like to refer to the comments made in the proposal, which states that it takes more than window staff and slogans to set a new course, it requires action, a willingness to go the way one preaches. That is quite right, and that is also the action we have been working for since we took over government power. The establishment of a reception centre is the most important condition for the success of this ceiling. The reception centre is negotiating with a number of countries, and hopefully we will get to the end of it. And on the day we are in line with it, we also have better opportunities to introduce this ceiling, which is already being worked on and on which there is a parallel track, as the Minister also explained very well. That is why I think the most curious and weird thing is that when we talk so warmly about our proposals in the comments on the motion for a resolution, we will not be wholeheartedly supporting the legislation needed to put the reception centre in place. So why doesn't the Danish People's Party support this? It wasn't a question, 'cause I can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145230	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145232	I would like to answer that, because Mr. Rasmus Stoklund well, because the proposal that has been put forward is not the proposal that has been promised to the Danes. And I can promise you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund and the Minister, if he listens, that if there is one thing that we in the Danish People's Party are engaged in, it is to keep the Social Democratic Party up to the shift that has been tried to suggest to the voters that they have implemented, but that is not really true. And the fact that you have promised in your 2018 proposal to implement this, provided there is an exit centre in a third country, is true, but that is not the whole truth, because you write that it should apply now, just as a guide. The Minister was not able to explain where that string is, it may be that he has gotten so violently into it that he can't remember it anymore. Then perhaps I think the rapporteur could do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145317	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145318	I think the Minister replied that a work is now under way to draw up a model and that this is a cooperation with, among others. also KL on how it should finally be designed, but that it is also related to our plan and objective to set up a reception centre in a third country. And that's where I'm going to answer it, sir. Morten Messerschmidt started by saying, 'cause that's true. This is completely the goal that we are working towards, which is also presented in Justice and Realism in relation to establishing a reception centre.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145351	Thank you. The next thing I would like to make is a brief comment, Mr President. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145355	Thank you. Now the Minister says that the reason why the Social Democrats are voting against it here is that it will be introduced within the next half to full year, whereas the resolution here says at the end of this parliamentary assembly. So, if we make an amendment, and I think we can make that resolution, where we change the wording from before the end of this parliamentary assembly to the wording used by the Minister, which is within half a year or a whole year, will the Social Democrats support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145428	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145429	No, I can't imagine. Well, I think I understand what this is about. You've been sitting around in our undoubtedly exciting aliens play with many good ideas, and then you've thought about how to help you get credit for some of those ideas, and you're putting forward a whole series of resolutions that then deal with these different ideas. I understand that, but you do not have to do that at all, because you can just back them up on a regular basis when legislation is being put in place. For example: We have recently had a little debate on this bill to prepare Danish law and Danish legislation to deal with a reception centre, that is, the changes in the alien law that are required for it. And it's such a good place to start backing up if you really back up the suggestions that are in fair and realistic terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145513	Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145514	It is quite paradoxical, because it is not just a single text in the Social Democratic motion that the Danish People's Party has taken. After all, there are now three successive motions for resolutions which we support and which contain the main themes of the Social Democratic election programme which have not been implemented at all. Had Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, when he became rapporteur for foreigners, expected him to stand and explain over and over again why the Social Democratic Party votes against the election programme on which the Social Democratic Party was elected?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145547	The last thing I didn't have time to think about. I didn't expect to work on foreign policy at all, so I got busy enough trying to get into it. But I would be better able to understand the criticism if it were the case that we weren't working on trying to achieve these ambitions. If it were not because we were in the process, I would be able to understand it, and then I would also understand that a lot of our good ideas were written off and tried to table them as a motion for a resolution. But now we are in the process, and since these are a bit complicated proposals, and since, like Rome, it is not something you just build on a day like that, you have to arm yourself with a little patience.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145624	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145627	What this is all about is that the Danes have unfortunately experienced a long history in relation to the politicians in this Parliament saying one about immigration policy, but do something else or do nothing at all. That is, of course, what we are talking about, and that is the concern about whether we are now in the same situation where the parties before the elections say they will do something, but after the elections it just does not happen. It's gonna be a jelly jar, and then you pull it, and then you can go to the polls on it next time. So that's the concern. When I look down on it, I'd like to ask you a little bit about that ceiling that you're going to introduce with this center abroad. Is this to be understood as allowing an x-number of people from the centre to enter Denmark, and the rest must then stay in the centre, or can they not get a residence permit at all, or what does the Social Democracy think about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145721	Two things. First of all, I can reassure Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen says that we are, of course, working hard to implement the proposals in this pre-election exercise. So there he doesn't have to worry at all. Then to the other part around a reception center. In short, the idea of the reception centre is to get to Kastrup Airport, apply for asylum in Denmark, get screened, then be put on a new flight and flown to the reception centre. And then you live there while you can't be in your homeland. But the idea isn't that some of them are sitting in this reception centre, who will then travel back to Denmark on a third plane. Well, no, that's not the point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145803	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145804	When we wonder about this, it is because, although the Social Democratic Party chose to pursue the policy pursued by the previous government in the field of foreigners, although it was not very strict, what has actually happened over the last two years is that a number of concessions have been made, for example. where more money has been given to families of children from nonwestern countries. So that's why we have this concern. Because we can see that there's starting to be a track record where you don't deliver on these things. Now it is a simple suggestion that you say that okay, there should be a guide until you can. This could be adopted quite quickly. A resolution could be tabled on this and it would probably be adopted. That is why we are dissatisfied with the fact that nothing is happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145841	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145843	It was not quite clear to me what the question was. But the fact that there has been a large number of relaxations, I think, is factually wrong. There are the rules on family reunification, the rules on residence permits, the rules on citizenship, the last of which are being tightened up now. There have been various tightenings elsewhere. We have made it possible administratively to withdraw citizenship from foreign fighters. There have been a large number of significant tightenings. That is funny, because on the one hand we are constantly hearing a lot of criticism that we have horns on our forehead and do not respect the rule of law, and on the other hand I do not know what, and on the other hand it is being portrayed as relaxing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145922	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We're just gonna have to get the booze off. While Mr. Rasmus Stoklund will do so, we must welcome Mr. Mads Bird from the Left. Welcome to sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408145946	Thank you for the floor. In the Left, we share the wonder of the proposers that the government is saying one thing and doing another. Personally, I have read many times Justice and Realism, and in this there are many things that have not been realized yet. It is much in it that seems fair, but it has not been done because it may not have been so realistic anyway. One of those things was the desire for a ceiling on how many non-western foreigners had to come to Denmark every year. It is a ceiling to be fixed year by year in the context of the agreement on the local economy and after the local authorities have recorded how many each can integrate if the effort is to follow. It sounds both fair and, I think, quite realistic to think about it. If this is so realistic, why hasn't the government introduced it yet? I agree that it should be as an advisory body and only later a fixed ceiling, but it would be nice to know what the government is really thinking about, what number it is that can be integrated in the municipalities. I think we will be surprised that in many places it will be lower than we imagine. The economy of the municipalities has now been negotiated twice without the introduction of a ceiling. The government has not made any proposals on this in the Parliamentary Chamber, and the government has not acted on it. It is, of course, becoming such a little characteristic of some of the many good thoughts that are in fair and realistic terms. We have also been waiting for two years to see whether the government reception centre outside the European Union is going to happen. It's waiting for you, too. And now I understand that it all gets entangled in such a solitary, where there is something that first needs to be loosened up before you can get some of it done at all. And then, in some Kafka's way, it magically ends up that nothing can happen at all. It could be argued with a certain degree of justification that the government is probably holding up a little bit of proposals for the electorate without actually having a desire to respond to them. Perhaps the government is having difficulty getting its policy through because it has been appointed by Radicals and Enhedslisten. I don't know what the reason for that is. In the Left, we feel that whether we support such a ceiling depends on how the model is linked together and whether the model is compatible with Danish conditions and Danish legislation etc. However, we believe that the government should present its own policy if it believes in its own policy. And to that extent, of course, we support the intentions of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408150227	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408150231	Thank you. Now I had pressed my mind before the rapporteur reached the last two lines of his sentence. What I wanted to ask was whether the Left would support a resolution to introduce such a ceiling. And then the rapporteur said quite clearly that it depends on how it is arranged. That's understandable. But could the rapporteur reveal how the Left would want such a system to be introduced and set up in order to be able to vote in favour of such a system?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408150256	Sir. Mads Birded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408150257	No, I am not going to unfold from the platform here, how we see it practically done, because there are some problems in making the rules and there are some legal insights that I do not have. So I don't want to do that from here. But if there is a model that the government is going to present, then we are going to look at it very positively. We would like there to be some sort of hand in hand with how many people are being sent out to the municipalities and that it goes with how many people can be integrated out there. We think it is very, very logical that these two things should go together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408150337	Then there is another comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408150339	Thank you. When I ask, it's because we in New Citizens wanted the Left to have invented one of these in 2015, where they just left the doors open and people migrated and now have been here for many years. And if you had had a ceiling then, we would have had far fewer problems than the ones we are facing. We wanted a lower number of rapes, a lower number of cases of violence, and there would be a large number of other areas, and that would have made Denmark a better country. That's why I'm wondering. That is why I am asking whether the Left has not given any thought. And then you say that you don't really want to go into that now. But it's urgent. For far too long, the Danes have had to live with too much misguided non-Western immigration that has come to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408150416	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408150417	But now we do not have the power of government, and it is not our job to present the Social Democracy legislative programme to the Folketing. However, we would like to call for this to be done in the government, because we think that there are good ideas in this, and that is why we would like to see these models. I think this is the right way to do it, in other words to leave the Social Democratic Party to present its own policy. Then we would like to be a part of the birth aid so that it can be implemented when they cannot find out for themselves. And the Danish People's Party must make it as a proposal, and then we are happy to help further in that process.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408150456	The next one is sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408150458	Thank you, President. I completely understand, sir. Birds' concerns, but we know what kind of model it is, at least in part, that the government intends to present. Because, of course, we have the bill on broadcasting to third countries. And what's interesting is you hook up this promise of a maximum ceiling. One thousand non-western immigrants, or at least a ceiling, to have this exit centre. After all, in the draft law submitted by the government in consultation, there is an exception that is even wider than the motorways that the refugees wandered up in 2015, namely section 29 (1). 2. If it turns out that the government with this model gets its exit center, and then there will be more than the ceiling, which will fall under section 29. 2, the exception, will the Left still be involved in enforcing a ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408150556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408150556-2	Basically, I think it is important that we establish criteria for how to obtain asylum in Denmark, which means that we keep the number low. Because I'm not sure that a ceiling can stand for a legal review. That is why I believe that we are promising something that we cannot comply with in practice. But if you can find a way to create a ceiling that works in practice, then of course I will accept such a proposal and look at it carefully. But there are many problems with it. We looked at it ourselves. They've looked at it in Germany. Many have been playing with the idea of creating a ceiling to find out that it is easy to write in a political program, but much harder to make into realism to use that word.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408150647	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408150648	Is it to be understood that Mr. Birdy can imagine that Mrs Mette Frederiksen, as chairman of the Social Democratic Party, has put forward a proposal which she neither intends nor can implement as a government?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408150703	There's some politics now I'm not after anyone when I say this... that's very easy to sell, because it sounds easy: we're just doing this, we can just do this, we're just saying stop, we're just throwing them all out, something. There are many such easy solutions in the field of foreign policy. When you sit and work with it in practice as a serious party, you find that there are things that are easy to say and that there are some things that are much harder to implement. There are certainly things in the 2018 Social Democracy initiative that were easier to say than to do. That is probably why we have not seen any results yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408150739	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. There are no more brief comments. Will Mr. Mads Bird just drank off? Then I do not immediately see any representative of the SF, so we should welcome the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408150855	Thank you. The motion for a resolution here proposes a ceiling for non-western foreigners which Denmark can accept. First of all, I believe that everyone agrees that the number of people coming to Denmark has a significance. But to implement the motion for a resolution here would, on the one hand, be discriminatory because it is so precisely delineated to non-western foreigners, and, on the other hand, it would be contrary to common sense. Why set a ceiling on Indians and other third-country nationals, for example, being able to come to Denmark and become skilled doctors and engineers? Moreover, it would also be inappropriate to set a very rigid and exact ceiling because there may be periods when there is a particular demand for foreign labour. There may also be a special period of humanitarian crises in an area that a ceiling could not take into account. So on that basis it would probably be discriminatory, it would be stupid and it would not take into account a current situation. Against this background, the Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151011	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151016	It is just to hear further: if the rapporteur thinks that the proposal put forward by the Social Democratic Party is discriminatory and stupid, will the rapporteur put the same words on the party chairman, who has his face on the front page of the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151037	I have not seen any proposal in this Chamber about this ceiling, so I cannot deal with the political issue as long as it has not been put forward here, but I will, of course, do so if at some point it is true.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151052	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151053	What I was asking is: if the rapporteur considers the Socialist proposal to be discriminatory and stupid, and when the Socialist proposal is put forward in this publication, which is called 'Righteous and realistic', which has the Prime Minister, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, on the front page, it is as Mr. Kristian Hegaard then says that the Prime Minister is also discriminatory and stupid?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151117	I think it should be the most appropriate thing for us here in the Chamber to take a position on political issues and not do the other thing about saying that some stupid or something like that. I don't like that. I do not think that is part of the political debate. I like it best if we discuss the political content. I think that is what we are elected to do. The other thing I don't think belongs here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151139	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to Mr. Kristian Hegaard. Then I would just like to ask Mrs Lund to spritze off before she has the floor. Here you go to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151220	Thank you. Although for many people it may seem the same, there is a difference between whether you come here as a fugitive because you are persecuted or your home country is at war or whether you come here by other means because you, for example, are at war. marry a Dane, or because you get through a work visa. Whether or not we in Denmark should welcome refugees, I think there are very different views in this Chamber, and we also have quite a lot of opportunities to discuss it, so I am not going to go into that discussion now, because refugees and immigrants are two different things. By the way, we often discuss that too. If we then deal with the issue of immigration and the question of whether we should be able to have a family with our girlfriend in the country in which we were born or whether we should be able to come to Denmark and help us in the areas where we lack labour, the proposers have, over the many years, with the great support of changing governments, made it close to impossible for people without a European passport to come to Denmark. The fact that in the Enhedslisten we are major opponents of the xenophobic policy, which has been the common thread in the struggle for voters over the last few decades, is probably no surprise. We think it should be easier to get to Denmark when you want to be a part of society. We believe that you should have the right to marry the one you love without having to move from Denmark. We believe that children with Danish citizenship should not risk their one parent suddenly being sent out of the country. But what is particularly important now that we have created the system that makes it almost impossible to get into the country is that the legislation applies equally to everyone, even when you apply for entry into Denmark. You are not a burden to society when you come here to live with your spouse. You're not a burden to society when you come here to work. You are no more in love with a person from the United States than you are with a person from South America or another country in the world. And to go in and differentiate between who should be allowed to come to the country solely on the basis of where he was born is not only completely irrelevant, it is also an expression of a disgusting view of human beings. It is an expression that only some people are good enough to come to Denmark to work, that only some people are good enough to fall in love with. How on earth will we, as politicians, decide whether our fellow citizens may fall in love with a Chinese or a Canadian? We're not going to do that by any means. We have tightened the rules so much that it is completely impossible to set a ceiling on non-western immigration. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151506	Thank you, Mrs Lund, for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151512	Thank you. It comes as no surprise, of course, that Enhedslisten cannot support a tightening of foreign policy. That's perfectly reasonable. A party which is in favour of transforming Denmark into an immigrant country should not, of course, work for the opposite. No, what I would like to know is whether the Enhedslisten, in connection with the agreement reached between the Red Parties and the government after the parliamentary elections, has been promised any promises that parts of this programme will not be realized. I think a lot of people are wondering about that. For one thing, what you promise in an election campaign is another: you have to go from being social democracy to becoming government, and then it may well be that some secret agreements have been concluded which we have just not heard of. I actually think that Mrs Rosa Lund should be allowed to take credit for this, if it is the case that the government has just been twisted and that may be why it is so little of this programme that has become law. Then will Mrs. Rosa Lund shed light on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151614	I really wish we had made some agreements with the government about everything they weren't supposed to do, because we have a long list of things that we don't think the government should do. But what we have made agreements with the government about is what we think should be done there, so I can say that we have certainly not been in the Enhedslisten in any agreements or bargaining about things that the government was not allowed to do. We've made some arrangements about what the government should do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151638	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151639	What, then, can Mrs Rosa Lund do with her • at least in relation to me • much more in-depth knowledge of the members of the government thinking may be the reason why you so consistently do not care about the promises you have made to the electorate? In other words, it is not just an individual proposal that I think it is 15 or 16 proposals that I have put forward, one by one has been taken from what the Social Democratic Party promised. So, with Mrs. Rosa Lund's knowledge of the government, what could be the reason why you haven't delivered?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151708	But I could hope that it is because the Social Democrats have come to a better view, that is to say that they have simply become wiser and that they would rather have a different foreign policy than the one on which they were elected. I'd like that. I do not think that is the case. I think what is happening is that they have discovered that some of their proposals are really, really hard to get to do in reality, for example. to create a reception centre in a third country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151732	Thank you. And then the next person I'd like to give the floor to, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151737	Yeah, it was just because Enhedslisten, when Enhedslisten talks about this ceiling, mentions a lot that can't get here with marriage and everything. Could the Enhedslisten not then confirm, also in relation to the Social Democrats' proposals, that those they think should be covered by this ceiling are people who have been granted a residence permit for humanitarian reasons, and not all the others that have been talked about. It is just for us to agree on what we are talking about, what people we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151803	Yes, it is quite correct that that is what they are proposing. But if you set a ceiling like that, it will somehow apply to everyone. Whatever the case, we have the feeling in the Enhedslisten that people who have protection needs are entitled to come to Denmark. That is why we believe that we cannot set a figure or set a ceiling. These two things are somehow connected, aren't they? If you make a ceiling, you also have to put a figure on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151827	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151828	I am well aware that Enhedslisten believes that we should accept a million if that is what was necessary out there. I mean, when you say there shouldn't be a ceiling, it never stops. That is what the rapporteur said. I'm not the one who says that. It is believed that anyone in need of protection should be able to come here. These are not my words but those of the rapporteur. It's just that we've heard about the fact that they say it's gonna hit others. No, a ceiling hits those defined by the law, and no one else. That is the way it must be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151855	That is absolutely correct. I simply discovered in the middle of my rapporteur's speech that this is the wrong speech from the rapporteur that I have taken up on the platform, and that is why I had to change it a little along the way. I am simply sorry about that. But there are six folders on the table. But to answer that, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen asks, is it quite correct that, because we are bound by the refugee convention, we must accept all those who come and seek asylum. We believe this in the Enhedslisten is a good principle. And, of course, I regret to my good colleagues that I made the wrong speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151929	The rapporteur has now done very well in my opinion. Thank you to the rapporteur; there are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408151948	Thank you, President. I would almost like to say that it does not really matter whether or not I have taken the right rapporteur's speech, because we are dealing with a number of resolutions here, all of which have been taken out of the Social Democratic electoral programme: a fair and realistic policy on foreigners that brings together Denmark, and these readings are exactly the same, because time and again we see that this is something on which the Social Democratic Party was elected and which they have not introduced at all. That is why I believe that my speeches are going to remind me a great deal of each other. After all, it is deeply paradoxical that the Social Democrats are going to elections in 2018 on theme by theme and today they are voting against the very things on which they went to the polls. That, I would say, is what one might call electoral deception of the worst drawer. And the irony lies in the fact that when I say to Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, that we could make an amendment because the minister says that the reason why you cannot vote for this is that it has to be within the current parliamentary year so that it goes according to the Minister's wording, the answer is still no. That doesn't make any sense. Well, I don't see that it's anything but electoral deception. After all, we Conservatives have also proposed in the negotiations on citizenship that a ceiling be set on how many Danish citizenship we allocate every year to people who do not come from the EU or the Nordic countries. If the Minister agreed to that, he could at least say that he had then fulfilled some of his promise. Quite frankly, this reminds me a bit of an echo from the past from Helle Thorning-Schmidt, who went to the polls, I think she said a firm foreign policy, after which she relaxed 47 times, according to Morten Østergaard. We support this very good proposal from the Danish People's Party. We would like to thank the Danish People's Party for precisely taking the Social Democratic election programme and tearing it apart and saying: Try to see now everything you promised the Danes without complying with it. After all, this is the policy of social democracy that we want to impose on the government. One would think that the Social Democratic Party would support its own policy; they do not. But we think you should keep your word. That's how it is here in Denmark. Social democracy does not do that with this, but at least we think that social democracy should live up to their own electoral proposal, and that is why we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408152201	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408152205	The rapporteur now mentions that the Conservatives want a ceiling on citizenship. Will Conservatives also support a ceiling on non-Western immigration?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408152217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408152218	Now, after all, this resolution is about the government fulfilling government policy, and that is what we are imposing on them here. But I think that a very fine step in this direction is precisely to introduce a ceiling on how many Danish citizenships we allocate. For as long as you have not acquired Danish citizenship, you are by nature not a Danish citizen, and we can expel you from the country. So I would very much say that is a step in that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408152246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408152247	I know that this proposal is not really about the ceiling, but it is not about citizenship either. That's why you bring things in yourself where you have recommended a ceiling. I would ask the Conservatives' position, in other words whether they also support the recommendation that we set a ceiling on how many refugees or family members from non-western countries will be able to come to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408152306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408152306-2	As I said, when you look at the Social Democrats' proposals, that is not very well defined. You are talking about a reception centre and about restricting immigration in general. I think we are doing this with a great many measures in relation to asylum restrictions. So I think we are very much living up to, let us say, the overall direction of limiting how many people come here, and at least getting a firm, firm ceiling on who can get Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408152330	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. And then there's gotten drunk by it's great. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408152350	Thank you. One of the things that could make me most angry when I looked into the Assembly Hall and the work in there was that parties repeatedly, year after year, to the voters and to the people went to elections on one particular thing, but when they gained power, they did not deliver on it. I believe that the clearest example is that of the expulsion of criminal aliens, where changing parties have in fact, both in 2011, 2015 and 2019, gone to the polls that criminal foreigners must be expelled if they commit crime, but still away to this day it does not happen. And it does not matter whether it is the former VLAK government or whether it is the current government; it simply does not happen. So I can understand if the people out there have an uncertainty and an insecurity, in relation to whether we are now running in the same path, where the people we have put in power, this time the Social Democracy, have promised the voters a large number of things, have gone to elections on this and have said: we are now delivering. And then, two years later, it has still not been delivered; not so much as a motion for a resolution on a ceiling has been tabled. We think this is sensible in New Citizens, and I would say that in New Citizens we also believe that there should be a ceiling and that that ceiling should be zero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408152529	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur on the platform is LA's rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408152550	Thank you for the floor. We have originally had some doubts as to how to read exactly this motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, the motion for a resolution on a ceiling on non-Western immigration, because labour migration, which is temporary and where you have a job and where you comply with the system of amounts, etc., which in some interpretations may well be called non-Western immigration, we do not have any reservations about, but permanent stays for groups that burden the welfare state's boxes and appear in wrong statistics with poor ratios, we are, like many others here in the Folketing, sceptical of. If you read down a little in the proposal, you can see, first of all, as several rapporteurs have said, that it is, of course, a question of updating the just and realistic immigration policy of social democracy from 2018, where they are also using this rather diffuse expression with non-western immigration, but when you read further into the original socialist proposal, it is about a reception centre outside Europe, and then it is clear that this is a discussion about dealing with the issue of asylum. Then the pipe gets a slightly different sound, because it's really, really sensible. After all, we think that one of the finest things you can be as a politician is to be helpful, and we would like to be helpful in all the contexts where we can at all, and the point of being helpful is clearly also the idea of the Danish People's Party, because what the Danish People's Party wants to do, when you read down the proposal, is to be helpful to the Social Democracy, and it is a beautiful human impulse with this helpfulness. Social democracy has something they want; they can't really get it done, but the Danish People's Party offers to help with something that seems to be hard for the big government party: to be a birth aider for this proposal. And if it is good to be helpful, it must be double fine to be double helpful, so we would like to help the Danish People's Party, which will help the Social Democracy. It is of course helpful in second power, and one must strive for that where one can. So this helping to get the Socialists to implement their policies is, of course, something we support because it is a good human and political impulse. So we support this resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408152853	Thank you. Helpfulness did not give rise to any brief comments, so we need to get rid of it. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party, whom we welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408152919	Thank you, President. Today we begin a small odyssey, a journey into what is fair and realistic. See, that's what the Social Democracy back in 2018 called it when it launched its shift from a party characterized by former cultural radicals such as Mr. Sweyn Auken and Birte Weiss and others, and then in the direction of the party you once were, tied to the concrete reality where you did not get a bad taste in your mouth by talking about the flag, talking about the country, talking about the history of your people, etc., in many ways a beautiful journey if it had been a real journey. For what we have unfortunately now experienced, where we are approaching the 2nd birthday of this government, is that you have a very difficult time getting out of the port. The ship is there, the sail is set in the mast, but one simply lacks the will for the captain to set the course, and that is what is sad, not so much for the Social Democracy, but indeed to a large extent for those who believed in them. Why is it so difficult to vote in favour of a motion for a resolution, which is a repeat of what was promised to the electorate two years ago, if it is not because we have decided on a different course? Why should one vote against one's own policy if it was not because it is not exactly one's policy but just rhetoric? I believe that many people who have seen the debate here today have a feeling of agreement and an anxiety about what is ahead. For that is not the only proposal we have today, which the Social Democrats have not realised as a government, but it is a long journey of broken promises that we have to make. I think we are taking a small handful today, and in the next few weeks we will take a bite by bit of everything you promised, everything you said was both fair and realistic, but you have not delivered it. Setting a ceiling on non-Western immigration makes a great deal of sense. Because it is quite obvious that Denmark has problems with non-western immigrants that we do not experience with people coming from the western cultural community. It is quite obvious that while people coming from Israel, Australia, the United States and other developed countries have slipped in and everything has largely made a positive contribution to Danish society both culturally and economically, yes, the overriding lesson is not only in Denmark, but also from the majority of Western countries, not to say all Western countries, that immigration from non-western countries has been fatal, that it has led to insecurity and uncertainty on the streets, where the rate of rape is enormous from certain populations from the non-western countries, where the will or ability to support and support itself is far below the national average. We have had a whole new wave of insecurity in the form of terrorism and radicalisation into Denmark, into Europe through non-Western immigration, and therefore it makes sense to set a ceiling. Then you can discuss where the ceiling is going to be, and sir. Lars Boje Mathisen and I can probably agree that it should be about zero. I am almost tempted to say if you could not get a negative figure so that we could get some more out, but we can discuss that. But not even that far will social democracy go, not even that far will one travel on the journey to comply with what one promised to one's electorate. It is quite reasonable, as we heard both from the radical rapporteur and from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and as we might have heard from other red rapporteurs, if you think it is a bad idea because you think that non-western immigration has been an enrichment; if you think that experiment has just been super fantastic and you need more of it, then it is quite honest to say that this is a bad proposal. But when you have pretended to someone that you thought it was a good suggestion, and then you don't do it, then it's dishonest, then it's distasteful, and then it's electoral deception. It is our duty to expose this deception, not for the sake of social democracy, but for the sake of those who thought that we would have a ceiling on non-western immigrants, because that was what Mrs Mette Frederiksen, as chairman of the Social Democratic Party, had promised them. Today we stand and are wiser, and I believe that the odyssey that we have taken up with this motion for a resolution, which is one of a whole series of motions for resolutions which I have written from what the Social Democratic Party three years ago called "Justiceful and realistic," will reveal the innocence that unfortunately characterizes the party. I don't know if you can blame the Minister. Because I really think that the Minister is doing what the Minister can, and I also think that what the Minister says in the many debates that we have here in the Folketing is what the Minister is thinking. No, the real injustice is that one was so quick to want power in 2018, that one was willing to say anything, but today, for fear of politically correct left-wing people holding one in government offices, for fear of international conventions written long before the migrations that we are suffering today were set in motion at all for fear of them, so still not dare stand up to it. Then it was just rhetoric, then it was just about power, and then we know the social democracy again. 'Cause then we'll be back with Mrs. Weiss, with Mr. Weiss. Auken's office, sir. Lykketoft, sir. Rasmussen, we're where it's about the party before the country, and that's a shame. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408153613	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408153639	The debate is open. The first to be welcomed is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408153701	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Danish People's Party, which has an interest in the government's proposal for a duty to contribute 37 hours a week to all new arrivals and others who have been in the country for a long time but who continue to need integration. It is very positive that the government's proposals seem to have broad support among the parties of the Folketing and that many of us are looking forward to discussing and realising the initiative. We can fully assure the proposers that the initiative of the Social Democratic Party is not merely empty words without action. In fact, we are working so hard to put this proposal into practice, and it is with this plan that we can present a closer model before the summer break. We in the government very much agree with the proposers that we have a major problem with too many people who do not contribute to Danish society. I am thinking here, among other things. in women from MENAP countries and Turkey, where only slightly over 40% of women are women. is in the job. That means, of course, that far too many people go at home in the apartment without taking part in society and contributing to the economy. The clear starting point is, of course, that you have to find a job when you come to Denmark. For those who cannot find a job themselves, with the 37-hour scheme, we must ensure that both mother and father get up in the morning when the alarm clock rang, and that they have a normal everyday life in Danish society, and when they come home, they must be able to tell their children about their experiences among colleagues in the workplace. I think it's good for all kids to grow up that way. As in all other jobs where you are paid for your work, there must also be a link between the effort and the benefit, because you do not show up and if you have no legitimate reason for your absence, you should withdraw the benefit. This seems to us to create a working logic rather than a performance logic. It's important to us. Not least, it will also provide an incentive to find a more ordinary job. The government wants to rethink with the scheme the way we receive new arrivals in Denmark, and also the demands we make on those who have been in the country for a long time. The starting point must be that everyone who comes to Denmark has either a job or a workday equivalent to going to work. Unfortunately, this is far from being the case today. We agree with the ideas behind the proposal as it stands here, but the work to flesh out the 37-hour proposal is extensive and it needs to be done properly. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution, even though, as has already been said, I appreciate the ideas of the Danish People's Party and their support for the government's proposal for an obligation to contribute 37 hours a week. However, I would like to assure the proposers once again that we are so much in the workshop and are working hard to present a scheme before the summer holidays. I also hope that the Danish People's Party will then be prepared to participate constructively in the discussions, so that a majority in the Danish Parliament can come together on a model that can both create something more justice and hopefully also get some more people into employment. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154014	Thank you for your ministerial speech. There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154019	So the government is now promising that a proposal will have been made before the end of the parliamentary assembly here. That is why we are voting against a proposal which requires the government to make a proposal before the end of the session here. Well, it's a completely different language that's being spoken in here now. The Minister has traditionally been very concerned about bringing politicians and people closer together. After all, the Minister cannot be unaware of the fact that there is an abyss of distrust in many large groups towards the government in relation to foreign policy. So if this one to one is what the government intends to do, why don't you just vote yes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154104	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154105	Well, that's because we're going to do things in the right order. When we vote in favour of something in Parliament, it is because there is a finished model that is funded, which is legally clarified and which has been thought through from A to Z. That is how we work. We are not voting in such a way that we commit ourselves to something in a resolution until we have the model in place and it is not yet in place. We have come a long way and we are working hard to achieve it, and we have been working hard on it for a long time. But it's pretty complicated. There are many discussions. But when there is a model, we will put it before the Folketing, and then we hope that there will be a process in which as many parties as possible are constructively prepared to discuss it. Then we hope that there will be new legislation in force in Denmark. We are just as impatient as the questioner is. We just think that this should be done in the right order.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154159	Well, I must not deny it, that the model here is neither thoroughly worked out nor well thought out, as the Minister says, but I have to point out that this is the model of social democracy that we are presenting. What we write, which the Minister does not call through and not thought through, is what the Social Democratic Elections of 2018. It is a good realization to come to the conclusion that what was chosen was not entirely thought out. However, although it turns out that your own ideas have not been as good as you expected, do you not have a duty to vote in favour, if only for the sake of the people who thought that you were in favour of what you said? Is there a single word in this motion for a resolution with which the Minister disagrees, so I would like to hear it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154236	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154237	We stand at the mark of what we have put forward before the elections. Before the elections, we also worked in the Social Democratic Party to vote in favour of legislative proposals that we had been involved in negotiating or which we thought were sensible. Then we put forward political proposals that people can deal with before the elections, just as we did with the Fair and Realistic. And then we are working to have it transposed into legislation and, in the first place, a political initiative which can be the subject of a political debate. We think this is the most serious way of working. Everything else here is relevant because we have good discussions. We just don't have to tell each other that we're getting closer to a bill for that reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154312	Thank you. And the next for a brief comment is Mr. Morten Dahlin from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154317	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the speech. I would actually like to follow up on what my name brother asked the Minister: is there a single word in the proposal we are debating today that the Minister disagrees with?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154330	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154332	Now I have not been through this way with a close chasm, because our starting point is that we want to put forward a finished model which we can discuss with the parties of the Folketing and which, hopefully, can come out of which legislation can be adopted with as many mandates as possible. That is the way we want to work. We do not want to commit ourselves on either time frame or content until we are absolutely sure that both the economy and the law are clear. In fact, I also think it is a very natural and healthy way of working that when you vote for something, you know what the economy is in it, i.e. how it affects our community's treasury, what the job offer is, what it actually costs to activate people 37 hours a week. You have to know that before you press the green button; otherwise I think we are fighting blindly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154416	Here you go, sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154422	The Minister has not been through the proposal with a close comb, he says. The proposal is on two lines... copied directly from the playout... Righteous and realistic... an alien policy that brings together Denmark... which I strongly suspect the minister of his own writing. Can the Minister not understand if there are some Danes sitting out there thinking that it is a little strange that there is a party here that makes the Social Democrats' own election proposal word for word, and the Minister says that he agrees, but the Minister refuses to vote in favour? Can the Minister not understand that some people are thinking about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154456	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154457	Yes, yes, but listen to me: is this controversy and teasing or are we going to have a political discussion with each other? The lines of the proposal are: The Danish Parliament instructs the government before the end of this parliamentary assembly to have introduced a duty for all immigrants on integration benefits and cash assistance to contribute to the labour market for 37 hours a week. We have to, for example. to find out how to demarcate immigrants. Are those people who have been immigrated 50 years ago and who are on cash benefits? Or should it be limited in time in a different way? Should it be immigrants with an integration need, as we say in fair and realistic policies that bring together Denmark? Yeah, we think so. And then you have to define what an integration need is. This opens up a thousand different discussions which we look forward to taking with the Danish Parliament's parties. We think this is the right way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154542	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154544	But, to be honest, Minister, this has been taken verbatim from the government's own initiative or from the Social Democrats' own initiative. The Minister then says that he agrees with this, but it is one more equal to the idea that the Social Democratic Party itself has made. Does this mean that the Social Democrats now only generally agree with the ideas of the Social Democrats themselves, but not in detail? Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154610	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154612	This means that when we press the button, there is more than one and a half lines, and that we, for example, are left with one-and-a-half lines. has been fully clarified with regard to the target group. Immigrants on cash benefits sound like a very well-defined group, but if you look into it, there are many questions: Is it Swedes who have migrated 40 years ago and who are on 1 day's cash benefits and who then the next day should be included in a 37-hour integration program? I think that would be a little crazy myself. So let's just discuss it and it's just one discussion out of really, very many discussions • how to delineate the target group. When we press the green button I would also like to call on Conservatives and, incidentally, the Left and the Danish People's Party to clarify what it is for a target group we are discussing here, what the economy in it is, how the law in it is, what it has from other secondary consequences on the cash benefits system. What is more, should we not also wait for the benefit commission, which has been working for a whole year to look at the rates of cash benefits? I think there are plenty of things that it is relevant to wait, so you take things in the right order. And then it is perfectly legitimate for this proposal to be put forward. I also think it is perfectly legitimate to keep us in the Social Democratic Party on our electoral vows, but it will, I think, be a rather indifferent discussion if it becomes something like this: why don't you vote for your own policy? Let us have a political discussion on the substance; I would very much like to take part in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154720	Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154722	But can the Minister at least agree with me that there is a completely paradoxical pattern here? Just before we discussed the Social Democrats' proposal for a ceiling on non-Western immigration, we are now in the process of making a proposal on cash aid, and we are about to discuss the Social Democrats' proposal on personal crime. And to the Danes who sit and follow and look forward to the next section tomorrow, Friday, when we will be discussing the Social Democrats' proposals for the reform of Schengen and for family reunification, I would say that I do not think I will surprise anyone by saying that the Social Democrats are voting in favour of that too. Can the Minister not see that this is completely paradoxical?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154759	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154800	These are not our own proposals; they have been put forward by the Danish People's Party. The government's own proposals will be put forward when we come to that and then they will be worked through; then they will either have been through a political debate or they will be put forward directly as a legislative proposal. We have been through fair and realistic policies that bring together Denmark, also as a government party, several times. There is not one of the proposals we have abandoned; there is not one of them that we are not working on. We're working on the whole badroll from A to Z, so it's not because we've thrown it in the drawer and don't care. We have also implemented a large part of fair and realistic foreign policy that brings together Denmark. I mentioned some of that in the previous reading, for example. on... now the President stands up. But it is not because we have not done anything; it was really just my point.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154839	Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154842	I would like to speak in substance and, in our view, anyone who smokes on cash aid should work 37 hours, including a Swedish immigrant who has come here. Why wouldn't he contribute? Why wouldn't he work if he came on cash? I don't see a difference there. Why wouldn't he? Now we were debating before, and Igua is something that then entitles you to a daily allowance. Does the Minister think it reasonable that a fugitive who comes up here and has been in an Igu process should not be included in this? Or does the Minister also believe that such a refugee should be subject to the new rules in 37 hours, which the government will present at some point?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154923	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154924	Our proposal is not that people taking part in 37 hours' work should be able to graduate into the cash register system. If people who are covered by the 37-hour work obligation go out and find themselves an igu-lever's place, it is only positive that they have become self-supporting, and then they have become part of that system, and then I think it makes sense that they can graduate into the benefit system if they become unemployed after their basic integration training. But it's not like these 37 hours will, what to say, count as working hours in the cashier's system if that's what's being asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154955	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408154956	No, but it's clear that if you're a fugitive, you can say: if I can get into the Igu system, I won't be included, and then I'm not going to work afterwards, so when I'm done with this, I can, even if I get unemployed, go for two years, and then I won't be on this benefit again, and then I won't be forced to work. But people who don't do do. And I am glad that it has now been specified that Igus are not included, even if they are returned, by the fact that they also have to work 37 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408155022	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408155023	I don't think there was a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408155028	It's really good. There are no further brief comments to the Minister, and we would like to thank him. I'm gonna have to get a little booze off before the minister goes down. Then we turn to the rapporteur's speeches and the first rapporteur is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408155052	Thank you, President. With this resolution, the Danish People's Party will require the government to introduce a duty to contribute 37 hours a week for immigrants on integration benefits and cash benefits. It has to be said that the Danish People's Party is kicking in an open door, because that is what we are doing. In the Social Democratic Party we think it is worrying that many people originating in the Middle East are on public support and are outside the labour market. The Danish welfare state was not created to support an ethnic subclass of people, too many of whom originate in the Middle East. Both men and women originating in this part of the world have too low employment rates. This is confirmed annually by Danmarks Statistik's publication Immigrants in Denmark, and on this basis we proposed in our 2018 aliens' initiative to introduce a duty to contribute 37 hours a week to non-western foreigners on integration benefits and cash assistance. Care must be taken to ensure that benefits and efforts are in line with each other. That is why this motion for a resolution is not necessary either, because the work is well under way, and the aim is, of course, that negotiations should be convened in the Folketing in a relatively short time. The Social Democrats do not therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408155207	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408155211	In fact, I remember two New Year's speeches from the Prime Minister, where she mentioned these ideas that foreigners should work, both at the transition from 2020 to 2021, and also at the transition from 2019 to 2020. Well, then, sir. Rasmus Stoklund therefore understand that one is gradually a little bit suspicious, in relation to whether it is really just a joke or whether it is something one really wants? What has actually prevented the Social Democracy, which, as you know, formed a one-party government in the summer of 2019, from transforming this into a reality until now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408155252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408155253	Well, the Social Democrats and the government are trying to make this happen by preparing it. Negotiations will be convened. We awaiting the Service Commission it is not news; it has been known for a long time that the report or statement, or whatever it is called, was a prerequisite. And that's why I think it's a little misleading to draw this picture that it's not really working with this, and that it's just something we put in the drawer like that after we took over the keys to the PM's office.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408155327	Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408155328	But it is the case in politics that we have to show it, and nothing has happened. And that is why, I think, most people will sit and say that perhaps it is very good that there is a Parliament that is keeping a little eye on what the Social Democrats are really doing. For what guarantee can Mr. Rasmus Stoklund then issue? If you are not prepared to vote in favour of this resolution, which requires the government to respond before the summer break, what guarantees can Mr. Rasmus Stoklund then give that it comes within this parliamentary period?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408155356	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408155357	Well, sir. Morten Messerschmidt is right, and I can see that the same text has been used in the comments on this proposal, namely that it takes more than window staff and slogans to set a new course, and that is true. It requires action, as it says. And that is what the government is providing, in that it is preparing the negotiations that are now being called for. We'll wait for the Service Commission, and then we'll land a model for this. And I understand the need for controversy and teasing and such things, but I could better understand it if there was no work going on; there is, after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408155430	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408155434	Now the Minister mentioned that with the possibility that someone who had migrated from Sweden could be in relation to whether or not the person should be included. In other words, in a few years' time it will not matter whether you have migrated from a non-western country from North Africa or from Sweden. But now that we're looking at this, does the rapporteur think, and does the Social Democrats think, that there should be a difference between where you're immigrated and whether you should be included in working 37 hours if you come on cash benefits? I mean, is this the geographical area from which you come, which is supposed to determine whether you're going to work 37 hours?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408155509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408155510	I do not dare to get to grips with what this final model should look like, because it has to be negotiated with the Folketing. So it would probably be wrong for me to stand and conclude something now, but what was also a point in that context, as I heard the Minister before, was that it was not just about which country one came from; it was also a question of whether it was someone who had been here for so many years, i.e. for example. A Swede who has come here 50 years ago and then at some point later in his life comes on cash benefits, is he also covered by this? No, he may not be. Now we have to wait to see how it's all worked together. But there may well be some time limit in relation to how long you have been in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408155550	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408155551	Now I know I haven't been in Parliament for a long time, but you can't run that thing on me. I am asking about the position of the Social Democrats and not about what a final bill looks like after negotiations have taken place. I am just asking about the position of the Social Democratic Party, in relation to whether you do not think that anyone who smokes cash aid should get out to work for 37 hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408155608	Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408155609	I've noticed, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen's desire to appear so, as if he were one of the people, and he is not a part of the assembly in here, but so he is. He's a politician on an equal footing with the rest of us. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen and yours have been in the Folketing for an equal period of time, so I don't think we have anything to let each other hear about on that front. But I'm not gonna stand here and conclude anything. In other words, if there are to be debates in the Folketing on how this legislation should be linked, then I should not be standing here and interpreting the text and concluding something in advance. That would be weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408155636	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. There are no more brief comments. We're gonna have to get the liquor off, and while Mr. Beckett doesn't know what he's gonna do... Rasmus Stoklund will do so, we must welcome Mr. Morten Dahlin from the Left. Here you go, sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408155704	Thank you for the floor. After all, this proposal addresses a major social problem, namely that it costs us billions and billions more that we have far too many immigrants and refugees who are dragging their lives on passive support. That is just the economic cost, because we have the social and cultural costs alongside it. Therefore, the joy was great for many, including myself, when the Social Democrats in the election campaign said that they would now do something about it, that this should now be resolved. We in the Left support this and we have put forward a plan to introduce an obligation to work, abolishing the right to come to Denmark and receive social benefits from day one. That option must no longer be available. If you are going to be in Denmark, you must support yourself, and you must preferably find a job, otherwise we will find a job for the person who can solve for your benefit. It is about a simple principle, namely that one must provide before one can enjoy. And honestly, if you can go from Kabul to Køge, you can also go down to the park and collect garbage. Unfortunately, the government has not chosen to follow up on its own promises. In fact, the government has chosen to do exactly the opposite, i.e. raise the social benefits to unemployed immigrants and thus reward those who do not contribute to the Danish community with a tax-free check in through the letter box every single month. It was then the only group in Denmark that the government did not think should pay any more in tax. This proposal requires the government to live up to their own electoral promises, and it's the least you can do to try to solve this problem, and I really just think that the government should get started. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408155833	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. Then the next rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party is. Mrs. Halime Oguz, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408155907	Thank you. We discussed the same resolution tabled by the Conservative People's Party a few months ago, and that is why I will repeat my words. In the SF, we agree with the proposers that a close link with the labour market is important and that we should be better able to get new entrants quickly into the labour market and integrate, and that is why we also think that a 37-hour solution sounds exciting to people who need quick contact with the labour market. Firstly, it is important that a proposal as intrusive as this one has been worked out, submitted for consultation and that it is legally in place. Secondly, a motion for a resolution such as this is something in which the Danish trade union movement and employers should be involved quite deeply, and we must also bring more companies into it. The Danish People's Party can say that everyone has to work for 37 hours, but how it is handled in practice is a huge break in the Danish labour market, and here the trade union movement must of course be involved in every step of the way. It is important for the SF that this bill makes sense and actually contributes to solving the problems of unemployment among immigrants. It is also crucial that the 37 hours of activation are meaningful for the individual and actually help to integrate the individual into society, both in terms of work and in terms of education and preferably in combination. With these comments, I would like to say that the SF cannot support this motion for a resolution as it stands because we know that the government has a similar bill on the way. In this context, we would also call on the government to develop this bill in a negotiation process involving the social partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408160104	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408160107	I am fully aware that this proposal cannot, of course, be implemented immediately. That is not what happens if a majority of the members of the Folketing vote in favour. So what happens, if a majority of the members of the Folketing vote in favour, is that the government is then required by the end of this assembly to have made this arrangement. So I do not quite understand why SF, when it actually sounds like Mrs Halime Oguz, that one basically agrees that foreigners should work and be self-supporting, etc., cannot just vote for this, all the time that the only thing we do if we vote in favour as Parliament is to oblige the government to do what the government has promised, but apparently it is reluctant to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408160145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408160146	So, as I also mentioned in my speech, it is of course important that people get to work, because work provides freedom and independence. It is also important for the children who grow up in those homes that they have parents who get up every morning and go to work so that they have strong models. If we then vote against it, then it is because we know that this bill is on the way, and it is important that it is discussed thoroughly, and it is important that the parties of the Folketing are involved in negotiating it. It is also important that we have the trade union movement inside. So that's why.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408160221	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408160223	Well, I have to say to Mrs Halime Oguz that there is nothing in this resolution that prevents the government from involving the parties of the Folketing. There is nothing to prevent the government from making a proposal in this motion for a resolution. The only thing this motion for a resolution ensures is that the government has to put forward the proposal. And if the SF is so concerned that the government is delivering its promises, and now we are approaching the third year, when nothing has been done actively, that is, from 2018, when the proposal was tabled, why not act? Is it not almost Parliament's duty to ensure that the government does what they have promised the electorate?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408160255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408160257	Yeah, sure. It is Parliament's duty to press the government to honour its promises. But we have also had a lot of other things on the agenda. All of a sudden, we had a corona outburst, and then there's been some other stuff. So it is clear that things may sometimes be a little late, but I am pretty sure that soon, very soon, the government is on its way with something thoroughly worked out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408160321	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. Mrs. Samira Nawa, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408160347	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you to the Danish People's Party for the opportunity to discuss this very important issue. In the Radical Left, we agree entirely with the authors that being in work is a crucial part of being integrated into Danish society. It not only provides knowledge of the Danish labour market, but it also creates a network and some relationships that make you feel like a deep-rooted part of Danish society. In addition, we are of the opinion that it is not only reasonable, but also quite important, that we make demands and expectations of each other, especially in the employment system, where the whole idea of the Danish model is that we have a safety net that grabs us if we lose work, but at the same time that we have an obligation to actively re-enter the labour market and contribute when we are able to do so. The activation effort plays a central role here, as it is intended to reduce the gap between unemployment and employment, and for new entrants the activation effort must help to show the way into the Danish labour market. That is why we in the Radical Left would always like to take part in looking at whether we can improve the effort, because it is ultimately a successful activation effort that benefits everyone. However, in relation to the outlines of the government's proposals, as they are drawn up, and what the authors of the motion for a resolution are putting forward here, we in the Radical Left have some reservations. As far as I can understand, the government is very inspired by the Norwegian introduction programme, where participants are obliged to take part in 37 hours of activation a week, which, like to give the feeling of having a real working week when dealing with the level of activation. But from the level of activation we have today, there are far up to 37 hours. Newcomers on integration benefits are those who get the most activation with an average of 19 hours per week, and non-western immigrants on cash benefits are those who get the least, with an average of only 4 hours, and of the latter it is 42 per cent who do not receive activation at all. It's pretty obvious to me that 4 hours of activation a week is too little. It is not good enough that so many do not receive activation at all. But with that being said, it seems a good idea to have to raise the level of activation to 37 hours from one day to the next, especially if there is also to be quality in the effort. That then leads me to the second objection, which we also have in the Radical Left. Basically, we believe that it is a wrong approach to have a target of hours alone and not to look at the quality of content. The Minister said in January in an interview in Weekendavisen that emphasis would be placed on cheap forms of activation such as utility jobs. It is very possible that we can get benefit recipients to spend 37 hours a week in useful jobs, but it is more doubtful whether it really brings people closer to the labour market. On the other hand, there is greater evidence that training for skills can increase employment in the target group, especially in the longer term. So we do not want cheap and bad solutions. We want good solutions because it will be a good investment. We do not want people to be parked on cash aid. It's not in anyone's interest. On the radical side, for example, we have. In addition to this, it is important to ensure that young people are able to take part in training courses for long-term recipients of cash benefits. The last objection I have is that we are only looking at non-western immigrants. Cash benefit recipients with Danish background receive an average of 6 hours of activation per week, and that may be more than the 4 hours, but it is still too little. If you really have a rocky belief that 37 hours of activation a week is the right solution, why should it not be offered to everyone? The conclusion from this must be that we are looking forward to the forthcoming negotiations, which I can hear are scheduled for, but we do not therefore support the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408160809	Thank you. And there is a brief comment. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408160812	I just want to say that is it not the case that we do not support the resolution or that we do not support the intentions of the Socialist programme? Because we know that Radicals are typically not part of the government's, what to say, natural territory when it comes to foreign policy. So is it because the Social Democratic Party is not in favour of what the Social Democratic Party has said, or is it because it is not in favour of the Folketing requiring the Social Democratic Party to implement the policy of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408160837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408160838	First of all, we do not see this as a foreign policy, but as an employment policy; it is a question of getting people into work, and that is the starting point for us. And there I see a lot of good surfaces, both with the government and with other parties in the Folketing, and there we have many things to agree on. We are in favour of a good employment effort, but of course we are also in favour of it being offered to everyone, whether you have a Danish, Western or non-Western background.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408160908	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408160909	After all, what the programme says here, which Mrs Mette Frederiksen is on the front page of, is that the Social Democratic Party will introduce a duty to contribute 37 hours a week to all immigrants on integration benefits and cash benefits. Quote out. And I think the Prime Minister has repeated it in two New Year's speeches. And I would just like to ask: is this something that the Radical Left sees itself as part of, or does it say no? It is just important for us to know what we parliamentaryally have to play with, in other words, whether radicals are going in a direction in advance where they say that you do not want to be a part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408160938	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408160940	We're not saying no in advance. As I hear the Minister, a number of debates have been launched. We are very happy to take part in them by the Radical Left, because we are quite concerned that there is a strong and good employment effort, both for people with immigrant backgrounds and others who may be outside the labour market today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408161001	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408161018	Thank you. I've checked three times that this is the right speech I brought up this time. As mentioned in the motion for a resolution, the proposers want to give the government a loving boost in the right direction. It is, of course, a feeling we can well recognise in the Enhedslisten, although we often wish to push the government in a different direction than the proposers. I actually think that we all agree here in the Folketing that it is good to be in work or in education that it is a good thing to have something to stand up for in the morning. I am of the opinion that all people would like to contribute what they can to our community, but I think that this motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party is quite wrong, because it is not dealing at all with the barriers that exist today, so that some people with an immigrant or refugee background are not part of our labour market. If we look at the barriers that exist, because whether foreigners are going to work, there are three challenges in particular. One is education, the other is language skills, and the last is disease. Therefore, we must be better able to provide refugees or immigrants with trauma or disease, and we must ensure that the offers we offer them help to upgrade and retrain them, and we must ensure that we have good language training. I have no doubt that being able to speak the Danish language is the way into both our education system and our labour market. That is why I believe it is our job to ensure that there is the best possible framework for acquiring Danish, even though the individual has a responsibility as well. There are many who come to Denmark from the country from which they have fled, with an education that is not recognized at all in Denmark, and therefore they cannot use it. That is why we have to look at whether they should be retrained or whether we can make an up-skilling to enable them to work within what they have already been trained for. Education brings people closer together, but our labour market is also linked so that education brings people closer to the labour market. This applies not only to foreigners in Denmark, but to all of us. That is why action is clearly an important area. We think that the idea of making more foreigners and refugees part of the Danish labour market is good. A job is a very good way to integrate, to make Danish friends and colleagues and to acquire the culture, language and standards we have here. That's a good thing. I think you will learn that if you become part of the labour market. Nor am I a second in doubt, as I said before, that the vast majority of foreigners and refugees have a huge desire to get a job as quickly as possible. So it's not the motivation it's wrong with. Studies from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration show this. They point out that foreigners and descendants are at least as concerned about having a job and contributing to society as all of us. There's just not always a job to get. I do not think this resolution takes that into account. With the proposal here, we can actually make it even harder for people on the edge of the labour market to get a job, because if we force people for 37-hour activation, there are suddenly up to 30,000 people who have to work for free. And the thing about vacuuming the labour market for exactly the type of jobs that people on the edge of the labour market can get, I think is a bad idea. The useful jobs referred to by the proposers are not a solution either. It is pushing wages, and it will make it even harder for a great many to become part of the working community that is so important for integration. I think, and we think in the Enhedslisten, that what is crucial is that there is equal pay for equal work. Now Mr. Morten Dahlin, that if you can go from Kabul to Køge I think that's the comparison we got today... you can also collect garbage. Well, of course you can, but you have to get exactly the same salary to collect garbage as everyone else. I simply fear that this resolution will lead to wage dumping. Finally, there is a completely blind spot in the proposal which does not take into account the additional barriers that people with an immigrant background have to face. We are not talking here about disease, education and language, but about one thing in which we as a society fail. In their large study of this area, the Greenhouse has concluded that meaning, coherence, momentum and higher expectations are needed if these people who are outside the labour market are to become part of it. We must therefore have higher expectations of those who are outside our labour market. And to say that some people have to be activated 37 hours a week doesn't live up to any of these things. By contrast, making targeted individual interventions with qualification and internships that are targeted at the individual is something that works. But it's not gonna be done today. And regardless of whether you set someone to collect envelopes for the municipality 37 hours a week, they will not get any closer to getting a job if we do not help them overcome the structural barriers that exist in our society. So no thanks to utility jobs, but yes, thank you for a determined and meaningful effort. The Enhedslisten cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408161529	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408161532	As I said earlier, it is quite reasonable, it is clear that if you have gone to elections with a promise to get more immigrants to Denmark, you should not support the Danish People's Party's proposal. That's gotta be it. However, what I would like to ask Mrs Lund, who has a more thorough knowledge of the government than I may have, is what she thinks it is doing for those who voted in the Socialist elections, in the expectation that the programme that had been presented a year before, Justice and Realism, called it, would become a reality when you saw here two after, soon at least, the government became a government, that far, by far, the vast majority of the programme has not been translated into reality. What does Mrs Rosa Lund, a Member of Parliament, think about the general view of what we are doing in here at Christiansborg?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408161633	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408161634	Well, I have to start by saying that it's always exciting when mr. Morten Messerschmidt somehow tries to present what Enhedslisten went to the polls. We didn't actually go to the polls on more immigrants or whatever it was, sir. Morten Messerschmidt was told. I think it's generally a problem when politicians promise things they can't keep that I think it's a huge problem but I actually don't think we're in that situation with this one. Because we are waiting for a Commission of Service which we can all be really tired of has been delayed, and when it has come and there is still not being delivered on these things, I would like to go into the conversation that says whether there has been a failure here. But I do believe that we are still there, even though I do not entirely agree with what the Social Democrats want with 37 hours of activation. I think, as I said in my speech, that we all agree that it is good to bring people closer to the labour market and to become part of the labour market, but I am concerned that the proposal made by the Social Democratic Party will be something similar to this one where there is no equal pay for equal work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408161733	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408161734	I fully understand that. What I am just aiming for is democratic cohesion. How long does Mrs Rosa Lund believe that the Social Democratic voters, who have believed since 2018 that this was going to happen, have the patience to wait? Does Mrs Rosa Lund think that there will be a reaction to confidence in the democratic system if nothing happens before a parliamentary election, or does Mrs Rosa Lund think that it can go all the way to the end of this decade? What is Mrs Rosa Lund's democratic sense of the red electoral base?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408161815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408161816	In general, I find it difficult to understand why Social Democracy is being voted on. That is why I am a member of a party other than the Social Democratic Party. I believe that democratic understanding in general is difficult in Denmark, among others. because it is so difficult to get access to the work we do in here, to the work that is going on in the administration, among other things. Because we who are sitting in here have much better pension conditions than you have on the other side of the walls. I think there are many reasons why democracy and democratic understanding lag behind, and I can understand it if some people think why social democracy has not delivered on one or the other. I am more disappointed that the Social Democrats have not delivered on some other things, on economic policy, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408161904	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Sir. Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408161924	Thank you, President. I shall be very brief because this motion for a resolution is almost identical to the resolution we Conservatives had in the Chamber not very long ago, and that is precisely why we, like the Danish People's Party, are outraged by the fact that the government is not fulfilling the promises that were made to the elections. And not only that, because, as we can see both today and tomorrow, it is not just this proposal, it is this, plus five other very diverse proposals, in which the government has gone to the polls on some very, very big headlines, but has not introduced it in any way and, at the same time, when the government will not vote for their own policy, it will be almost tragic. But what is almost even more tragic is to see the government's own support parties. I understand that they would not support any of the proposals that come before and after this, but this very proposal is about getting more people to work. It is also something that the government's support parties are actually in favour of, but one is obviously so worried about stepping on Mette Frederiksen's government over its toes; one would not want to go against Mette Frederiksen's government so much that one still bends its neck and follows the government, which says: Well we will not vote for our own policy. If there are Danes sitting out there wondering why Mette Frederiksen has completely free roadway to do exactly what she wants, then I think one could initially look at the government's support parties, who are in favour of the policy that supports this policy, but who still choose to fold the cards and just do as Mette Frederiksen says. Frankly, I think it borders on a disgrace to democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408162104	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408162126	I must be honest and say that at first glance I was actually about to think that we in New Citizens would vote against this resolution because we have the basic position in New Citizens that public services should only be for Danish citizens. So that way, this proposal wouldn't matter if you looked into New Citizens. But I could not, however, attribute those intentions to the Danish People's Party; I think we agree with New Citizens in that area far along the way. And then it is about the current state of affairs that we have refugees in Denmark and that, unfortunately, the current state is also that they receive benefits that they should not receive, and there we think it is only fair that they come out and do something from benefits that they receive. So, of course, we can support the government in presenting what they have now said since 2018. Now you have the power. Use the power for what has been said to the citizens you want to use the power for. That is why, of course, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408162227	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408162256	Thank you for the floor. Generally speaking, I am very interested in a certain type of case where there is a huge majority of the population who want things to be in a certain way, but then they will not be the way the majority would like. And the avoidance of passive support, I imagine, is such a good example of something for which there is a very, very large majority in the population. Because when I think of these cases where all people want things to be in a certain way, but they don't get like that, I look beyond this venerable assembly and think: if only there was a way to change the rules in a legitimate way! Imagine if it was the case that someone was allowed to make decisions on behalf of the community and get them implemented! Isn't anyone allowed to do that? That's almost what you'd think when you're standing here on Parliament's platform. So when there is a large majority who wants something, you should think what to say that the most democratic and politically safe thing was to implement it, and that is why you should also think that the Social Democrats are grasping this opportunity to implement their programme with a kissing hand. For the last time I looked into the constitution, I got the very clear impression that the Folketing is exerting considerable influence here in Denmark, and therefore it is quite incomprehensible to me that the government cannot vote in favour of motion for a resolution B 186, which is of course the government's own policy. It is simply a political cheek with three things: it has popular support, it has a guarantee of political success, and it has even been upheld by the Constitution. You can't object to that. There is simply no reason to say no to such a cheek egg, and that is why LA supports the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408162513	Thank you. That did not give rise to brief comments, so thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408162535	Thank you, President. Every year, immigration from non-western countries costs the Danish community over 30 billion. kr. There are plenty of good things that could have benefited Danish society, for which that money could have been spent. That is why it was a good day to read: "Therefore, the Social Democratic Party will introduce a duty to contribute 37 hours a week to all immigrants on integration benefits and cash benefits. The contribution may consist of useful jobs, company practice, Danish education, job search or a combination. An activity plan shall be drawn up for each individual corresponding to the length of an ordinary working week. The obligation to contribute is subject to sanctions if you do not participate. For example, you meet. not up on Monday, you do not receive benefits for that Monday. You would almost think that it was the Social Democratic Party of H.C. Hansen or other singular social democrats who had written it here, and that is actually meant as a compliment to the Minister for Integration, because I am sure that he, if he has not been a pen-leader on it, has certainly been quite involved. It's part of this project that we in the Danish People's Party have caused the Danish Parliament to dive in the coming weeks. I sense an almost uncontrollable joy about that, at least on this side of the Folketing, but a growing irritation about that side of the Folketing. And the irritation can be divided into two: one is that for the socialist parties and the radical party it is exhibited that the social democracy that we are dealing with, or at least had to do with before the parliamentary elections, was not the same as it was five or ten years ago, when you could really get involved and realize all your crazy ideas about Denmark as an immigrant country and multiculti, and what do I know? But it is clear that for social democracy it is just fundamentally annoying to be reminded of what it was that was promised to the electorate before entering government. Today we are faced with a promise that has not yet been fulfilled. What we are proposing in the Danish People's Party is completely unolenic to oblige the government to do what the government said it would do before it became government, but just was the Social Democracy. We can then see that the Social Democrats do not intend to vote in favour. You have a lot of thoughts and visions that at some point, it's gonna come, I understand. Rasmus Stoklund and probably the Minister, but no specific time has come for the ambition to be realized. It may be because if you look at what the government has actually done in relation to the benefits and employment policy towards people from the non-western part of the world, it is after all since the parliamentary elections have gone the wrong way. Where you promised that you would take these people into employment, you have instead chosen to increase the benefits. Where they said that they would make sure that people could support themselves, last year, in connection with the corona, they chose generously to round up a tax-free check of DKK 1,000. even to people who had just set the sandals in Denmark. Yes, even in the field of unemployment benefits, the rules have been relaxed. It has to be said that if you sit outside this system and maybe just follow Danish politics through the newspapers, it must gradually be wondering, because what has happened to the Mette Frederiksen who became Prime Minister a few years ago? Why hasn't she translated her policy into reality? That is the question we are seeking answers to, and we are only just getting started. This is going to be an exciting journey into understanding the two social democracies that exist: that which is just the Social Democracy and that which is the governing party. It was a second stop on the journey. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408163009	Thank you. There is no brief comment to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408163025	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408163044	Thank you, Mr President. In dealing with the previous motion for a resolution, we were looking for a 'bodyssé'. Now it's a stop on the journey. I liked the sailing better, with high waves, so let's just hold on to it. With this resolution from the Danish People's Party, it is proposed that laws be implemented before the end of this parliamentary assembly to ensure that citizenship is denied in cases where a person, for example, is not present. commit serious personal or drug crime. I would like to start by mentioning that in 2019 the government put forward a proposal to allow administratively to take the citizenship of persons who have taken a course of action seriously to the detriment of Denmark's vital interests if it does not lead to statelessness. The purpose of the amendment was in particular to allow administratively to deprive foreign fighters who are outside the country of their Danish nationality if they do not thereby become stateless. Currently, in ten cases, we have deprived foreign fighters of their Danish nationality on the basis of the rules, and none of those who have been deprived of citizenship have so far entered Denmark. There are a few other cases pending in the Ministry and of the ten cases the five have been brought before the Danish courts and no judgment has yet been delivered. I am very pleased that these rules are being applied and, as you know, last year the Folketing repealed the sunset clause for the rules on administrative withdrawal so that we can also make future use of the rules. In addition to this administrative withdrawal, it is also possible to obtain the nationality of a judgment and, as far as I am just aware, it has happened in at least six cases. As stated in the government's legislative programme, the Government will make a bill that persons convicted of certain types of serious gang crimes which seriously harm Denmark's vital interests may be denied their Danish right of citizenship in the context of the criminal proceedings, unless they thereby become stateless. It will then be the next stop on the journey or bend to the sailing • we must cross. In this respect, it is also worth noting that we are also bound by some international conventions. Those who are interesting in this connection are called the stateless Convention and the National Convention, which means that we cannot deny statelessness and that disqualification can only take place in certain specified cases. This applies, among other things, when a person has acted in a manner which seriously harms the vital interests of the State. But the opportunities for disqualification within that framework must be exploited to the full. That is the position of the government, and that is also why the government intends to put forward the bill I mentioned earlier that persons convicted of certain types of serious gang crime which seriously harm the vital interests of Denmark may, in the context of the judgment of the criminal proceedings, be deprived of their Danish right of birth, unless they thereby become stateless. In addition, if it can be established that there is room for extending the possibility of depriving persons who have committed other serious crimes, such as: drug crime, their Danish citizenship, then the government will be ready to take advantage of that opportunity. However, I would like to point out that it is not enough to deny citizenship that a person has committed serious crime, including gang or drug crime, because it is the result of the international rules that we have agreed to. Crime can thus only lead to disqualification if crime has such a character and gravity that it can be said to be seriously detrimental to Denmark's vital interests. As we have not yet examined the question of disqualification, for example. I cannot say at the outset whether it will be possible to put forward a legislative proposal on the subject. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution which states that legislation on this subject must be implemented in this Assembly. But we agree with the intention, provided that the withdrawal does not lead to statelessness and, as I said, if there is an opportunity to go further in relation to the withdrawal of citizenship, then the government will be ready to act on it and take advantage of that room. After all, this is also a subject which, at least several people in the House know, must be discussed in the context of the current negotiations on citizenship. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408163506	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408163509	After all, it was a long and fine and fine speech, which just does not really reflect what the Social Democracy promised before the elections. So, as you know, I am now at the forefront of the debate on fair and realistism, where you can read on page 31 that the Social Democratic Party proposes that it should be possible to deny persons their Danish citizenship if they, for example, are able to do so. commit serious personal or drug-related crime. And then it is true that if you read Article 7 (d) of the Convention on Civil Liberties, there is only one reference to matters where the vital interests of the State are at stake. But now that the Social Democrats have taken the trouble to be so specific and to talk about seriously dangerous and drug-related crime, it has surely also been ensured that what was promised to the electorate was feasible within the framework of international conventions, from which I understand there is no intention to resign. So just as an introduction to this odyssey: Can the Minister confirm that he will be able to realise the promise he has made to be able to deprive the right of birth of people who commit perilous crime and drug-related crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408163616	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408163617	In fact, I think we are already doing this. So, point 1: Foreign warriors have to be said to be perilous crime. Paragraph 2: The legislative proposal we have already announced is certain that it can be implemented within the framework of international conventions, namely gang crime. And then I say, paragraph 3: We are in the process of examining whether you can go further, and if you can, we are also prepared to go further. And, as the questioner also knows, it is also a subject that is currently being discussed in some debates. And if it ends up with an agreement that will also extend from gang crime to other crime, then the government is also prepared to go further.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408163658	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408163700	But I am fully aware of the ongoing negotiations and welcome the movement that we are also on. But it doesn't change keeping what you promise. And the Social Democratic Party has promised its constituents and Danes that Danish citizens who have been naturalised and who commit dangerous and drug-related crime must lose their citizenship. Is it to be understood that only a single or very few parts of the criminal code's provision on personal or drug crime are going to lead to destruction? Because I think most people have read it in such a way that as long as you are convicted of drug-related crime, you have to lose your citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408163740	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408163741	Yes, but again there may also be a little selective reading from that program. It is also clear from this that this must be done within the framework of international conventions. It is so possible with foreign fighters, and that is why we have done so. It is possible with gang criminals, and that is why we intend to put it forward. And it turns out that it may also be possible for further types of crime, and then we should also use those opportunities. I actually think that's keeping what you promise.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408163808	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408163810	Yes, thank you. After all, the Minister spent much of his speaking time talking about the proposal on foreign fighters adopted by the previous government on foreign fighters, but which was then first implemented by the current government. If we are to talk a little about the proposal that was actually made here today by the Danish People's Party, I would like to ask the Minister: can the Minister understand if there are voters in Denmark who have voted for the Social Democracy with the expectation that if the Social Democracy won the elections, the Social Democracy would introduce legislation that would take the citizenship of people who committed personal or drug crime? Can the Minister understand if there are voters who have that opinion?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408163853	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408163854	Well, I hope that if there are voters who have read that section of fair and realistic policies that bring together Denmark, then they have a hope today that you should be able to disclaim the citizenship of people who have committed personal and drug-related crimes, if possible within the framework of international conventions. And I hope that the very same electorate welcomes the fact that we have already taken the first important steps and that the next ones are already in the pipeline or in the hoist, or what is said in Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408163924	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408163926	But can the Minister understand if the voters are disappointed, given that the government does not choose to live up to what the Socialists promised before the elections, that is, the voters who voted for the minister because the Minister promised to take the citizenship of people who committed dangerous crimes? And the Minister hasn't done that. Can the Minister not understand if there are some people out there who are disappointed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408163948	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408163949	Well, to the extent that the voters agree with me that foreign fighters and gang criminals and people who commit personal and/or drug crime, I hope that they are happy that we have adopted the first and that we are on our way with the next. I don't understand this chatter. In other words, what is important is that we adopt the legislation that makes it possible to withdraw citizenship unless people become stateless if people have committed serious crimes which are detrimental to the vital interests of the state. I guess that's where we're going.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408164021	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408164024	I noticed that the Minister used the term 'we are bound by international conventions', and when you use the word bound, there is, of course, the fact that you cannot free yourself: there are others who have tied you to it. The correct term is, of course, to choose in all areas to give more weight to these conventions than, for example. the Danes' security by not expelling criminal aliens and by not taking citizenship away from them. Because there is surely no requirement to withdraw from all parts of a convention in order to introduce, for example, a convention. What is being asked for here is to be adopted. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408164110	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408164111	Well, now that we are at the antiquity and the Odyssey, it is true that we have committed ourselves to the mast, as other European countries have. It was something that happened after the Second World War because Europe had thrown itself into letting go of all reins to civilisation and had ended up in barbarism, and it was therefore decided that there must be limits to what a government could move from. That is the basis of the international conventions to which we, indeed, have not been bound. That is a relevant comment, but it does not change the fact that the Danish Government, like other previous Danish governments, is pleased that we have joined international rules and that we are not going to break the agreements we have entered into.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408164201	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408164201-2	I would like to ask the Minister if it is not true that Denmark has joined these conventions for a period before the conventions were applicable to Danish law, and that it is only something that has been done afterwards and not right after the Second World War, so that it is a process in which, in what can be said, recent times, at least from the 1980s onwards, some of these conventions would count over Danish legislation. But they didn't at first, didn't they?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408164228	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408164229	I simply do not dare to answer that with regard to the stateless Convention and the Convention on Civil Liberties. I simply do not know, but I would very much like to reply to it in writing. It is true that it is not all the international conventions that we signed up to in 1945 and 1946. In other words, a great many conventions we have signed up to much later, in my lifetime and recently, and therefore it cannot be said in all cases that they are just direct products of the holocaust. Much of it is much more recent.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408164300	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408164301	Thank you very much. We Conservatives think it would be fantastic if we could now do this, that is to say, denying citizenship of dangerous crime. Now the Minister says that what the Social Democratic Party voted for cannot be implemented anyway, and that is, after all, in spite of the fact that the Social Democrats' own electoral programme says: citizenship can be denied in cases where a person, for example, can be denied. commit serious personal or drug crime. What, then, will the Minister say to one of the many voters who perhaps voted for the Social Democratic Party, who is now very, very disappointed that suddenly the Social Democrats will not introduce what was elected?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408164345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408164346	I would say to the person: Paragraph 1: Also read the line of the Justice and Realism where it says that it is done within the framework of the international conventions. Paragraph 2: Rejoice that the Foreign Warriors Bill has not only been passed, but also has effect and functions as intended. Point 3: Rejoice that there is a bill on the way for the withdrawal of citizenship for gang crime. And paragraph 4: Look forward to a majority of the Folketing agreeing, hopefully, on a new agreement for the granting of citizenship, for there may be more packages under the tree at that time. So there is plenty to rejoice about if you are one of the many sensible Danes who voted for Social Democracy in the last election.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408164425	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408164426	It sounds as if the government is well in the process of fulfilling all the wishes that were put to the vote, but now we are standing here with six different cases of the Minister's voting against his own proposals. So if the Minister is really one hundred percent on the right track, why not just vote for the proposal that lies here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408164444	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408164445	Oh, I wish everything in fair and realistic terms had been fulfilled, but it is not, and I have my own neat systems to make sure that there is process and momentum in all the promises we have made, and I can assure the rapporteur, the questioner that there are, and there are also lots that have been fulfilled, fortunately. But there are plenty that have not yet been fulfilled, which we are still working on, and which we are looking forward to presenting, and which will also be presented on an ongoing basis, and this is just one of many, and this is also on the government's legislative programme.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408164514	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. There are no more brief comments. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. The first is sir. Rasmus Stoklund from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408164534	Thank you, President. The Danish People's Party proposes with this resolution to deny individuals their Danish nationality in cases where personal or drug crime has been committed. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe, as a starting point, that people who have committed serious crime must have withdrawn their Danish citizenship whenever possible. As the authors rightly point out in the motion for a resolution, we proposed in our 2018 aliens' initiative that personal and drug crime should lead to the withdrawal of Danish citizenship, provided that this is possible within the framework of our international obligations. Since the 2019 elections, we have made it possible to deprive Islamic State terrorists of their Danish nationality administratively, provided they have dual citizenship. So far, this has led to ten people having been deprived of their Danish nationality. Later in this Assembly, legislative proposals will be made which will allow the citizenship of persons who have committed certain forms of serious gang crime to be taken away. Social democracy cannot support the proposal that has been put forward now, as it cannot be implemented within the framework of our international commitments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408164645	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. There are no brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408164710	Think what we can do if we get a new government. This is how big and expensive advertisements were written all over Denmark before the general election in 2019 • • Think what we can do if we get a new government. And with a big smiling Mette Frederiksen on the adverts, there was almost no limit to what you would like for good things and things. And a lot of Danes did, so they thought about what to do if only Mette Frederiksen was Prime Minister. One of the things that could easily be done was to take Danish citizenship from people who committed either personal or drug crimes. Think how easy it will be if we get a new government. That was the message before the election. Now it's after the election, and I have to give the government that thinking they have done. In fact, they have thought so much that they have completely forgotten to act, because nothing has happened. The proposal, the content of which was clear and clear, was so clear that it could be implemented, as long as we had a new government, there has been no trouble now that the government has settled in the ministerial cars. It is harmful to our people's rule. It is detrimental to the public's confidence in Christiansborg. Frankly, I think the government should be ashamed of itself, and then the rest of us can think about what we can do if we get a new government. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408164908	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is not here. Then it is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mrs Susan Kronborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408164936	Thank you for the floor, President. The Radical Left does not support this motion for a resolution, and there are two points that we would like to make. First of all, in terms of the convention and then in terms of the law on compensation. As far as the conventions are concerned, it is very important for the Radical Left to recall that it has so far been politically thought that it is not possible to deprive citizenship of ordinary crime. Departure can only take place through terrorism, and conventional crime is not a threat to the security of the state. Nor will it be legally possible to equate ordinary crime with terrorism, since the Convention on Civil Liberties lays down exhaustively the situations in which the law of a State may contain rules on the forfeiture of nationality. As is stated in the Convention on Civil Liberties, it is only in the event of a course of action which seriously harms the vital interests of a State, as the Minister has also pointed out. This means that ordinary crime cannot shake the security of the state. However, we have to understand that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration has expressed a intention to make a proposal similar to what we are talking about here today in connection with serious gang crimes. And I would like to point out that this is not the case if, as I say, hooliganism is terrorism, that hooligans are thus regarded as terrorists. So it can be said that this is what is said in the argument put forward here today if you say that serious gang crimes will result in a disqualification of citizenship if it is the case that gang criminals commit terrorism. And there you can see that there is actually a two-tier size here, that is, when you make the construction of the legislation with a two-tier size, it does not in fact mean that it is said that serious gang crime leads to the withdrawal of citizenship. It would actually just be such to understand, said in such a somewhat educational way, that what you are really doing as an exercise is that you might just as well say that hooligans will be deprived of their citizenship if they are terrorists. With regard to the last part, I think it is very important to say that the Radical Left does not support a proposal which means that it is actually the taxpayers who will pay the compensation. It is the case that if the State claims damages in the Court of Human Rights, for example, it is in fact the taxpayers who will pay compensation to those who have been unduly deprived of their nationality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408165337	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408165340	There is a great deal I did not understand in what the rapporteur said. But one thing that I think must be important is that the Radical Left believes that the Convention on Civil Liberties is essential, so that if we do not comply with it, Denmark is not part of the good international company. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408165400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408165401	Yeah. And I would also like to say that I think it is very, very important, when Denmark enters into agreements, that we as a nation comply with the agreements we have entered into.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408165420	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408165420-2	I think this is just so exciting, because the convention in question was adopted in 1997 and only joined by Denmark in 2003. This means that for three years, when the Radical Left was a member of a government, Denmark was not part of the good international society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408165434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408165435	In other words, you can be part of an internationally good company and then at a later stage be part of a convention. And it is so crucial that, once an agreement has been reached, it actually complies with it after the agreement has been concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408165457	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408165516	I quite agree that there are many people in this Chamber who believe that it should be even harder to obtain Danish citizenship than it already is today. I think, of course, that we already have extremely strict and very rigid rules for obtaining citizenship, which does not also mean that we have a large number of people who live and live here, who have permanent and legal residence, but who do not have the full civil rights that we other people have. However, I do not think that anyone in this Chamber would say that it is easy to obtain citizenship in Denmark, given the constraints that have been applied over the past 20 years. You may of course have that position, but then I would urge you to check the rules, because it is actually not very easy to become a Danish citizen. That is why it is also the case that the citizens who acquire citizenship have a very great connection with Denmark. It is such a strong link that it would probably also be contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights if we were to deprive these citizens of their citizenship and then deport them to a country in which they may never have resided. We have seen several examples in the press that attempts have been made to expel persons who have committed repeated crimes and have not been able to do so because their relationship with Denmark is too strong. That is the way it is: we cannot export the problems we have created ourselves. Other easy-to-use solutions do not even have on earth in our society. When a person is a national of this country, we are responsible for him, and that is why we must not deprive people of citizenship and think that the problems have been solved, because what has actually happened is that we are merely trying to send someone to a country that is most likely not to accept him. It is not rare that we have people sitting in exit centres for many years, because the countries in which they have their second citizenship will not accept them. It is a bit like when Denmark refuses to accept its own We refuse to accept them ourselves. Then it seems a little strange that we now have to make all sorts of suggestions about how we can get rid of criminals. If you have first come through the needle's eye and acquired Danish citizenship, you are a Dane, and you cannot just change it like that with a fingertips, although I agree that a majority in here has tried well enough the last few years and most recently with the urgent legislation that you made, where you can now deprive foreign fighters of citizenship administratively, almost just by the Minister snapping your fingers. But it's not gonna work. We are a rule of law and we have a system for dealing with offences. If you are suspected of having committed a crime, you can be investigated by the police, and you can be tried by a judge, and if you are found guilty, you get a conviction and a subsequent sentence. That is how it should be in a state governed by the rule of law; that is how it should be in a state governed by the rule of law; and that is also what the constitution says, namely that everyone is equal before the law. One of our fundamental values in society is that we should be treated equally, regardless of political beliefs, sexual orientation, social status and religious affiliation, and that, of course, should also be the case: everyone is equal before the law. That is why it should also be the case that if you are convicted in the courts, you will be punished, and once it has been endured, you will be a citizen on an equal footing with the rest of us again. Then we may have initiatives to resocialize and to decriminalize, but basically it should be the case that if you have a conviction and served it, you have equal rights again. If you commit serious or perilous crime or drug crime, it is already the case that you are being punished seriously. This is one of the most severe penalties we punish in Denmark, but I do not think that we can impose a supplementary penalty which would allow people to be deprived of their citizenship. That is why the Enhedslisten cannot, surprisingly, support this motion for a resolution. We simply cannot export crime, and I am surprised that these proposals are often put forward here, because they do not really solve the problems of crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408165947	Thank you. There are no brief comments to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Can I have Enhedslisten's rapporteur just prepare for the next rapporteur? Thank you. It's sir. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408170010	Thank you, President. Here we are again. Another promise from the Social Democratic Party, made in 2018, is another promise that today will not be fulfilled, even when the promise is made in full verbatim terms in this Chamber. I think it is nothing less than hypocritical. If you then hear what the Social Democrat rapporteur has for reasons of this, then the reason why you suddenly cannot implement this proposal is that it will be against international commitments. Apparently, no thought had been given to this when this promise was made to the Danes. I really hope that there are many Danes who sit and follow this and realise how completely reckless it is, that is, with the broad range of proposals from the Social Democratic Party, from the withdrawal of citizenship by personal crime to the introduction of a 37-hour working week, or tomorrow a reform of the Schengen system. These are great promises that have been made to the Danes, but the Social Democrats have suddenly just said that when these things come to the Assembly, we do not intend to vote for them. I understand that there are many people out there who are disappointed. I also understand that there are a great many who are disappointed with the government's support parties who, even when it comes to the proposals that the support parties are in favour of, do not dare to go in at all and say no to Mette Frederiksen's government. We support this because we believe that a government should implement the things on which a government has gone to the polls. I wish the government could see it itself, but unfortunately that is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408170139	Thank you. There are some brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408170155	I simply do not understand how there can be parties, politicians and parts of parliament that, strangely enough, continue to put these conventions made in a different time over the safety and security of the Danes. Why is it that people who have come here have some of them been granted Danish citizenship, some have not even received Danish citizenship, but are here still more important than Danes, our children's safety and security? I'll never understand that reasoning. Then you often get thrown in the head, that you don't care about all international cooperation, that you don't care about the fact that there are some basic rules of the game in the world. What kind of nonsense is that? One can easily recognise the necessity of these and at the same time insist that they should but blindly stick one's head in the sand and refuse to look at the reality that one has created with a long-standing failed policy and even refuse to take responsibility for doing something about it. We will never be such a party in New Citizens. We will always put the Danes' security and security above some rubber conventions. Of course, people who do perilous crime and who have been granted citizenship must have it taken away from them again. That is why, of course, we are voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408170341	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance. Sir. Henrik Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408170356	Thank you for the floor. We are, of course, pleased that we are having this discussion, which is being raised by motion for a resolution B 190, and we are doing so for a number of reasons. Firstly, it can be said that it is probably the case that the vast majority of the population want criminal foreigners with dual nationality to be deprived of their Danish nationality and leave the country. Secondly, the Social Democratic Party has put the citizens in view of the fact that if you won the elections, you would change the rules so that foreigners who commit personal crime are expelled. And then we also need a debate on the obstacles to what we used to call the general will actually become something. What is it that prevents this venerable assembly from achieving the general will? It is important for the citizens to have an insight into it, but we also need, I think, a debate on electoral pork, because it is, after all, the Social Democratic electoral pork from 2018 that we are discussing and why it may be dangerous to issue this kind of coverless cheques, coverless promises, to the citizens when they cannot be realised. This is a debate we need, and it is also a debate we have had far along the way, and that is why we support motion for a resolution B 190. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408170552	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we have finished with at least all the rapporteurs other than the rapporteur for the proposers. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408170613	Thank you, President. The great debate of the time has to be said to be the discussion about those traitors who have betrayed their country to go to Syria and fight for a sick ideology that had taken root but which, fortunately, seems to be being defeated. It really puts in a very good light the looseness with which the Folketing has granted citizenships for many years. For if it were not for an irresponsible Parliament that has cast citizenship in grams to the right and to the left, then these people would not have had Danish citizenship, and then we would not have heard all the bullshit false talk about how Denmark should be obliged to help its sons and daughters out in the distant regions. It is therefore good that there seems to be a growing recognition that citizenship is not something to be claimed. That's not something you can say is your right. This is something you earn first of all, because when you get Danish citizenship, you become part of a Danish family and, of course, it is conditional on a number of conditions. A number of external relationships are not allowed to be criminal, one must not live on other people's money, i.e. That one should serve one's own, etc. For what is it really to be Danish? It is very individual, and yet it is common to all of us by feeling that Denmark is one's homeland, that the history and culture and tradition that have developed for more than a thousand years and been lived out on these regions is something that you are a part of, yes, you are Danish. It can easily be done without formally having Danish citizenship. I know plenty of native Germans and Swedes and Norwegians and Icelanders and others who are much more Danish in their hearts than many of them, which the left has given paper on citizenship up through the 1980s and 1990s and 00s. Danishness is first and foremost to feel obliged to the Danish. And if it turns out that the Folketing, which one unfortunately has to say is the case, has made mistakes in granting either the applicant or their subordinates Danish citizenship, then one has a duty, not only legally, not only morally, but a duty towards the entire historical community that Denmark constitutes, to correct the error. That is why we in the Danish People's Party were happy when, as part of its shift, the Social Democratic Party made a proposal that people who commit serious personal or drug-related crimes should lose their citizenship. Of course, the best thing would be to limit the allocation, so that you only gave it to people you really trusted to join your family; that you would expand the circle by saying that you are good enough. You speak our language. You think like we do. You're one of us. You haven't done that. Then, of course, there is a certain character in wanting to correct the error. However, and this is where the social democratic shift becomes more strategy and spin than politics there was something more important. Something stood over the Danish family. There was something more important than that our children can walk safely on the streets than that we have a society where we know that when we face a Dane, we face a Dane: the international conventions. Some say that they were born of the Second World War and that we step out of them, then we step back to what was during and before World War II. But that can't be right. For the convention which apparently prevents the Socialist Minister for Integration from doing what the Socialist Foreign Affairs rapporteur, who happens to be the same person, promised, is a convention that Denmark signed in 2003. I know that Denmark was not a banana republic or anything like it in 2001 or 2002. So what on earth do we have to lose by stepping out of a convention which prevents us from realising the perfectly reasonable thing, namely that people who have been admitted into the family but subsequently turn out to be violent and drug criminals, obviously to be kicked out as quickly as they unfortunately came in? It doesn't make any sense. The worst thing is that the Social Democrats, here too, in this odyssey, where we are now making the third stop, turn out to be parties over country, party over people. I think there is something deeper, especially when we are talking about Danishism that binds us together than politics. Politics divides and creates disagreement and discussion, and it has very good in itself. Democracy, after all, is the least poor form of government. But there is something deeper than democracy and the political and consensus about the institutions that our society is built around that unite us, namely a feeling of belonging here, to walk in the footsteps that Hans Tausen stepped, as Grundtvig stepped, as Saxo and the White family entered the legacy that we carry on. But by putting conventions written by some people, whose names no one here will even be able to recognize, if they saw them, over the people's right to continue the tradition, one betrays the very thing we in the Folketing are set to uphold, namely Denmark not as a welfare society or a democracy or as a function, but as a homeland. And this betrayal enters the Social Democratic Party with this programme, in which the electorate is pretended to want to show consideration for the safety and security of the Danes, the consideration for Denmark as the first birthright of the Danes, the consideration for Denmark as the country where we are a family, and where we allow ourselves to kick them out of the family, which should never have been in, under another consideration, namely the international conventions. And you do it in a way where we go in some footnotes to see it. It's unmanageable. Because that means that in an election campaign you have given the Danes the impression that you want one, but still if we turn over on page 39 you have found an alibi that you won't anyway. Now then, this is the third stop at our odyssé out in the promises of the Prime Minister and the Minister for We have to move on, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408171358	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408171416	The debate is open. And the first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408171435	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you for the motion for a resolution. The proposers want the government to put forward a bill to evaluate all state and municipal integration projects during the current parliamentary year. I would like to say straight away that the government cannot support the specific motion for a resolution. But I think I can follow some of the ideas behind the proposal far along the way, so let me say a little about it. The authors state that integration is, in their view, about taking the Danish values and standards into account. I agree with that. Successful integration does not happen by learning to ride a bicycle in the streets or by learning to sew, as the proposers mention. It is crucial for integration that as a refugee, immigrant or descendant in Denmark, you identify with Danish society and the values that fill something in this country and that you actively contribute to society when you live here. This is also true in the labour market, in the education system, in society and in society. And that is something one should decide for from the moment one arrives as a foreigner in Denmark. Integration into a new country obviously takes time. It takes time to learn the Danish language. It takes time to learn how to understand the rules and values of Danish society. And for some, it may also take some time to get a foothold on the Danish labour market. It is a process that society, the state, must support, and that is why we also have the broad integration effort that is anchored in the municipalities. And the integration effort in the municipalities has precisely a targeted focus on ensuring that new arrivals enter the Danish labour market as soon as possible and become acquainted with the Danish values and the Danish language. Integration is best done in my view by the individual making the decisive decision to take responsibility for his or her own integration into Denmark. And in my view, the support for integration is best provided through the leading Danish social institutions such as Denmark. The workplace, the school, the association life • the places in the Danish society where our values live. I therefore fully agree with the authors of the motion that integration is not a special exercise that takes place in large and small integration projects. At the same time, however, I would like to say that in my dialogue with the municipalities, and this is so across the mayor's color, party color, I experience a great commitment to the integration effort and a great willingness to find new ways, among other things. to get newcomers moving rapidly on the labour market. Some municipalities offer tailor-made integration initiatives for specific target groups or with a focus on specific issues. Of course, the municipalities are quite free to initiate action on the basis of an assessment of local needs, and I do not intend to oblige the municipalities to evaluate the projects in a certain way, but I would like to call for the overall follow-up of the projects that are being implemented. It must be in everyone's interest to get the desired results out of the tax dollars you use. I can also inform you that later in the spring it will be in fact if not as long as the overall mapping of the integration efforts of the municipalities is presented, which the government agreed with the National Association of Municipalities in 2019. As far as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration is concerned, we today support few, but important, integration actors, who make targeted efforts and contribute to solutions to specific integration challenges. The Committee of Organisations has a fixed appropriation in the Finance Act. Here we support Friends Shows Road, which is headed by the Danish Red Cross and Danish Refugee Aid, and RED Safehouse, which is a so-called safehouse for young people fleeing honor-related conflicts and here we follow up through performance contracts, which must include measurable success criteria. In addition, under the previous wage-pooling agreements, which include most of the parties of the Folketing, including the party of the proposers, some major integration efforts have been agreed in recent years in cooperation with the municipalities. This concerns, among other things: on additional grants to recruit integration and employment ambassadors in a number of municipalities to strengthen the dissemination of newly arrived foreigners for jobs and internships in companies. I can also highlight the efforts of women in employment, where the Danish Agency for International Recruitment and Integration, in cooperation with a number of municipalities, spends extra resources on getting groups of immigrant women into jobs, because precisely in relation to that group we are experiencing special challenges. Having said that, it is not with the individual integration projects that we solve the major challenges of integration. In the past, there was a tradition of allocating funds to an endless series of temporary projects both in the field of integration and in other areas. Fortunately, we agreed, it was not the right way to develop and improve our welfare societies. And I am also one of those who do not mourn that we are now moving away from pools and projects towards some more structural changes in integration efforts. If we look for a moment and look at the overall state of integration efforts, we can see that, fortunately, things are moving forward. More people actually get to work and more people get an education, but it's still going too slowly. I cannot be satisfied myself when almost half of all children of non-western origin in vulnerable residential areas continue to grow up with parents who are not in work. So we still have a fairly massive integration debt that we pay off. We therefore want to change the logic of the integration effort and the way in which we meet refugees who have been resident in Denmark, so that we meet people in a new way when they arrive in the municipalities. The Danish welfare society is based on such a right and duty ethics, according to which everyone contributes to society as far as possible, before one can enjoy the rights that come with a welfare society. And that social contract must be more reflected in the demands we make on refugees. If you do not have a job, you have to have a daily life that is equivalent to going to work. This is important in relation to the social contract that we have with each other. The children must experience that their mother and father must go out the door every day, and Mom and Dad must come home in the afternoon and tell about their experiences in a company. That, in my view, is the key to successful integration. If you then cannot find a job, the government wants the municipality to offer a 37-hour effort in future, where you are paid for the effort you make and where you are obliged to contribute 37 hours a week as a starting point if you want to have access to full service. It is something quite different from an integration effort based on pools and projects. The proposers are making an important point today. We need to be interested in what works, and I can promise you that I and the government will do the same. However, I do not believe that the right way forward is to impose specific evaluation requirements on smaller municipal integration projects. We need to focus our energies properly, and we do best to look at what I would call the broad core of integration, namely the main social institutions. Moreover, as the rate pool is being phased out, there are fewer and fewer state integration projects rooted in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, and I am quite happy about that myself. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408172137	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one comes from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408172140	I have to admit, I don't understand the government's opposition here. Now we've moved away from our odyssey. The agenda of the Folketing is such that what we are discussing now is a purely DF proposal. I am not trying in this way to raise the government for something the Minister should have said in the past or something like that, but I simply do not understand, knowing in the minister's area that the failed immigration from non-western countries costs Danish society over 30 billion. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which is a very good one, and I would like to thank him for his excellent report. Is that not a very healthy principle, especially in an area costing 30 billion? kr. A year?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408172230	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408172231	It is being followed up on whether the state integration projects, typically financed by old rate pools, work and whether we achieve the objectives we have. Then we have the housing social agreements, in which there are also a number of integration projects, and there has also been much better agreement - and it is also broad agreements in the Danish Parliament that this must also be followed up. Then there is the huge lump: what is actually going on with integration projects in the municipalities. The financial agreement in 2019 has agreed with the municipalities that it should be unveiled and that cover will be published shortly. And based on that, I think we could have a much more qualified discussion. But then there is the more principle, because we really believe that the Folketing should impose on Danish municipalities that certain projects should be evaluated, or we do not trust that municipal autonomy, the municipal council itself, takes responsibility for what they think should be evaluated and how their projects should be combined. There I am probably, perhaps also because I am from a party with deep municipal political roots, a little sceptical about having to run Danish municipalities in detail too much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408172335	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408172336	After all, there are some parties, both here in the Folketing and in the city councils, who bear one, it must be said, quite a responsibility for the morass that has been brought to Denmark in relation to immigration. For them, it cannot necessarily always be equally helpful to have light shed on the fact that they then throw millions at the badly spent millions, so it might perhaps be very reasonable for us here in Parliament to say that we simply want it. Take a municipality like Copenhagen, where immigrants have a lot of voting rights, also because of that crazy idea that they should be allowed to vote after 5 years' stay in Denmark, and they can of course vote all sorts, both left-wing and other immigrants, into the town hall, and they will never have an interest in this. But we do, it is we who must be the stop-block, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408172417	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408172418	I myself live in a municipality with about 25,000 inhabitants on the Copenhagen West Region. We have our small local newspaper Albertslund Posten, and when budgetary conciliation is concluded, it actually says quite clearly what the money is spent on, and the people who read the newspaper know the institutions that are mentioned, and people can relate to it. We have four primary schools. It's real local democracy for me. I would like the local politicians, for whom the citizens of Albertslund, where I live, have voted, to be able to decide in the municipal council how they intend to organise their municipality. I am in favour of the Folketing less governing those decisions and leaving it to the municipalities to decide for themselves how they intend to organise it, and I hope that if someone does not manage the citizens' money properly, they will be told on the next municipal election day.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408172504	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408172506	We think this proposal is very good, because it is not about closing any projects. It is about evaluating them and making sure that the money is spent properly. We Conservatives sometimes see some projects where we think that it's a lot of money you spend on something that we can't quite figure out what is. Let me give you an example, which certainly surprises me, namely the Sisters Association against Violence and Control. I now have a note from the Finance Committee which the government gives several million, so that they among other things. can seek out and train women from vulnerable residential areas in democratic education, sexuality, equality, etc. I do not quite understand what the millions are actually going to do. I'm not saying it's not a good thing. I just don't understand. Can the Minister help me out here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408172550	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408172552	The specific allocation is about exactly what the rapporteur said, namely that women in vulnerable residential areas who have themselves been subjected to social control are an association which, among other things, is: have roots in Vollsmose and train other women to refrain from social control, and they insist on supporting those people who want to become part of Danish society. It is true that, in addition to the last financial law which the government entered into with parties to the left in the Parliamentary Chamber, money has been set aside for exactly the organisation that I myself think is doing a good job, mainly on Funen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408172635	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408172636	I'm glad to hear that. I hope we can hear more about that. That is precisely why I think such projects should be evaluated, but the Minister will not do so. Now we saw, too, not so long ago, that from the time of the Blue Government a study had been started to investigate the way I remember it in certain immigrant environments and what could be done. It was suddenly recommended that Koran education is a good thing when it comes to integration, and that reeducation trips are not so bad either. Everyone, including the Minister, was deeply outraged. When we then see projects that I do not understand and when we see studies that are completely biased, why would the Minister not agree to an evaluation of these projects?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408172717	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408172718	Firstly, I would like to say that, of course, we are following the results of the appropriations implemented through the State. There's no money just being thrown out with your head under your arm. What my criticism of this proposal is about is that we have to commit the municipalities to it. I mean, I am in favour of increased municipal autonomy, not less municipal autonomy. Secondly, I also agree that a huge integration industry has grown up and that it is not all equally productive. In fact, I believe that some of this is quite counterproductive in terms of making integration work. That is why I am also pleased that there are now significantly fewer state integration projects than there used to be, and I hope we can go further in that direction. I also hope that the result that we will be able to present shortly on municipal integration projects will also give rise to a discussion which might lead some of the candidates for the municipal councils to take a look at that cover and say that we might also have to turn down municipal integration projects. I think the voters should decide that in the ballot boxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408172813	There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteurs, and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, Mr President. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408172831	Thank you for that, President. With this resolution, the Danish People's Party proposes that all municipal and state integration projects should be evaluated. Most people already are. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that too many tax dollars have been spent on integration projects over time. The integration project problems must be solved by addressing the root of the nettle: tight control of immigration, mixed residential areas, mixed schools and day-to-day services, a duty to be on the labour market for immigrants and refugees, and people who no longer need protection in Denmark must go home. On the political side, the number of temporary integration projects has already been reduced, and I think it is wise to take the initiative in the municipalities too, such as this. The City of Copenhagen, which in 2019 decided to scrap so-called soft integration projects and instead prioritise projects focusing on education, employment and negative social control. We do not want to impose new financial burdens on taxpayers by making a new evaluation requirement, but we will focus on what works, i.e. strict control of immigration, continued action against parallel societies and our proposal to introduce a 37-hour working week. That is why the Social Democrats do not support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408172948	Thank you. Then it's Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408172950	It is completely incomprehensible to me how one can argue against compulsory evaluation of integration projects by saying that it will cost taxpayers dearly. Well, it's the completely converted world, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. So the point is that if there is something that costs taxpayers dearly, it is immigration from non-western countries and many of the municipalities, among others. is led by Social Democrats, initiates all sorts of integration projects. Would it not be very sensible to know whether they are actually contributing to integration or contributing to the bill, which the Danes, on the basis of which they pick up and have to pay? So, why is it so wrong to say to a municipality: if you want to do some project to integrate some foreigners, you must also subsequently check that you have actually achieved the goal so that the next time you want to spend millions of taxpayers' money, yes, you are a little smarter because you have the experience of last time? What on earth is wrong with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408173048	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408173049	Well, I don't think there's anything very wrong about it, but it's already the case that an overview is being made and an evaluation is being made. Well, the government projects are funded through the rate pool, they are evaluated. If we look at the municipal projects, a municipality agreement has been drawn up for 2020, which shows that, and I believe it is this spring, there should be an overview of how the various integration projects that are in the municipalities are progressing. And that's why I think it would be weird to make a new demand when you already have this agreement and we're kind of just waiting for the result to come here during the spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408173125	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408173126	No, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. It is true that, in some agreements, we have asked for evaluations, but there are plenty of areas where we do not get evaluations; that is, what has the effect of spending perhaps 10 million. kr. in a language course or something? So that's it, sir. Rasmus Stoklund mentions, as such, is an argument for extending the evaluation requirement. So again: this is not a teasing proposal if we are to say that the three previous ones were, that is, the odyssey out of a social democratic breach of promise. That's not where we are now, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. This is a real, one hundred percent well-intentioned and sensible proposal. Then Mr. Rasmus Stoklund just re-evaluate his resistance?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408173206	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408173207	First of all, I would like to acknowledge that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt acknowledges that the first proposals we have spent some of today on were teasing proposals aimed at the government. I think that is well described. In addition, however, I believe, firstly, that an evaluation is being carried out and, secondly, that a response is to be given to the source of the money. In other words, it is not free to carry out evaluations, it will probably cost millions of kroner, which large consulting houses will then be able to earn well at, and finally I think we should bear in mind that an evaluation is not always just an evaluation. So, an evaluation is also sometimes an evaluation that delivers roughly what the customer wants; it can at least be worked together, it wouldn't be the first, it was seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408173249	Thank you for that, and there are no further comments to Mr. Rasmus Stoklund. Then it is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408173308	Thank you for that, Mr President, and thank you for that. Morten Messerschmidt and the Danish People's Party for having tabled a both welcome and wise motion for a resolution. The Left fully agrees with the Danish People's Party that too many good tax dollars are being thrown after too many ineffective integration projects. This applies both at municipal and state level. That is why it makes sense to conclude all integration projects with an effective evaluation so that we can find out what really works and what does not. The fact is that it is neither fair to the Danes who hand in a large part of their hard-earned money in taxes, nor fair to the refugees and immigrants with an integration need involved in these projects, that the vast majority of the projects seem not really to work. As recently as last year, I came across a recently published report from the Danish Center for Social Science Research and Analysis. The report examined the impact of company practice in the context of increasing refugee and family ties. The report stated that although the 17 municipalities studied had increased the use of company practices to the target group, as it is so well known, there could be no positive effects on the target group's employment, self-support or training. To put it mildly, it is deeply, deeply regrettable, let alone disconcerting, when one considers subsequently how much time and resources must have been spent on the project. Conversely, this report from the National Research and Analysis Centre on Welfare illustrates the sense that we are evaluating the integration efforts we have made, both here and at local level. On the basis of the report, it can at least be concluded that company practice is not the most appropriate way of getting refugees and families together to work. In other words, evaluation helps to make us wiser and thus helps to make our policy better, whatever it is about integration, social policy or something else. However, although evaluation is generally good, it is worth pointing out that evaluation is many things. What the Danish People's Party means by evaluation is impact evaluation, and it is also the type of evaluation that the Left wants to make more use of in the public sector. However, such evaluations are expensive and also cumbersome and slow to carry out. In this context, I note that the Danish People's Party has not identified any sources of funding in the proposal. It should not therefore prevent the Left from voting in favour of the proposal, but at the same time the Left would like to point out that, before a relatively large proposal like this is adopted, it is reasonable that some calculations should be made about what it is going to cost. Finally, I would like to mention that it would be wise if evaluation were, as a general rule, conceived and planned from the start, i.e.. At the same time as a new integration project is being launched. In this way, those who are subsequently assigned to carry out the evaluation of this or that project, namely do not spend a lot of time finding out and wondering how to organise the survey. So, to sum up: thank you for a good proposal, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. The Left supports this, but on behalf of my party, I would like to recommend that the financial consequences of this proposal be mapped out, and I would urge that public opinion generally be better at thinking in terms of evaluation and that evaluation be thought out from the start. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408173640	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408173642	I very much welcome the fact that the Left will vote in favour of this proposal. I would just like to say, in relation to the cost, that it is intended that future integration projects should be a mandatory condition for those who realise the project that it must be evaluated. So if you apply for 5 million... kr. So the idea is not really that it should lead to a higher cost, but rather that we should think about the cost from the beginning together with the other costs, and then when we have some data that has been evaluated, it will do so that we can cut off a lot of these integration projects, because you can see that there is no effect. So, actually, this is a saving proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408173730	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408173731	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. I also agree with you on the long track, and now you qualify it very well, and I can also support that entirely on behalf of the Left. For the whole idea of this is precisely that it should be cheaper at least in the long run, and I think it is so fine that it is already thought into in the pool money, such as. these associations receive, that is to say, that the evaluation is intended for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408173753	Thank you. There are no more comments, and you need to clean up. The next speaker is Mrs Halime Oguz, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408173826	Thank you, President, and also thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for allowing us to discuss this problem of integration projects. The task of integration requires will, and this requires that we do not let ourselves be blinded by our political position. Finally, it calls for the jungle of integration projects to be lured into the jungle, so that progressive people are put in charge of the task. The new dancers should not pursue home-country standards, as some have done so far, and this has even been supported by some of these well-meaning integration consultants. In this context, it has in some cases meant that in the actual implementation of these many projects, money has been poured into a black hole and allowed the integration industry to exist for the sake of the integration industry itself. But it has not upset the commitment to integration that was in mind, one millimetre. That is why it is also gratifying that politically we have reduced the number of temporary integration projects that were previously so widespread. I must not hide the fact that the best integration for me is a stay at one of our high schools and a worship of the cultural institutions in Denmark at all. This is where you meet the Danish cultural spirit, and this is where you achieve a cultural education. In my view, the kind of challenge and encouragement to free thinking that you get in these places is the best protection against anti-citizenship. The greatest barrier to integration has so far been the lack of knowledge and yes, the lack of interest in the culture of the host country. I can understand the background to the proposal, and indeed I also find the proposal to evaluate the integration projects rather sympathetic, but we just think in the SF that instead of spending taxpayers' money on the consulting houses that will evaluate these integration projects and which will most likely end up with djøffing and paperwork, we should call for better management of integration projects. The money will be spent much better on it. This means that, in cooperation between KL and the municipalities, we must have a national strategy for the projects, so that we have a greater transparency and a better overview of the various interventions. As it is now, the municipalities themselves are very much in charge of what projects they want to get going, and this creates greater opaqueness. Moreover, it can often end up in small projects with no impact. Against this background, I would like to inform you that, unfortunately, the SF cannot support the proposal as it stands, although we find many of the thoughts behind it sympathetic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408174142	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408174144	Thank you for at least partial support. I don't understand where that idea that this would benefit the djøf segment or the consulting houses etc. has arisen. Because there is nothing in the proposal that it should be such a consultancy company that will carry out the evaluation. I mean, the idea is more like that if you, for example, are... in a municipality says that you are now spending a sum of money on an employment project, where you typically have an idea that it should benefit employment with some number of people who then have to go from passive support to self-support, when after perhaps 3 years you have finished the project, then you can see what that has led to. You don't have to have a consultant over there. So the idea is that those who undertake the task should also accept the evaluation obligation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408174239	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408174241	I am not so sure that it will still be able to produce the result that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is calling for this centralization of these assignments. Because then I think we will have to impose a much larger task on the municipalities. Instead, I would like to propose the model presented here by the SF, namely that perhaps we should try to think about how we can create a national action plan that will create greater transparency. I think that is actually the way forward instead of imposing some of these tasks on each municipality. I simply do not think that is the way forward. I would like to and I would also like to see more evaluation of these projects, but I am not as sure as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, that this will not lead to much more paperwork and consulting work. I'm not sure we'll get around that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408174336	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408174337	Could Mrs Halime Oguz not agree with me that, if we are not obliged today to evaluate our integration processes and projects, then it is not exactly something that creates an incentive to work for success as well? I think I have to admit that there is an entire industry of people out there who just sit and run through these projects for the state and the municipalities' money, knowing that no one is coming and checking if they also achieve their goals. I do not know whether a national action plan will solve this, but I do hope that Mrs Halime Oguz will take a positive view of this in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408174415	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408174417	I very much look forward to further discussing this in a committee procedure, and I fully agree with Morten Messerschmidt that we have spent a great deal of money on projects and that we have had employees who have not lived up to their expectations at all. I myself have been a part of it and also have a completely different insight into the various things that are going on. So I look forward to a committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408174449	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Kristian Hegaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408174518	Thank you very much, President. The resolution here is about introducing a mandatory evaluation of municipal and state integration projects, and that sounds fascinating if not because the projects are mostly already evaluated. I myself know this as a local government elected for over 111⁄2 years now, and I have not seen in my time government integration projects that have not been evaluated, and it makes sense that the vast majority of them are evaluated. Because learning from the good projects makes it possible to make those who have succeeded permanent and, of course, discard the less successful. Because it does not make sense here either to go back to a phony, and if we adopted this resolution, we should also define when something has been evaluated and lay down rules for it, and I do not think it would make much sense to spend time on that when most people are already evaluated anyway. So what do many of these evaluations show? Yes, the evaluations show, among other things, that housing social plans in particular are extremely effective. A recent report from VIVE shows that Aisha from the exposed residential area has brought in Anna from Strandvejen in the possibilities of becoming a doctor. Because it is the case that 57 per cent. of those living in residential areas have a higher level of education than their parents, whereas for the rest of the population it is 62 per cent. In other words, even though most football is played in general residential areas, they are Denmark champions in pattern wrestling. Although we in the Radical Left are not going to support this motion for a resolution, I nevertheless welcome the tones of the proposal, namely that this must mean that the Danish People's Party is going to support successful integration projects such as, among other things, Denmark's People's Party in the future. The ones I outlined just now. Because if you want to evaluate, but you have taken a position in advance, you just want to evaluate for the sake of bureaucracy, and I cannot imagine that anyone is going to put it into practice. That is why I welcome the fact that the comments on the motion for a resolution state that it is also in order to continue the integration projects that actually work, and we know that this is something such as leisure jobs and housing social plans that there are positive evaluations for working. So I am very much looking forward to the Danish People's Party supporting the integration projects, and on that basis we are grateful to the Radical Left for the debate and recognition that successful integration projects must, of course, continue to make a difference to integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408174830	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408174832	Thank you, President. The rapporteur's speech immediately led me to go to the VIVE website to see what it might be for some reports he is thinking about. On my screen here comes a project from last year, last summer. In terms of integration, it says, and now I quote: 'VIVE's evaluation of the project shows that the municipalities increased their use of business practices, but also that the project did not have positive effects on the employment, self-support or training of the target group. Well, that's not exactly the picture, is it, sir? Kristian Hegaard conjures you up, at least not when you read this, but leave that disagreement. Is Mr. Kristian Hegaard agrees that it is generally a healthy tool when we spend taxpayers' money on the integration of foreigners, that we also know if there is an effect and that it should therefore be a legal requirement? I fully agree that some local authorities are already doing so today, but there are also quite a lot of people as we heard from Mr Beazley. Rasmus Stoklund, who doesn't. That is a pity, because it may be that the money could have been spent on something better and more sensible instead of being wasted because you do not know what really happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408174936	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408174937	But Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's speech here clearly shows that evaluation is already taking place. In relation to what was read out, it is true that you may not need to use company practices to the same extent, or you may need to change the way you use them if it has had a less good evaluation. So this simply underlines that the projects are being evaluated and that is positive, because it allows for opt-outs and opt-outs and, of course, for those who have a positive effect. In relation to whether it should be a legal requirement to evaluate and then to decide how to evaluate in certain ways, I would say that it is less effective, because it would completely undermine municipal autonomy, that they have less degrees of freedom. They may well be able to determine which projects they are going to prepare, but exactly how they are going to be evaluated, they cannot decide. There I think we must have confidence that our locally elected people around here can decide that, and when we decide in this regard on government projects, we can then decide how to evaluate them. It's a good division of labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408175048	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408175049	I'll tell you what. I don't understand any of what Mr. Kristian Hegaard says. Well, sir. Kristian Hegaard thinks it is a good idea to evaluate the state as well as the local government; notes that not everywhere today, which inevitably leads to a waste of good tax dollars; but then presumably chooses to vote against a proposal to introduce forced evaluation. That doesn't make any sense. We should not sit and decide how to evaluate, but we should set out to do some kind of employment project and to want 10%. It is not too much to demand that, after the project has been completed, one should also have a legal requirement to see if there is 10 per cent. • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment; • more in employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408175128	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408175130	If, hypothetically, a demand was made for everything to be evaluated when evaluations are still taking place, then we would have to agree to define when something has been evaluated, because otherwise we cannot establish whether it is There I think we have better things to spend our time on than establishing that kind of thing, and that we should also have confidence in the municipalities, trust those who carry out the projects, that those who need money will of course only spend them on projects that are successful, and not those which are less successful than others.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408175203	Thank you. And we'll go to Mrs. Rosa Lund when we've cleaned up a little bit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408175227	Thank you. If you only read this motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party in its short form, it seems that the proposal actually has a basis in a very sensible way for an evaluation of integration projects so that you can find out what works and what does not work. No one can mind that part in itself, I think. After all, it is a waste of social resources to put money into initiatives that do not serve any purpose and that we do not know whether they work or not. However, when I read the comments on the proposal, there are many elements in it that I very much disagree with. On the one hand, there is a glorification of a monoculture, which the Danish People's Party believes that we as Danes all belong to, and on the other hand there is a very negative view of people from North Africa and the Middle East, which I certainly do not agree with. And when the proposers say that it is not primarily the public's job to make integration projects, I can also be concerned about what the Danish People's Party is really thinking of resulting in these evaluations. Is it to use the results that will most likely show that some things work, but that others do not, to completely abolish integration efforts? Is that what you're trying to do? At least in the Enhedslisten we cannot support that. All studies also show that if you come from another country to Denmark such as Denmark. refugee, is the best way to integrate into society, to learn the language and get an education or a job. We as a society have a great interest in this, so why should it not be a public task to ensure that this happens quickly and smoothly? Especially when we talk about people who have fled war and other atrocities, there can be very good reasons why you cannot find your own head and tail in the system and in the offers there are. One can be illiterate, one can be traumatized or seriously ill, and then it is obvious that as a society we go in and give a helping hand to ensure that these people get the best possible life where they become part of the society in which we live. There is no doubt that people from other countries have a great interest in becoming part of our labour market, but unfortunately more studies show that they are faced with many barriers that they are not responsible for, but which limit their ability to enter the labour market. And I actually believe that it makes sense to evaluate the efforts that are being made, because there are obviously some of them that do not work, but there are also some of them that work. The integration effort is an important step in the right direction and a great help for many people. That is also why we see in the vulnerable residential areas that there are some very positive effects of the integration efforts that have been made. The residents of these areas have a very high level of social mobility, and the number of young people receiving education is constantly growing and at a very high level compared to the rest of society. However, evaluating the efforts made is a good idea as a starting point, as we always need to use our resources in the most sensible way and get the best results for the money. And that is why we are actually in complete agreement with the Danish People's Party. We are also of the clear conviction that this is already happening. Each time money is dropped by the Ministry of Social Affairs, for example, there is an accompanying evaluation. That is why we have some doubts as to whether, in this motion for a resolution, we are actually going to decide on something that we disagree with a little, that is to say, with regard to the comments, and decide on what is already happening, and it really just seems like duplication of effort. That is why the Enhedslisten can support the intentions of the proposal, because it is good to evaluate, but we cannot support the resolution itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408175609	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408175611	Yeah, I just don't understand. Because if you, as a party, and indeed as a person, bear as much responsibility for the accidents that have occurred in Denmark in the field of foreigners during the last few years, yes, as far as Mrs Rosa Lund is concerned, it is not as long as for her party at least a considerable amount of years, one can only have an interest in trying to get things right. And today there are multiple integration projects both municipal and state, among others. through the so-called NGOs, which are, after all, giving money that is not being evaluated and where you do not know whether the money actually delivers what you expect. I think sir... Marcus Knuth mentioned one of the examples earlier. And if you really want to have this fight with what Mrs Rosa Lund calls the monoculture, to succeed in transforming Denmark into an immigrant country; that is what it is all about; would it not be very good to know which integration projects give the effect you have imagined and which do not?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408175711	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408175713	I always think it's so funny when sir. Morten Messerschmidt and others from the Danish People's Party blame Enhedslisten and specially signed, but also just Enhedslisten for what Mr. Morten Messerschmidt calls the accidents in the field of integration. Well, that's sir. Morten Messerschmidt and Dansk Folkeparti, who have had the most influence on foreign policy over the last 20 years. If it was Enhedslisten who had had that influence, then I can promise you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt said that integration had succeeded. But it is simply not us who have had neither the influence nor the mandates in this area for the last 20 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408175746	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408175750	I can say with certainty that the foreign policy pursued in Denmark over the last 20 years is closer to the Enhedslisten's dream than to the Danish People's Party's dream. But that's not what I'm asking, Mrs. Rosa Lund. What I am asking is this: if you believe and dream that what Mrs Rosa Lund calls the Danish monoculture must be eliminated, because Denmark must be a multicultural • that must be what you have to understand from what Mrs Rosa Lund says • why is she not interested in the many projects put in the lake to destroy monoculture, then also ensure that they have an effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408175824	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408175825	Firstly, we are not interested in deleting everything called Danish culture. What we are interested in is ensuring that there is proper integration; that people learn the language; that people participate actively in society. And, as I also said in my speech, we think it is a good idea to evaluate. I am just of the clear conviction that this is actually happening in advance. I mean, we have a lot of results from, for example. the overall plans in the socially disadvantaged housing areas, and we also have several evaluations of various other projects, for example. the leisure academy called FRAK, located on Nørrebro, which is an integration project that has also been positively evaluated. So it's not really at all because I'm against evaluations. I'm just worried that we're going to duplicate this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408175909	Thank you. There are no more comments. The next one is sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408175930	Thank you, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for presenting this very sensible motion for a resolution. This is an issue that I have been looking at myself recently, so thank you to Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt to do the work for me and get the proposal in the Chamber before I myself made it. Because I fear that a great many Danish tax dollars will be wasted out there on projects that do not live up to what one might expect. Some people even say that there's an entire industry that's running its own cake with these projects. I do not know if that is true, but I can at least see now that I asked the Minister before • that sometimes there are projects out there where I sit and think, what exactly is this? Now I mentioned, for example. The sisters association against violence and control. The Minister gave a very politically correct answer to what they are actually doing, and that is something about democratic education, sexuality and equality and all the right words. But I can, among other things. understand that the Social Democracy of Odense Municipality has come into the minority of the City Council, who wants an impartial lawyer's examination of this association. I'm not saying they're doing anything wrong. I'm not saying they're not gonna live up to what they're supposed to do, but at least I notice that a majority of the Odense City Council wants this association investigated. And that is exactly what I think is the problem, so that there are so many out there, both us politicians here and in the city halls and people out in Danish society who sometimes sit and look at these in this case huge millions of dollars going to associations where you think: what are they really doing? I can only say that I myself did the bitter experience a few years ago criticising the association called the Exit Circle, which is led by an imam who has defended Sharia. What happened? I ended up in the courthouse. It was not a pleasant experience. Fortunately, the National Court rejected the accusations made against me, a colleague from the Danish People's Party and a colleague from the Conservative People's Party, but it only shows that as soon as we start criticizing some of these associations, there will be a violent reaction. So everything else is equal: I do not understand why the Minister cannot support this, which could give us peace of mind, give the many council members peace of mind and give the many Danes peace of mind in order to have more transparency, so that we know what these organizations are doing and so that we can avoid any false rumors in the ground. For the worst would be if there were false rumors out there about organizations, that is, stories that are not right. So I very much hope that the Minister will come up with better ideas. We wholeheartedly support this proposal from the Danish People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408180159	Thank you. There are no comments. The next one is sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408180216	Integration is basically a personal matter. If I chose to go to another country and wanted to settle, I think it would be perfectly appropriate to say that I had an obligation to be able to make a positive contribution to that country. I would never hold back the citizens who are already in that country. And that's what integration efforts are all about. This is about: do you think that this is a personal matter, or do you think that it is a matter for the citizens who are already in the country when new ones arrive? So, it is about the fact that in order for those who come to make a positive contribution, you have to be forced to deliver your money that goes to it. We in New Citizens think this is an incredibly bad solution. That is why we believe that all municipal, state and regional integration projects must stop immediately. The Danes must in no way be forced to hand over their tax dollars, so that politicians can use them on all sorts of strange projects. There's a reason we have the highest tax burden in the world. That's because politicians use the money fatally. This proposal is then about whether we should evaluate all of the integration projects that are in municipalities, regions and the state. But before we go down that road, I would ask you to get a list from the minister of all these integration projects, both state, municipal and regional. And on that list, I would like it to be recorded what these projects cost. We can go back to 2015, where the last government has been sitting, and look forward to now so it is 6 years. So we can see: what have we spent on projects, what have there been, and which of those projects have already been evaluated? Then we can then get a gross list in relation to see if 95 per cent. of these projects have been evaluated, or if many of these projects have not been evaluated. In this way we can see whether there is a real problem in relation to the fact that these projects are not being evaluated. When we then have those figures, we can decide whether it is necessary for the remaining ones to be evaluated, but we should not just use tax dollars to evaluate something that we should abolish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408180447	Thank you. There are no comments. There are no more rapporteurs, not even for the Liberal Alliance. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408180509	Thank you, President. Above all, I would like to thank the bourgeois parties which support the evaluation of integration projects, whether national or local. The daily press has been published among other things. In Berlingske Tidende, which has done a great deal of work to uncover the many especially municipal integration projects, was able to read about a whole wildness of various undoubtedly heartfelt initiatives, which no one really knows will produce the desired result. In Copenhagen, for a quarter of a million kroner, a bicycle workshop has been set up to teach immigrants how to put the chain on their bikes, but no one knows whether they really have subsequently improved at it and more mobile, such in the street picture. The whole bike course has sprung up around the country, no doubt in a good understanding that it is part of Danish self-understanding and Danish culture to be able to ride a bike. But is this something that really leads to these people becoming part of Denmark, of the Danish culture? Nobody knows that. Diversity festivals are held for public crowns in the larger cities, but no one really knows whether this is what makes diversity greater or better or what it is like. You spend money on facebook postings to prevent social control, but no one knows if it really has an effect. At Nørrebro, 700,000 kroner have been spent. on a project called "Send More" and a company called "From a cook wife to a kitchen worker." And that is what we would like to see clarified. After all, we do not fully acknowledge with our good will, but this despite the fact that people have entered Denmark who should not have been here and that we have an interest in either getting them out or getting them integrated. And there it would be more sensible to know whether the many projects you put in the lake really produce the desired result, whether you want to break up with the Danish monoculture as we heard it, or whether you want to defend the Danish culture and heritage and the tradition that is now ours, as we in the Danish People's Party want to do. Then one must have an interest in knowing whether the projects put into the sea actually give the desired effect. Therefore, I must say that it was with wonder that I heard the left-wing speakers perhaps with the exception of Mrs Halime Oguz, whom I actually thought here, like so many other times, had a pragmatic, proper and sensible approach to this. And I will allow myself to reach out for that. Here you know what you will get after a parliamentary election, if you support the Blue Denmark, because then you will have a sense in the integration projects, namely an obligation to evaluate. And if Mrs Halime Oguz can be the one who, together with her party, causes this to be possible even before a parliamentary election, then it will not be directly unwelcome. So thank you for that. Then some people have said, "Well, don't this just make it a lot more expensive?" No, it will not, of course, be the time when, when you present your accounts on how to implement the integration projects, you have to incorporate an ex-post evaluation. Then it will not be something that in itself increases integration policy. The question is also whether it can be much more expensive for the Danes, who are already drawn with an annual bill of more than 30 billion. kr. But just on the medium term, this will be a saving project, because at some point we will find out whether these many bicycle courses, diversity festivals and spice companies and what do I know who has the trunk down in the municipal project boxes here, will have an effect. And, of course, if they do not, the recipients will no longer have to have the money. Then you can either give them back to the citizens or you can spend them on welfare, or you can spend them on projects that actually have an effect. The fact that you can be against it simply surpasses my comprehension. But there is so much that does with this government. So thank you to Mrs Halime Oguz for being a small, shining glimpse in the otherwise dark red sky. And thank you to the blue parties that also supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408181009	Thank you. There are no comments. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408181025	The debate is open. Here you go to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408181117	First of all, I would like to thank the authors of this motion for a resolution, B 143. In the motion for a resolution, the government is required to ask the Attorney General to make a clear assessment of whether it was expropriation, according to section 73 of the Constitution, or not, when the government unhomed removed the mink industry in Denmark and passed Bill No. L 77, i.e. the draft law on the killing and temporary ban of mink. Before addressing the motion for a resolution itself, I would like to remind you of the very serious context in which the issue is concerned. On 3 November last year, the government decided that all minks in Denmark should be defeated. The decision was made on the basis of public health considerations and on the basis of a risk assessment by the Statens Serum Institut. Here it was concluded that a continued mink breeding during an ongoing covid-19 epidemic poses a significant risk to public health, including the possibility of preventing covid-19 with vaccines. It was a conclusion that the Danish Health Authority also supported. Now to the motion for a resolution itself. The government does not believe that there is a need for an investigation and will therefore call for the resolution to be rejected. There are at least two good reasons for this. Firstly, the Ministry of Justice has carried out an assessment of the law in connection with the drafting of the bill. This is also true in relation to the constitution and to expropriation. It is quite common practice that the Ministry of Justice considers that the temporary ban on mink teams will not in general constitute an expropriation-like proposal. However, it cannot be excluded that the scheme could constitute expropriative intervention against specific growers. This is expressly the result of the legislative notes to Bill No. L 77. The draft law was therefore an expropriation bill within the meaning of the Constitution, and it is also dealt with in accordance with the rules of such proposals. Secondly, there is no need for an investigation by the Attorney General, since the compensation agreement is precisely about expropriation. In fact, the agreement on compensation for mink growers and secondary industries affected by covid-19 from 25 January 2020 ensures that mink growers have a legal position which means that those affected are placed as in the case of expropriation and that each mink grower can go to the courts if he wants the question of expropriation and the question of compensation tested. It is thus assessed that the agreed compensation scheme will ensure that the persons concerned have a legal position that is at least equal to cases of expropriation. That's why I find it hard to see the value of the DA's making an assessment. Finally, I would like to mention that I am aware that over the years there have been many political discussions and discussions about the state's use of the Chamber Attorney. I do not want to raise that discussion here, and it does not belong in my area of ministers either. However, I would like to say that I am concerned that we in the Ministry of Food are using the DA for the right tasks. Finally, I should just like to add one thing: if the proposers really want a study of the process of killing all minks, it is not the Attorney-General, but the committee of inquiry set up by the Folketing, who will be responsible for this task. With these comments and with this in mind, the Government rejects the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408181509	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408181512	I must admit that it is a sad day for the rule of law in Denmark when you hear the Minister speaking here. It is not, of course, a question of whether a compensation scheme has been set up that is as good or perhaps better than the compensation that the mink farmers would have received. On the contrary, it might be said that this is perhaps the government's way of covering up the flagrant violation of law that has been committed. No, this is about recognising It is a completely different provision in the Constitution, and these are quite different legal guarantees, not only for the expropriated, but also for our MPs, and that is why we want to have an investigation into this. And that is why I must say that, of course, it is not surprising to me that the government rejects it. I mean, the blackout policy that has been pursued in many other contexts is a good way of escaping. But I just want to say that I really hope
ParlaMint-DK_20210408181615	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408181624	We have been in a very serious health crisis with covid-19 in Denmark. We are told that it is very risky to continue to have mink jobs in Denmark. Against this background, the government is making a decision to knock down these minks. Then you have been in the situation that you have seen that there was a lack of a legal basis in relation to part of the mink that was struck down. This has been corrected, and then the Ministry of Justice's assessment of this whole situation has been made, and the Ministry of Justice considers that the temporary ban on mink teams will not in general constitute expropriation, so that it does not in general, but the Ministry of Justice also says, Mr. Mr Messerschmidt said that it could not be ruled out that the scheme would constitute expropriative intervention against specific growers. And that is why a broad majority of the Folketing has made a full and complete replacement for mink growers, where one is treated as if for the individual affected mink growers the legal position is quite the same as if it were an expropriation. However, since the Ministry of Justice has stressed that it cannot be said in general terms that it corresponds to expropriation, there is that distinction, but for the individual the compensation is the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408181747	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408181808	I would like to thank the President for having the opportunity to speak here on behalf of the Chair of the House in relation to motion for a resolution No. B 143. However, I should like to begin by addressing the points made in the motion for a resolution, because several of my statements during the debate are highlighted in connection with L 77, among others. because it was supposed to be unclear whether the mink growers were to receive full and total compensation for their losses. That is why I would like to make it quite clear at the outset and highlight some of what I said when I stood here in the Chair, in relation to L 77. A great deal has been asked about the matter since then, but at that time I said that they, i.e. mink farmers, must be properly compensated, they must have proper compensation, they must have some opportunities to move on well. That is what I thought at the time, I believe now, and I have made that point several times on this matter. That is why I am also pleased that a good and fair solution has been found which will give the mink farmers and follow-up industries peace and certainty for the future. It is an agreement that gives them full and complete compensation, an agreement on compensation for minkkeepers and followers in Denmark, which was crucially anchored here in the Folketing. The Social Democracy, the Left, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Liberal Alliance are behind this agreement. With that made clear, I shall now proceed with the resolution itself. Today we have to take a position on the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution to require the government to ask the Attorney General to make a clear assessment of whether or not it was expropriation under Article 73 of the Constitution, when the government unhomed removed the mink industry in Denmark and passed Bill No. L 77, i.e. the bill, which is also called the draft law on the killing and temporary prohibition of the holding of mink. In the Social Democratic Party we cannot support the proposal from the Danish People's Party. One of the key points of our position is that the agreement reached on compensation for mink growers and followers takes a position on expropriation. The agreement provides total compensation for the mink and mink industries, whether or not there is legal expropriation under Article 73 of the Constitution, and which the Minister has also mentioned here in the past. So the mink growers are at least equal to cases of expropriation. And if you want the question of expropriation or replacement measurement tested, the individual mink can go to the courts. Therefore, it does not make sense in our optics to ask the Attorney General to make an assessment. In those words, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408182133	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Yes, it is, but I just couldn't see anything. Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408182208	When I hear sir... Anders Kronborg speaks, it is as if he believes that expropriation is only about compensation. So that is not the case. If sir... Anders Kronborg reads section 73 of the Constitution, which I assume he has done, all the time that he has signed that he will abide by it, he will also find that there are some procedural guarantees. So it's not just that it's absolutely crucial that you find out whether this procedure was expropriative or not. Because it is about respect for the Constitution, and it is about respect for the subsequent legal situation. It will be the case that in subsequent cases this will suddenly be an element, what is called the general practice of Article 73 of the Constitution. And that's why I have to say that if not, sir. Anders Kronborg agrees that the DA should answer whether there was or was not an expropriation, who on earth should?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408182308	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408182309	First of all, I fully agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Morten Messerschmidt in that the Constitution must be observed. I myself have signed the Constitution, I have read the Constitution myself, and therefore I have also carefully followed what the Ministry of Justice answers when they are asked about this question. And, of course, they do not believe that there is a clear assessment in relation to this, and that is why it has been important for us in relation to the political agreement that was made, that mink farmers should be treated properly, that they should be treated with respect, and that they should have a proper compensation equivalent to expropriation-like conditions so that they could get on well. Well, then I'd like to speak to Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt emphasizes that here in the Danish Parliament we have set up a Granskningskommissionen, which will look at this whole issue, also to clarify the whole process, and I naturally follow this work with interest and very, very closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408182402	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408182403	I am quite aware that we are going to set up a Commission of Iran, but this is just about something else. It is about the fact that you cannot interfere with people's property without following the rules that you have signed on to observe. Therefore, it makes good sense to ask the state's own lawyer, that is, the law firm, which the government uses in all sorts of other contexts. I would almost say that I have been soft-hearted when I wrote it in the proposal to make an assessment of which mink growers have been subjected to expropriation and which have not, and how the compensation is commensurate with it. When you read Mr. Anders Kronborg's own comments from the first reading of L 77, I would like to say that this only underlines the need for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408182451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408182452	Well, thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. In fact, in relation to L 77, I think we had a good and constructive debate in this Parliament. And I also think that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt must acknowledge that there are lawyers in the Danish Ministry of Justice who, in their assessment, do not believe that a temporary ban on mink in general would constitute expropriation-like conditions. We have made an agreement that takes account of the fact that mink cattle are being treated properly, and I have not heard that a party like the Left, the Liberal Alliance, like Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, otherwise usually roses, has asked a lot of questions about this. They have accepted the agreement as it stands here, and completely supported the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408182540	Thank you. Then it's mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408182544	Thank you. I understand, sir. Anders Kronborg, that the intention is to put the former mink growers as if it were an expropriation. What, then, is the reason why we do not make this clear once and for all, because everything else just comes up after play? There are some things in relation to expropriation, among others. in relation to taxes and other things that are interesting. And that is why I can imagine that we are going to find ourselves in a situation where the 113 million. kr., one has set aside for discretionary costs in relation to expropriation, not rows, if it is the case that the majority of minkkeepers have to go to court and have determined whether this is expropriation or not expropriation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408182632	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408182633	I think that has now been made quite clear in the agreement, but Mr. Per Larsen and I can of course read the agreement differently. I also take note of the fact that this is an agreement which the Left has praised. It is an agreement that the Liberal Alliance has praised and they have endorsed the agreement. It is an agreement which is widely endorsed by the Folketing. In fact, I think it is a very important safety valve that if people want to shorten it in relation to their legal situation, they can go to the courts. Then we all know that work is currently being done incredibly hard to ensure both proper and fair treatment of mink growers in relation to this very special effort with 75 employees who are looking through this. On Tuesday, we discussed the bill on it, and we are dealing with it now in committee. So I don't recognize that picture, sir. Per Larsen's drawing, so this shouldn't be completely clear. It is a perfectly clear and clear intention that mink growers should receive a proper and fair compensation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408182732	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408182734	Thank you. I do not think the rapporteur answers my question. Would it not be appropriate, even from an economic point of view, to determine once and for all whether it is an expropriation according to the provisions of the Constitution or whether it is not an expropriation according to the provisions of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408182752	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408182754	In order to reply to that very precisely and briefly within the 30 seconds available to me, I would say that it has been completely drilled into the Ministry of Justice. So the answer is given to Mr. Per Larsen already once from the Royal Danish Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408182812	Thank you. Then there are no further comments to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408182818	Before we move on to the next rapporteur, I should like to say that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt (DF) has informed me that he wishes to withdraw the following proposals: Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a total ban on demersal fishing with beam trawls in the Skagerrak and the North Sea. B 153). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the proposal has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408182907	Here you go, sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408182924	Thank you for that, thank you for the floor. I can say straight away that we in the Left can support this resolution that is before us. The Mink case is a huge scandal and, of course, it needs to be thoroughly investigated. The damage has been done, the disaster has occurred: the government has removed the mink industry in Denmark, and that is the government's responsibility. Our democracy and trust in the people's rule and the authorities therefore deserve responsibility. We owe this to the many in the industry who lost their life's work overnight, as it were, a life's work, which for many had been built up over generations and also with enormous pride, and there was every reason to be proud of that. As you know, the killing of all Danish minks took place without a legal basis, and the professional basis was also very doubtful, one can almost say non-existent. Denmark was the only country where all minks were killed, and none of the international organisations to which Denmark normally listens recommended a total and hasty winding-up of the entire mink industry. For us in the Left, it is crucial that we get to the bottom of the process, which led to the completion of one of Denmark's major export industries. Frankly, it seemed as if the government had no idea how far-reaching a decision they took headlong without listening to either the Folketing or experts who could have the chance as usual to challenge the decision and the foundations. It was simply shameful to witness. The mink growers have been subjected to a huge attack and are now former mink growers. I am glad that there is now a committee of inquiry on the way to looking at the legal basis, and I also expect that there will be a group of experts, what it will now be called, which will look at the professional basis or the lack thereof, one might say. It has been, and is for us in the Left, absolutely central to ensuring full and complete compensation for the losses caused by the government. We have also got this into the compensation agreement, which has also been debated here in this case, and that agreement is now in the process of being transposed into law and regulations. For us in the Left, it has been crucial that there is compensation. The way the government closed down the entire industry, the industry, is for us and must be liken to expropriation. The government has done a lot of damage and removed the entire mink business. The government has to pay the bill instead of trying to run away from it. The government said in headlines on the outside that it would pay full compensation, but why have you been foot-timing? you could ask. A clear message from the Left is that the former minks and related industries affected must now receive full and complete compensation, including compensation for the removal of their profession by the government. It's only fair. The government has had no law, no economy, no politics in this case. I am glad that we in the Left had an agreement on full and full compensation to compensate for the losses caused by the government, no more or less. In the motion for a resolution, B 143, which we are debating today, it is proposed that the Attorney-General should make a clear assessment of whether it was expropriation, according to section 73 of the Constitution, or not, when the government unhomed removed the mink industry in Denmark and adopted Bill No. L 77. Now that we have the compensation agreement in place, we can say that we are well on the way, but the legislative proposal, L 206, which is intended to implement the compensation agreement, is not finally in place yet. I guess so, though. In the Left, we are of the opinion that, as I have already said, full and complete compensation must be granted which corresponds to the losses caused by the government. That's what the Constitution says. The case must be examined to the full. That is why the Left also supports the fact that the Attorney-General can look into the matter and give his opinion. Now the lawyer is mentioned, but there are of course also sometimes where you have to assume a lawyer, some who want it to be put out to tender. But if there is now a majority in favour of it, we will have to discuss it. But we are giving support to the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408183415	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408183417	I myself am so pleased that the Left supports this resolution, even if an agreement has been reached on the issue of compensation. Is Mr. Mr Bonnesen does not agree with me that a future government on future matters will of course look back on how to deal with past expropriations? So if you can in this way get through what is very likely an expropriation, without really recognizing it and thus also rob the minority in the Folketing of the privileges you have of exposing the expropriation, then it is really a question of putting a part of the constitution completely out of effect. Is Mr. Erling Bonnesen doesn't agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408183500	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408183501	This is precisely not the case here, because it concerns citizens, whom we all agree to have worked and dragged for generations to build a really proud profession, and then you come and get rid of it. There you can say in all sorts of other cases whether it is a small piece of land or other things where you come and remove it that then it is expropriation, and then it is full compensation that equals it. In my view, there must be no lingering in the waltz in this area, and that is why I am also trying to be quite clear here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408183531	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408183533	This is a very good success, and Mr. Erling Bonnesen certainly thank you for that. After all, we do not know how the government's support parties vote. The other day we heard both the SF and the Radicals say that they also considered the intervention to be expropriative. We don't know how they're voting on this proposal. If it turns out that they are voting 'no', can we count on the Left, even when we have a bourgeois majority after the next parliamentary elections, still standing firm that this should be clarified to the bottom?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408183558	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408183600	Well, I can vouch for what I'm saying now. And then we always know with politics that it is difficult to give guarantees, but I don't usually run away from my words.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408183612	Thank you. Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408183615	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Left. It is, in fact, history that leads me to take the floor when the rapporteur of the Left tries to draw a picture of the fact that the government in this matter was foot-to-mouth in relation to giving a proper and full compensation to mink growers. I think this is one of the cases I have been involved in dealing with in the Danish Parliament where the most questions have been asked and many answers have also been returned in connection with the committee work because it was a difficult and complex issue. But now to take me to my question: we have had a great many debates on this matter, both in the committee work and also here in the Parliamentary Chamber. Has the rapporteur of the Left ever heard me as the Social Democrat rapporteur on this matter say anything other than that the mink must, of course, have full and fair compensation and compensation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408183711	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408183712	Well, I'm not accusing the Socialist rapporteur of impure trotting, but then let's get it fixed. Let's say it's expropriation all the way through, and then we're done with this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408183722	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. There is no SF, so the next one is Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Sir. Erling Bonnesen just needs to blow off. Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408183815	Thank you. I think that everyone in this House shares the desire to have a clear decision as to whether this was expropriation, and therefore the approach in this proposal also puzzles me a tiny bit. Because there is only one body that can judge and determine whether this procedure was expropriation, and it is not the Attorney-General; it is the courts. It's the only way we can know if it was expropriation, that is, if some of these minkers actually bring their case to court. Then there will be a case law, and then you can use it in future judgments and cases. With an assessment by the Attorney General, there is no greater legal effect than an assessment by the Ministry of Justice. So I just do not think that this motion for a resolution and an assessment by the Chamber Attorney really contribute to the purpose of the proposers' business today, namely to clarify whether it was expropriation. For that clarity we can only get from the courts. In relation to the compensation, it can be said that because there has been the ambiguity which the Ministry of Justice itself admits, in other words, by saying that it is not in general their assessment that in the winding-up of the mink industry or the adoption of L 77 there was an expropriation, but they cannot deny that it was there in individual cases. And that is why we have also chosen a replacement model, which provides full and complete compensation for everyone so that the doubt will benefit all mink growers in Denmark. Everyone is treated as if it were expropriation, knowing that there is a grey area and that it was probably expropriation in some cases, but it is likely that there was not in other cases. Against this background, we cannot support the motion for a resolution. But, of course, we will follow with as much excitement as the authors of the motion, I think, any cases that will be brought before the courts and the decision that will then fall in those cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408184019	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408184020	Now I noted with satisfaction that the rapporteur's party colleague Mr. Andreas Steenberg the other day agreed with you that this was an expropriative intervention so far, so well. This isn't necessarily about compensation. In fact, as things stand, the replacement element is probably the least, because even mink growers who may not be subject to an expropriation have, of course, received compensation, as if it had been an expropriation, and they are thus perhaps better off than they would otherwise if they brought the case before the courts. What is interesting in particular is how case law will develop. Mrs Zenia Stampe is quite right in saying that the right thing to do under Paragraph 73 (1). 3 is that the individual who feels exposed to expropriation brings the case but why should he do so when he has received compensation which he had been granted in the event of expropriation? What is the incentive? What would the claim be, Mrs. Zenia Stampe?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408184122	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408184123	Well, that's a good question. Why would you do that? And I can also ask the Danish People's Party: why is it so important to have an assessment, which will not be a decision anyway, of whether it was an expropriative intervention? For that decision we can only get from the courts; we cannot get it from the DA. I'm not a lawyer, but it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt, so it should be, sir. Morten Messerschmidt is also the first to know that it is not a legal adviser, as the Attorney General is, who can decide this kind of case. This requires that it be brought before the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408184155	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408184156	But they cannot, like Parliament, bring the matter before the courts. Only the ex-propriated can do it. On the other hand, we have a different interest in this matter from the expropriated ones, because the expropriates have received the compensation that they must have; that must be taken into account. Like Parliament, we have an interest in knowing whether it was an expropriation because it is us 2. And if we do not clarify whether this was an expropriative intervention, then future governments will be able to do the same and thus put the Constitution aside. I agree that the DA is not a court of law, but it is certainly much better to achieve the objective that I believe we both want than to do nothing at all. So what does Mrs Zenia Stampe intend to do instead of supporting this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408184244	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408184245	But I don't see how we should learn more about that question by getting a statement from a private law firm that we use in the state... we use other law firms now, too, but from the law firm that we use to the highest degree, namely the Attorney General. I do not see that it should bring us closer to a real decision as to whether it was expropriation, because we have received an assessment from the Ministry of Justice. One can say that it might be that they came up with the same assessment but what if they made a different assessment; where would we stand then? Would you say that the Attorney General was automatically a more reliable source than the Justice Department? Unfortunately, I do not have the full basis for assessing this, but it would still take us somewhere where it is very uncertain. That is why we must hope that some people will bring it before the courts. If they do not, then it is because the minkkeepers themselves have not had a need for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408184338	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408184405	On top of the mink case, or in the middle of it, I can well understand that there may be parties that consider what should be further investigated. And I note that there is a Granskningskommission who is looking at it regarding the legal basis, that a lawyer's investigation has been commissioned looking at the mink excavations, and there is also a lawyer's investigation to look at this action card in connection with the killing of the minks. And if we in Enhedslisten were to give priority to further investigations, it was a lawyer's survey of the shift that happened in strategy, where they started in North Jutland slaughtering sick mink, and then they stopped slaughtering sick mink. There were so many consequences that strategy was changed. And it is always easy to be hindsight, but I am surprised that your strategy was changed there. And if we should give priority to spending further effort on studies, then there is what we in the Enhedslisten are working on could be the next study. It is against this background that we do not support this proposal. I think Mrs Zenia Stampe had some interesting comments a moment ago about the fact that it is actually the courts who can decide whether or not it is an expropriation. And this is then a suggestion that the Danish Parliament instructs the government to ask the Attorney General to make a clear I do not know if you can order a unclear assessment. However, I have noted that when you have cases on which you disagree, it is often that you can find two lawyers who disagree on a case that is actually quite common. So I do not really know what is involved, that it has to be clear because it might be that it was not a very clear assessment that was given to the Folketing, and then we are actually on the same level. Now I am not a lawyer myself, so I just have to say that the compensation agreement that has been made is based on a very large compensation, as if it were expropriation. And it is then a replacement agreement that we in the Enhedslisten have not joined because we thought it was too generous.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408184633	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408184634	I must admit that I am very surprised to hear Enhedslisten's rapporteur because I thought Enhedslisten was a party that cared that rules should be followed and that the constitutional rights of the Danish Parliament should be protected. This isn't gonna happen. You're all gonna get the expropriation compensation, which means that none of them have an interest in bringing a case to the courts because they've got what they're gonna have. Those who have an interest here, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen is us. It is we who are set to look after the voters' confidence, because the Constitution contains a number of guarantees and provisions which must be activated when the Folketing chooses to expropriate, and that is what we must have clarified here, because there will be no legal proceedings. That is why I would like to say that if the objection on the part of the Enhedslisten is that it should not be the Attorney-General and that we have used an adverb which should not have been used, then I think we can get a little closer together. Who does Mr. Soren Egge Rasmussen has to make this assessment? Or does the Enhedslisten think it doesn't matter if the government is obscene to the Constitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408184759	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408184800	No, it's not whistling, it doesn't matter. I'm just reflecting on this mink case, and I'm just judging where it is that we think more should be investigated, and that's about the strategy change, because it was all part of the spread of the infection, so you ended up with a huge replacement case. If you had taken care of it in North Jutland; that you had really limited it geographically; that we had come to the conclusion that the mink farmers could slaughter their mink in the autumn; then it may well be that you had subsequently come to the conclusion that because of different types of corona you could not keep mink in Denmark, but then we would have ended up in a place where it was not this wild replacement, which the majority of the Danish Parliament has agreed to give to the mink growers. So I actually think that's the most important thing for us. It is not that we are not in favour of rules being followed. That's just our priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408184858	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408184859	This isn't about compensation, because the compensation has been paid. This is not about the change of strategy, because we are dealing with it in the subcommittee of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure at the moment. This is about establishing whether it was an expropriation, by which the government has violated the provisions of the Constitution, which gives the parliamentary minority the privileges to postpone the entry into force of laws. That's what this is about, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. I have fought multiple battles with members of the Enhedslisten to defend the Constitution in relation to the European Union. It is completely incomprehensible to me that the Enhedslisten is not now on the side of the Constitution, and does not even answer the question I am asking: if not the Attorney-General, who will?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408184942	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408184943	I'm not gonna be able to tell you if we can find any lawyers better than the DA. They will then come up with some assessment which will then have to be a clear assessment or a unclear assessment. Apparently there must be no nuances in it, and I think it would be easy to arrive at that. So it is not our wish that we should vote in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal. And then I understand that this debate isn't gonna be that long, because sir. Morten Messerschmidt will not be involved in discussing his own proposals in the Parliamentary Chamber, but will give priority to getting on TV instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408185018	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. And then it's sir. Per Larsen of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408185054	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Danish People's Party and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt to make this proposal. We think it is quite appropriate to establish whether it is expropriation or not, and that is why we support the proposal. This is an important issue, and it is clear that, from an economic point of view, it will of course be clearly cheapest for the state, and hence taxpayers, to make it clear once and for all that this is the way it is. And I'm wondering why it hasn't been said quite factually from the beginning, that is to say that this is to be treated completely as expropriation cases. That would have been appropriate. Then I have to say to the Minister that I think it is now a little bit tiring when the Minister is gradually running around with an ancient paper, chanting around the foundations for putting the minks to death. After all, we know that no one advised the government on a professional basis that all minks in Denmark should be killed. We heard, quite soon after the decision was taken, that none of those who should otherwise be consulted thought there was any basis for killing all the minks. The Danish Medicines Agency quickly refused that there should be any danger to the vaccines. WHO had the same attitude, the State Serum Institute also subsequently came to the conclusion. They certainly did not give any advice that the minks should be killed. As recently as Monday of the week in which the decision was made, Kåre Mølbak, I am aware of, off the record, and negotiated with the mink industry whether to continue unchanged with mink breeding in Denmark without killing any additional animals. Or if you had to drop down, that's the only way to keep the breeding animals. So when it comes to advice or lack of advice, about the killing of every mink, you just have to say that there was no advice on it. At any rate, I have not seen anyone who has advised on this, and I am therefore somewhat annoyed that the Minister keeps pointing out that this was a necessity, because it was not. It was a political decision, but it was not necessary. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408185331	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408185333	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Conservative rapporteur for looking at it and seeing a somewhat larger perspective than what we hear from the left-wing rapporteurs, who can talk about nothing but compensation. What this is about is the constitution of all of us, which we have committed each other to respect. And that is why I just want to hear, as I asked the rapporteur of the Left, whether we can count on it when, after a parliamentary election, there is a blue majority... that we still agree that this should be examined, so that in other cases we are forward-looking exactly what the case law is for, how we understand §73.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408185408	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408185409	Well, that's for sure. Well, this is a huge, massive case for 19 billion. kr. or so, and it is absolutely essential to know whether it is expropriation or not? And, of course, we will hold on to that forever.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408185431	No more comments. Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408185449	Thank you. We also support the resolution. There is no doubt that it is an expropriation when mink farmers are asked to intervene illegally and destroyed their income base. In other words, what else would be expropriation if not the illegal closure of an entire profession? That is why it is also quite a dishonest trick when the government has deliberately tried to avoid any admission of expropriation. If you don't give up your property when you kill your animals, when is it expropriation? The government does this partly to manage the story, but also to ensure that as many mink growers as possible feel compelled to choose the government's replacement package rather than to support their claims directly under the Constitution. For mink growers who do not want the government's replacement packages must first prove that it is expropriation in the specific case, since the government will not admit it. And this is an extremely difficult task for a mink who is already in a situation of deep uncertainty about the future, even if it is obvious that it must be an expropriation. That is why it would be good to make this clear once and for all. And, as I said, new citizens support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408185610	Thank you. There are no comments. There is no one from the Liberal Alliance, so that is why it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408185624	Thank you, President. The right to property is inviolable. No one may be ordered to dispose of his property except where the public good so requires. This can only be done according to law and against total compensation. Once a draft law on the expropriation of property has been adopted, one third of the members of the Folketing may, within three days of the final adoption of the proposal, require it to be nominated for royal confirmation only after the new elections to the Folketing have taken place and the proposal has again been adopted by the then-concluded Parliament. Any question of the legality of the expropriation act and the amount of compensation may be brought before the courts. The review of the amount of compensation may be entrusted by law to courts set up for that purpose. Quote out. That is what section 73 of the Constitution says. All of us have given each other a written handshake that we will honor and abide by it. So it's not just about expropriation and compensation. It is about procedural rules, some legal guarantees that are directly laid down in the Constitution; some conditions for expropriating, that is, when the public interest is in favour of it. But also some guarantees that a minority in the Folketing can postpone an expropriation. The compensation is now dealt with by the agreement made by the government with a large majority in the Folketing. At best, it might be said that it serves some as if they had been expropriated without really being so. However, the main problem with that agreement is that it deprives all mink growers of the incentive to bring the action which they have the power to bring under Paragraph 73 of the Constitution in order to determine whether an intervention was expropriative. No one has any incentive to do so, because they have already received the maximum compensation they would receive if they won such a case. So why spend the money on it? On the other hand, we in the Folketing, all 179 of us, should have an interest in enforcing and paying tribute to the public good, the concern for minority protection and the other things in the provision that I just read out. That is why today's proposal is not about clarifying whether someone should be paid more in compensation than they have received. It is about ensuring that we have a government that complies with the Constitution and that we have a Parliament that checks whether the government complies with the Constitution. That is why it must be said that this is a sad day for the people's regime. Because have we heard anything from the red parties other than talk about the expropriation compensation? No, because it has become the fucking Bolshey used for us, who are a minority in the Folketing, but the considerable more than the qualified minority mentioned in section 73, to be able to check whether the government has complied with section 73 of the Constitution. Then it is true that a committee of inquiry has been set up. I myself am on the preparatory committee and do not recall that the issue of expropriation is part of the mandate. I do not know whether to understand the red parties in such a way that it is a wish on their part. Because at least we would very much like to expand. This is about something quite fundamental: whether we still stand by the promise we made each other when we became elections to the Folketing, that we across party differences, across differences, across mistakes that might be made, so that all of us are at the goal of the constitution on which everything in here is based. That's what this is about. And when I hear the Radical Left who has apparently not found the opportunity to stay throughout the debate say that the courts have to decide, then I ask you back: Well who then? Can we have a qualified commandment? When I hear Enhedslisten question whether the DA is even the right person to assess this, I say it may well be. But then who? We don't get answers. Is it really for that that one has come: that one is so willing to defend a government that one has completely forgotten to be Parliament; that one has completely forgotten that what we are doing today will sound like an echo for posterity; that the practice we are setting today will also be able to follow? 'Cause it's a bad day for the people. I hope, for many reasons, that after a parliamentary election, we will have a new majority, which will courageously and sincerely guard the constitution and the fundamental principles on which the Danish democracy as a whole rests. And it's not just lawyers and technicalities whether this procedure against minkkeepers is carried out according to section 3 or section 73 of the Constitution, because it's about guarding the guarantees we have sworn to each other. Where are we, if that's the way to get through it and make sure it goes, then it goes? Yes, there was a minority guarantee that two fifths of the Folketing would be able to postpone a law, but we have a majority in the Folketing which prevents the minority from examining whether their rights have been set aside. Where are we? Is it really a practice that the Minister wants to expose him to the day he is not a minister himself? I simply refuse to believe that. That is why I should like to call myself naive, but nevertheless I would urge all 179 Members to look deeply into themselves and to consider whether this matter does not deserve clarification for our sake and for the sake of democracy, but perhaps first and foremost for the sake of the subsequent governments. It is not a question of establishing an investigation whether or not the government had a legal basis, because we know with great probability that it was not available there. Then there may be apologetic circumstances, and the Minister spent a lot of time on them in his speech. I'm not going to deny that at all. That's what the investigating commission has to find out. But this way of ignoring the minority guarantees that apply to the Folketing is simply not democratically decent. That is why I would strongly urge the government and its support parties to be concerned and, before we get to the vote on this, to report on how we can clarify whether it was full or partial expropriation. For we come to a vote where the majority of the buttons that shine will be red, like the majority party membership, I do indeed write on a boring page in the history book. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408190423	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment I should like to make. Anders Kronborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408190426	Thank you very much, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. I am glad that we can have this debate in the Chamber, because it is here in the Chamber that we can really make a difference and discuss politics with each other. That is why I would also like to say that I am sorry that I am unable to listen to the debate on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Seligman on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Morten Messerschmidt has withdrawn, namely the debate on beam trawls, but I can see from the social media that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt will take part in a debate on DR at this time. 8:00, which I must assume Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's priority is higher than standing here in the Kingdom Hall and discussing important political issues. But fortunately we have time to finish this proposal and have a very good and objective debate on it. I'm gonna get a little confused when mr. Morten Messerschmidt is doing this for the reason that Dansk Folkeparti was not part of this broad agreement for compensation to the minkkeepers. It was no more than two days ago that we were dealing with L 206, and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt was himself present and the Danish People's Party rapporteur was present. And as I heard the argument from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, it was precisely that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party thought that this arrangement and this agreement, which has been made with a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, had become too expensive. Will Mr. Morten Messerschmidt tells me if that's correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20210408190537	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408190538	Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. I mean, I'm running quite fine with what I just said. A compensation has been paid to all former mink growers who are on the same level as being expropriated. If the rapporteur heard his own minister speak earlier, he would have heard that he said that it is not possible to say with certainty whether all mink farmers have been expropriated, but that some are enough. That is to say, there are some who are not. If those who have not been expropriated are to be made financially in accordance with the rules, which would be the general rule, i.e. according to section 3 of the Constitution, they should not have expropriation compensation. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Anders Kronborg is familiar with practice in the field of expropriation, namely that the level is higher than the general compensation. That is why it is absolutely right that if everyone is put forward as if they were expropriated, even those who are not expropriated, the cost will be higher.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408190626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408190628	What we are also discussing here is whether the citizens, the minkkeepers, receive fair and fair compensation. And I must also say that both the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party who is on the platform here today confirm that it is actually a very good agreement that has been made in relation to the mink growers, and also a fair agreement that has been made widely in the Folketing. I guess I can tell you that even though we disagree with the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408190656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408190658	I must say that it is shocking that Mr. Anders Kronborg has not yet understood what we are talking about. We're not talking about replacement measurement. We are talking about the principles arising from Article 73 (3) of the Constitution. Art. 1 Art. 2 3, as Mr. Anders Kronborg has signed a commitment. Among other things, one can only expropriate if the public good speaks for it. It is about the fact that there is a minority in the Folketing who can postpone an expropriation law until after the holding of a parliamentary election. All these things, sir. Anders Kronborg, by his vote, deprived the minority in the Folketing of the opportunity to exercise his duties because he does not want to clarify whether the intervention he supports was expropriative or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408190732	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. I understand that the last item on the agenda has been deleted because it has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-DK_20210408190747	Therefore, there is no more to be done in this meeting The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 9 April 2021, at 2 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
