ParlaMint-DK_20210317130005	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Leif Lahn Jensen (S), Karsten Lauritzen (V), Peter Skaarup (DF), Karsten Hønge (SF), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Peder Hvelplund (EL), Mai Mercado (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Ole Birk Olesen (LA), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 282 (Proposal for a resolution on maintaining the cancer treatment of children unchanged in the current four locations in Denmark (Citizen's motion) and motion for a resolution No. B 283 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on rapid and proper assistance to families in the event of infant death (citizen proposal)). Liselott Blix (DF) and Karina Adsbøl (DF): Request no. F 53 (How will the Minister ensure that more citizens are informed about the possibility of being a living donor in the fields of kidney, liver and bone marrow/steam cells, and will the Minister ensure that an action plan is drawn up in the three areas?). Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF) and Peter Skaarup (DF): Request no. F 54 (Will the Minister explain whether the Government intends to challenge the international conventions that we see Britain and many other European countries do so, so that Denmark can maintain its political self-determination, particularly in the field of foreigners?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Committee on Finance has delivered: Report on the extension of the parliamentary working group on world objectives. 13). The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317130120	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 23 March 2021, and at the same time I should also point out that the time available is available for an urgent request, a maximum of 2 hours. In this way, it will be necessary to change how many brief remarks there may be, depending on the desire for debate. But of course I will guide along the way, given the time. First of all, to justify the urgent question, Mr President, I should like to give the floor to the rapporteur of the questions put to us. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317130210	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for Health for taking part here today. We hope that it will be a fruitful dialogue on vaccine cooperation and production, which will provide a clearer direction for the forward-looking strategy in relation to vaccine supply. Because it should not be a secret that we were actually rather concerned about the government's willfulness in the form of the Prime Minister's decision to go to Israel without first involving the parties of the Folketing. We have therefore called the Prime Minister for an urgent question here today for two reasons. Firstly, it should not be a secret that we are critical of the government's vaccine cooperation with Israel and Austria. We have therefore called the question to get an explanation of the government's plan for cooperation and an explanation of the background for precisely choosing the collaborators, the concrete plans and terms of the cooperation, including the lack of involvement of the Folketing and the government's support parties. Such cooperation is not only about foreign policy, but about public health and our security of supply, i.e. what strategies and efforts Denmark is pursuing in order to obtain vaccines and increase the production of vital vaccines. Secondly, we believe that we need to do much more to boost vaccine production at home and in the Nordic countries, rather than making ourselves dependent on unclear cooperation with Israel and probably a single pharmaceutical company. Here, too, there is a need to have an open conversation about the government's vaccine strategy to ensure that the Danish Parliament is involved in the work to produce more vaccines. We welcome the fact that vaccine production has come so high on the government's agenda and is looking forward to a good and concrete dialogue here today. But I must also say that we find it unacceptable that the government has been running solo races on something of such importance to Danish health care. We have therefore asked the following questions in the urgent question: Will the government explain the challenges and risks associated with concluding an agreement on vaccine production with Israel and Austria and explaining the possibilities of establishing a Danish or Nordic public vaccine production in order to strengthen national health preparedness?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317130425	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund to justify the request. While the platform is being prepared, I can welcome the Prime Minister calmly to give the answer. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317130453	Thank you. Thank you for the floor and, above all, thank you to the authors for putting an extremely important item on the agenda. I am thinking of what we as a population should really mean, that the male health rapporteurs have had shorter and shorter hairs under corona, and that the other male members of parliament have had longer and longer hairs. But then, of course, there's sir. Henrik Dahl, who somehow differs a little from the norm in this question too. But it may be that the debate will reveal it. I'm kidding. Vaccine is a very serious issue and, by the way, it is our superweapon against the corona, so it is a very, very important discussion to have today too. A few things to begin with. Firstly, I think it is our task in Denmark to explore all possible ways of ensuring that the Danes in the future have even better access to vaccines than is the case today. I therefore do not think that we should rule out any possibilities in advance, and this in fact applies to the whole vaccine chain • research where it all starts, to production and to the fact that the individual Dane has finally got the vaccine stick, which will mean an incredible amount for the freedom of the Danes and, moreover, also for our ability to return to a normal Denmark. Secondly, unlike the Enhedslisten, I see some very good and exciting prospects in working together, in this case with Israel and Austria. These are, of course, some considerations which I would like to explain here. When I think this cooperation is interesting, it is because it is two countries which, like Denmark, are very, very concerned about increasing production capacity in terms of vaccines. No agreement has been reached on this, but we have the same approach: we need to increase production capacity. That's what this is all about. I can't believe we're in a situation right now when we've had vaccines developed in less than a year. We are well in the process of rolling them out in Denmark. There's some bumps on the road. There's always going to be a vaccine roll-out, but it's going well. What is really our only problem is that there are not enough vaccines. That is why we have a huge responsibility to uncover all the possibilities of obtaining more vaccines and to ensure that the vulnerability and dependence we are experiencing right now when supplies do not come on time, and when we do not have enough vaccines at all, is not a vulnerability and an addiction that continues forever. Because we may well find ourselves in a situation where we not only have to vaccinate, we also need to re-vaccine, and that is why we need more vaccines. That is what I wanted to say at the outset. When I chose to give priority to the journey to Israel and why working with Israel at all on this issue, it is because we have had co-operation with Israel all the way through. We were invited at a very early stage into a group of countries that managed the first wave well, it's called the Smart Covid-19 Management Group. And there we have had the opportunity to exchange different experiences. International cooperation is always good. Several countries are participating in this cooperation, among others. New Zealand and Australia and Norway, but so do Israel and Austria. That's why we've been working together all the way through. What has come of the journey? What we agree on is not just as three countries to deal with the current crisis, but also to use our cooperation to look forward. What does the world need from vaccines, and how do we support it as best we can? That is why we have talked about working together, for example. research, and it is always a good idea to cooperate with other countries when it comes to research that is relevant to several different countries. There are plenty of outstanding issues, including research cooperation, but here too, as I said, I think there is some perspective. At the meeting in Israel we also discussed this issue of production capacity, and all three of them, like other countries, are concerned about how to establish more capacity. Because it is clear that the vaccine producers who are cannot produce enough vaccines. So we simply need to expand capacity. That is also the reason why we in Denmark also look at what can be of opportunities with our own life science industry. We have a great many competences in this area in Denmark, and we would like to take advantage of that. There have been various criticisms of the trip to Israel, including that it should be at the expense of EU cooperation. In any case, I can clearly reject that. In general, when we speak of vaccines, we must not in my view turn it into a question of either or, rather, of a boat-and-a-boat. I actually see it as one of my most important tasks right now as Denmark's prime minister, from I wake up in the morning until I go to bed in the evening, to do everything I can to secure enough vaccines. So I think we owe it to the Danes to pursue all the leads that may be there. It is clear that EU cooperation is really, really important, and that is why I have pressed ahead of several Council meetings for vaccine issues and production capacity issues to be raised on the EU agenda. I believe that the pressure that has been exerted by several countries is starting to bear fruit. Tomorrow I will be visited by the French Commissioner Breton, who is now in charge of the EU vaccine task force. The Commission too is now focusing on how to increase production capacity, and that is really, really good for Europe. The fact that we have a strong EU commitment or, for that matter, a strong Nordic commitment, I do not think we should stop being able to work closely with other countries as well. In conclusion, this brings me to the question of national production plans, which is also being asked. As I said before, I think that we are too vulnerable, and the dependence that is being revealed in this time must be tried to get around, so that we can ensure not only Denmark and not just Europe and not just our neighbourhoods, but the global world community will probably be vaccinations in the coming years as well. Therefore, we have established a partnership with expertise from the life science industry and relevant ministries to get input on how to ensure more production capacity in Denmark. In this context, I can say that there has also been a dialogue with the Novo Nordisk Foundation. Already this week, the Ministry of Business and Industry has met with the professional organisations in the field of life science to get their input on how we strengthen it here, and in addition, the Ministry of Health is in dialogue with the vaccine candidates developed in Denmark. This is done under the auspices of the Statens Serum Institut, partly in a collaboration between Bavarian Nordic and the University of Copenhagen. So here there is also potentially a really exciting potential. Let me say a few words at the end of the day to what has also been a number of problems, namely that the journey to Israel should be an expression of a change of foreign policy vis-à-vis Israel. I have to say that I disagree with the very premise of the criticism as if there were something wrong or unorthodox in working with Israel. We in Denmark have historically had a close and trusting relationship with Israel, of course we do. I think we should have that in the future too. And this is also reflected in the good dialogue on the management of the Corona situation. This is not a change of course, even when we talk about research, on the contrary. Back in 2016, Denmark established an innovation centre in Israel to strengthen bilateral cooperation in the field of research and innovation, a centre that today acts as Denmark's spearhead in Israel's major life science sector. As a matter of fact, cooperation is not that new in this area either. That is why I would just like to conclude by saying that the vaccines are super-weapon. We must ensure that much more vaccines are produced in the future, and that is why we want to cooperate with other countries to ensure that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317131314	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his reply. Now we have a brief comment to make to the rapporteurs, and that is first, Mr President. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317131320	Thank you for that and thank you to the Prime Minister for your reply. After all, there were many elements in the speech that we could address, but I think I will try to concentrate on what is central: access to vaccines. After all, it is good to hear that the Enhedslisten and the government fully agree that it is necessary to obtain more vaccines, and that is both here and now, but also in the longer term in relation to revaccinations, because it is probably going to be necessary, and that is why I just want to hear the Prime Minister about what the priority has been. Already back in March we raised the question for the first time a year ago. We have asked why we should not set aside, for example. 0.5 billion kr. to develop and research in vaccines so that we could get it ready, and if we had done so a year ago, we would have had a potential production today, because the answers we have received from the government have shown that it takes about a year. What has been the priority in relation to this? Why has it not been decided from the outset to say that, in the interests of public health and security of supply, we need to have a public alternative to private production?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317131442	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317131443	There are many questions in the question. Firstly, there are potentially some interesting Danish vaccine candidates who are also publicly supported, and I also hope that there will be broad political support for us to talk about this if it turns out that there is a need for more help or some other form of help, because it is potentially an interesting clue. Secondly, in my view there are also plenty of interesting traces of European cooperation in different ways, and then, of course, there is the slightly more ideological discussion. If we are going to have a definite vaccine production in Denmark, is it best that it is state? Is it better that it's private? Is it best that this is a matter of public-private cooperation? I would like to say that our approach is incredibly pragmatic. There is no one who knows how things are developing with regard to covid-19, but we can look into a future where the world is going to need billions of vaccines and therefore it is important to have production capacity set up. We may well be in a situation where Denmark can be an important contributor because of our life science industry, and then it will be very much the one we are looking at as a government. So it is not ideological, we are going into this issue, but practical and pragmatic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317131559	The next brief remark is to Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317131602	Thank you very much and thank you for your reply. It came around a lot of things, so I should try to relate to the one thing that we in the Danish People's Party find very interesting. This is also what is in the media today, where there is information about Danish researchers and the University of Copenhagen that has not been able to get in with their research and get to know if the government will support them. They were lucky to get 20 million. kr. of the money that we have helped to push into the EU is the money that helped to provide production in other companies in other countries. It also means that the countries that have these companies are actually before Denmark. So what has the government done for those scientists who already said a year ago: we have something that looks promising? How can the government help push so that they can actually get through it a little faster, so we have something that can be used in this pandemic that we have? What has been done by the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317131704	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317131705	Thank you for that question. Most importantly, I am delighted that there is such an interest in the vaccine issue, and it also sounds like there is a broad political consensus that we should go further and give different ways of ensuring that we have enough vaccines, not just at home, but at global level. With regard to specific cooperation with named researchers or companies, I must refer to the Minister for Health in relation to the specific dialogue that has taken place. But it can be said that we in Denmark have chosen to support, among other things. research in this area, which may of course be a necessary first step for the development of a Danish vaccine.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317131744	The next brief remark is to Mr. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317131747	Thank you for that and thank you to the Prime Minister for your reply. There is one place where the Prime Minister will certainly not hear criticism from the Left, and that is the way for more fundamental cooperation with Israel. I can promise the PM wouldn't be a criticism coming from us. Nevertheless, we may find it rather strange that the reference to Israel as being particularly strong on vaccines. Well, it's not on production, is it? It may be that they have a strong shopping centre in Israel, and one can commend them for that, but in terms of production it leaves something to be desired. I have a question to the Prime Minister, which relates to some of what the Prime Minister mentioned at the outset, where the Prime Minister said: no agreement has been reached with Israel. What is the Prime Minister's assessment of this? Will there be a definite agreement with Israel? That is my one question. My second question is, in the light of Mrs Liselott Blixt's observation, how can it be that at an early stage the government poured Bavarian Nordic's vaccine candidate down the board like this in principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317131853	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317131854	Firstly, I am incredibly pleased with the clarification about Israel, and it would also surprise me if bourgeois Denmark, under one, left the position for which bourgeois Denmark is also known, namely that Denmark, of course, has a close and good cooperation with the state of Israel, what we have had over all the years. And I have to say that I myself have had the idea in the course of the criticism that has been made in public about traveling to Israel, not from the Left, but from others, that it might have been a little more about a criticism on the issue of Israel than that there is a Danish Prime Minister who is seeking out all the possibilities of establishing a collaboration on a vaccine. Finally, I cannot imagine anyone would criticize. The Prime Minister could be criticised for the opposite if the Prime Minister were sitting at home just hoping that things would go well in the field of vaccines. But the fact that, as a government, we are doing everything we can to secure the right infrastructure in the management of corona, I assume that everyone supports it. In any case, I consider this to be one of our most important tasks in relation to whether or not there are specific agreements: if we are to reach a concrete agreement on something specific, it will of course require a normal and proper political process between the government and the parties of the Folketing. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317132009	The next brief remark is to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317132012	Thank you for that and thank you for your reply. There is no doubt that the world needs vaccines at the moment, and that is why, I assume, there are so many different creative solutions to how we can obtain as many as possible ourselves. But one of the keys to the world getting enough vaccines is, in fact, that the recipe is released, that is, that the production companies that have received very, very large public subsidies to develop vaccines also share the recipe, so that other production companies are given the opportunity to produce. I am just listening to the fact that it has been a difficult issue in the European Parliament to get support to press the WHO to insist that companies give up their patent or at least temporarily suspend their patent. What does the Prime Minister think about going along that path, which would be the way to ensure that we could produce enough and thus get enough vaccines before we are overtaken by new mutations and have to start over again?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317132117	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317132118	I think that, like all other discussions in the field of vaccines, this is also a real discussion, and we cannot ignore the fact that there is a whole world population who needs this vaccine at exactly the same time. It is also important to get into the discussion that it is not enough with Danish glasses that we get the Danish population vaccinated. Nor will it be enough for us to have the European people vaccinated. We have a whole range of efforts that we need to make, and we have a huge global responsibility. We have that with humanity, humane, but we actually have it with regard to dealing with the epidemic. Because there is a real risk of a scenario where parts of the earth's population have been well vaccinated and it seems that the vaccines are working, there are some challenges right now around AstraZeneca, but if we look at e.g. Pfizer-BioNTech, it is a good vaccine but in reality we risk an epidemic that can get out of control in those parts of the world where there are no vaccinations. So we will need to increase the capacity very much, but I am not sure that the path that has been set out, among other things. from SF's side, is the right way to go. It may risk setting us back, because we must also be honest and say that it is very much some pharmaceutical companies that have been able to invent a vaccine in an incredibly short time. Therefore, I personally tend more to a road where we buy licenses and here we are not the Danish state but where other companies can be allowed to per. to produce any vaccines authorised.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317132256	The next brief remark is to Mr. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317132258	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister. My question is very good in line with what the Prime Minister has just said on the platform here. For some of the things that have impressed me are how far we have come with international cooperation and cooperation across companies, and that has led us to stand today with not just one but several approved vaccines in an unprecedented short time. There is much that can be said about European cooperation and that has not worked optimally, but if the Prime Minister is to look at what has been going on and what has actually worked and then we look further ahead, not just at corona, but also at the next epidemic, is there something the Prime Minister is taking along and thinking that this is what we need to focus on doing better so that we stand better in Europe? Because it is probably not a problem we solve alone in Denmark; it is something we have to do across national borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317132344	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317132345	I fundamentally agree with the analysis, and I also very much agree with the approach that, even now, although we are still away in the more critical part of the management of corona, we must look forward. And without bringing the negotiations between all the parties into the Chamber, I believe that we are in fact agreed that we must start work now which points into the autumn. So getting started preparing for a daily life where hopefully a lot of people have been vaccinated and how we then continue to deal with the corona situation is the right way to go about this question. I think that what is really left as one of the most important learning points is that we were unprepared in Europe. We didn't have any protective equipment. We couldn't test the people. We didn't have the alert that was needed. Today, Denmark is close to being at the forefront. I guess we're almost world champions in terms of sequencing. We are testing hundreds of thousands of people every day, and it is given one of the explanations that we are now where we have the situation under control again and can consider further reopening, while others, also comparable countries, are shutting down. This, of course, includes the question of a people who are capable of doing everything we can to get through the pandemic. So I would say that the vulnerability to lack of protective equipment, testing at the beginning and now vaccines is one of the most important learning points. We simply need stronger preparedness in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317132509	The next brief remark is to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317132511	Thank you. I am here instead of our health rapporteur, Per Larsen. After all, this is a relevant issue and we have also discussed it in the EU circle, where I have had the pleasure of meeting the Prime Minister, so thank you for the Prime Minister's speech about the motivation for going to Israel. The week before the Prime Minister went to Israel, there was a meeting in the EU with the Prime Minister's colleagues, where five things were agreed: stepping up research and data exchange on corona to 150 million. EUR 300 million new doses of vaccines and a reduction in travel. My question to the Prime Minister is firstly: did the Prime Minister also discuss this journey with his EU colleagues, that is, that she would just leave the week after it was adopted? And secondly, why was it so important to travel right now when we had a crisis at home with corona? We are much better now, and the round with the party leaders was not concluded either. Why was it urgent when what we are returning home with is precisely a long-term research cooperation? Why not wait until there was more tranquillity at home and think about what kind of research alliances we need to do, perhaps also from a slightly broader analysis basis? Because, as Radicals have also said, there are research alliances across the board, including the European Union, and since then we have also had the Johnson & Johnson vaccine approved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317132637	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317132638	The short answer is that it is because I am impatient; that it is because I think it is going too slowly; and that it is because I would like to have vaccinated more Danes, vaccinated more Europeans and vaccinated more world citizens. That's the short answer. I don't have much time to deal with the corona. I am impatient, and this relates a little to the question: why highlight Israel, and why cooperate with Israel in this area? It is true that if you look closely at vaccine production, there are other countries that have production capacity, but Israel may have a bit of the same approach as I think is reflected in the Danish, namely that we are busy, that we are not leaning back and that we are constantly searching for new opportunities, whether it is coronapas, or vaccinations, or it is the handling of the first wave. And the energy that my colleagues in Israel have on this issue, I just have to say that I think the discussion is going well, because we do not have much time. We're behind. We are behind inoculating both our own people and the people of Europe, and that is why we must do everything we can to increase capacity.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317132741	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his reply. Then it is the Minister of Health for answering the question. And it is precisely appreciated that the previous speaker is preparing for the next speaker, and thus the Prime Minister cleans up ahead of the Minister for Health's arrival. The Prime Minister Yes, I do). And that's the way it's supposed to be. Thank you, Prime Minister. And welcome to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317132813	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank Enhedslisten for debating this issue, because it is about having full pressure and doing everything we can. We can do something at home, but it's a global race, and it's about gathering all the good powers to have this vaccine rolled out. The status right now is that we in Denmark have vaccinated 589,000 Danes, that is, 589,000 Danes have been given the first stick, and that we have completed the vaccination of 270,000. We have with those who have got the first plug, round 10%. That is good, and it is fast, compared to the epidemic, a whole new disease, hit us seriously a year ago, but we are in a race. The vaccine rollout in Denmark is very fast, also compared to other countries that are in the same situation, but pressure must be exerted, and it is on two fronts. One step is here and now, because the more we get vaccinated with safe, approved active vaccines, the sooner we can open up society and the fewer people are at risk of serious illness and hospitalisation. The second step, of course, concerns the fact that we know that this disease is mutating. The vast majority of mutations do not mean that the disease becomes more bad or more contagious, or that the vaccines are not effective, it is important to establish but it cannot be denied at all that revaccination will be necessary. And if we do not now do what it takes to do, in cooperation with all those who want to be involved in the cooperation - private, public, Danish, foreign, of course in the EU, but also outside the EU - then if we do not do everything, we risk being in a situation where we are not well prepared for a situation where we need vaccines quickly developed and quickly produced for the Danish population at some point again. After all, we know the alternative to not having vaccines in such a situation, and we do not want to stand in that again. That is why it seems to me to be timely care when we offensively seek out all the tracks and when everyone works on all fronts. That is also what the debate is about today. I would like to inform you about the Danish production facilities. We have had an ongoing debate on them, including among the health rapporteurs, who are here in the Chamber today. And it is the case that we in Denmark do not immediately have production facilities that are designed to enable you to easily and quickly convert to produce these mRNA vaccines. These are the ones from Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna. However, we have companies that can help with another element, namely the filling, and there we have been informed of the parties on several occasions whether or not they will be ready for it. They have reported that they are ready, and we have also reported back to the right systems that Danish companies are ready. It has now happened that some vaccine manufacturers have shown interest in making use of the Danish filling capacity. Hopefully, it will result in concrete agreements. I cannot give more information at this stage, but if it does, it will of course be incredibly gratifying not because we can tie it up that it will then go to Denmark, but because we will then get more production. And more production in Europe, of course close to Denmark, can only be good in order to get more vaccines for the Danes. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317133129	Thank you to the Minister for Health. One brief comment is now available. It's first for Mr. Knox. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317133135	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for Health for your reply. I fully agree with this and we are also in the Enhedslisten that it is crucial that we speed up, and it is good to hear that the government has now also got the same idea. I just think that there has been a rather foot-timing approach, both when it comes to the possibility of looking at whether a vaccine production could be established in Denmark, but also about the discussion that has been going on about whether we should fight to support the low-income countries that have fought to suspend patents in order to be able to produce and make the vaccine cake bigger. I have an answer that I have received from the Minister about the possibility of starting production, and the answer from the Ministry is that it can happen within 12 months, and if it is about sterile filling, it will probably be possible to do so within 5-12 months. We first asked back in March whether it should not be considered. We asked again in April and we have had the debate on a regular basis. That is why the question is simply why we have not looked at those possibilities in the past and why we have not been more actively involved in that fight, also in ensuring that patents can be suspended for the sake of global public health, which is of course also relevant to Danish vaccination efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317133253	The Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317133254	Some of what was read out from the answer here is exactly what we have examined. It's a very, very strong sector we have in Denmark, and we should be happy with that in every way... export... but it's also for the benefit of Danish patients. This is exactly the kind of stuffing capacity they have, which is less than the very, very demanding setup in vaccine factories. And that is exactly what we have been investigating and we have been building bridges in the dialogue with specific companies and countries with which we are working. If you are going to build an entire vaccine factory, you can see that some of what has happened at Pfizer is that factories have been built specifically for this production. So you have to know what kind of production you're building for. It is not the case that one can have empty factories standing and say that now we see what is coming; one has to have designed very, very focused on what it is for some productions and what it is for a type. This suggests now that these mRNA vaccines are in any case a major part of the solution at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317133359	The next brief remark is to Mr. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317133400	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for Health for your answer. Both Mrs Liselott Blixt and myself mentioned this in the questions before the Prime Minister, and it's this Bavarian Nordic vaccine that bothers me a little. For as I understand it, the Danish Medicines Agency gave back last summer a subsidy for, you could say that you had to continue working on the vaccine, also under the auspices of the Ministry of Health. I even think you asked for a little subsidy to get started. And that's what the Ministry of Health chose to pour down the board. Why would they do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317133445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317133446	I have read the article in Information, and unfortunately it is based on some slightly erroneous presentations of the situation. It is true that the Danish Medicines Agency back in July had been in dialogue with AdaptVac and has been developed at the University of Copenhagen and said: Here is something that could be promising. There we had already established this research support for Danish corona research, and they have also received support from these research pools. However, it happened that on 21 July we had reached an agreement with Bavarian Nordic, which was in negotiations with the European Union, and there are some rules that, as a government, we cannot go ahead with the negotiations with the European Union. So when the negotiations had been completed just at the beginning of September, we asked for a renewed recommendation from the Danish Medicines Agency, and the recommendation was that there was no recommendation to go in and give support for concrete production. That is not to say that we should not go further along that path, because what we can see is that there are probably some clues here, and if there is, we will return to the Folketing on that, and it is probably a matter of weeks. We are in close dialogue with the company, also with others, and if there is potential to go further, we will of course ask our authorities and be ready to do so, also to invest considerable Danish sums in a phase two, phase three, phase four experiments among these concrete Danish-developed products.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317133616	The next brief remark is to Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317133620	I'm just like my colleague, sir. Martin Geertsen interested in this case, because if we could want something in the Danish People's Party, it is that we do something for the production here in Denmark. Every time there has been something in the media that there are pharmaceutical companies that have spoken for deaf ears, that no one is listening, that no one is contacting them, even if they run both the Statens Serum Institut, the Danish Medicines Agency, the Danish Health Service and ministries on the doors, it is when you start to take it up and ask about it as if nothing is happening. After all, we have asked about it several times when there has been some promotion in the media about some companies in Denmark who say that they can be helpful. So I would like to hear the Minister say: when has the Minister or Ministry contacted, for example? the researchers at the University of Copenhagen to look at how to help them get started, to support the research and development of a vaccine in Denmark? Or have they been completely let sail their own lake?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317133728	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317133728-2	No, you certainly haven't. There has, of course, been, as I explained to Mr Seligman. Martin Geertsen, has been contact between our agencies and this research group, just as they have received support from the funds for basic research that were set aside already in the late spring/early summer last year. There they have received support for this, and there has then been what I have been informed about contact between the Danish Medicines Agency and these researchers. After they reached agreement with the producer and, incidentally, with some other producers, it resulted in a process within the EU that ended up not concluding an agreement with the EU. Then we said: what are we going to do from the Danish side? There has been the recommendation from our authorities that at that time and on that basis it was not relevant, but it might well be that it became relevant again and that is exactly what is happening. In fact, in winter and early spring there may have been opportunities, and if there are opportunities, we will return to the Folketing as soon as possible. And it will be in the form of concrete major investments in this from the Danish side, if that is the attitude, and if there is any realism in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317133842	The next brief remark is to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317133845	Thank you. Yeah, it's a wild time right now. The world needs vaccines. We also have that in Denmark, but exactly Israel is known for the fact that when they buy vaccines, it is also in exchange for citizens' health data, and it is a hot potato in Denmark. I also believe that the Minister knows that this great digitalisation that we have achieved in the field of health in Denmark is really conditional on citizens having confidence and can count on health data to stay where they need to be and cannot be exchanged for anything. So I would just like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister can guarantee that citizens' health data will never be a means of exchange in relation to vaccines, no matter how hard we are to get enough of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317133937	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317133939	Yes and thank you for that question. I am really glad that this is being put forward, because it is one of the things that flourishes in some newspapers and at least also on social media, and it is very important to make it clear that our rules on the protection of Danish health data, that is, patients' data, are not for sale and cannot in any way be included in any trade here. It is logical that if you are involved in clinical trials it may be with medicinal products or with vaccines or other treatments there is typically some follow-up. It may be that you have to have a blood sample or urine sample so that the researchers can follow the development. And then you show that you want to be a part of it when you go along with it. Those rules are also very well described and completely clear. It has never been the attitude of any government or our political attitude to change these rules, but only of course to be able to use them. Denmark would be a good country to say: let us try some trials with vaccines, because there is a great deal of connection to vaccines and we have very, very good health data. But it's not at all for us to go in and sell or trade or something, and it's very, very important to make that clear, so I hope I have done that here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317134044	The next brief remark is to Mr. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317134047	Thank you for that and thank you for your reply. Both the Minister for Health and the Prime Minister said that we must do what we can to provide enough vaccines for the Danish population. And I think everyone in this room agrees with that, too, in the general public. After all, there are also some vaccines developed in other countries that have not yet been approved in Europe. As you know, the European Medicines Agency is responsible for that part of it. Could the Minister imagine that we in Denmark should approve vaccines bypassing EMA and thus get e.g. the Russian or the Chinese vaccine on the market in Denmark before other countries, or is that something we need to do via the pan-European track?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317134124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317134125	So here I have to say that I think we are doing very well on the part of the Danish Parliament to listen carefully to our health authorities; they are the ones who have the expertise and responsibility. And I would not want to have a situation where it was up to parties and changing majority to assess whether a vaccine in Denmark is safe, safe and good. We need to have confidence there. The great trust and support that the population has for vaccination, which I am pleased that Stinus Lindgreen also mentions here, is not self-evident. It is not a matter of course, and it is not around Europe, nor of course in Denmark. And that is why it depends on the fact that we have strong authorities that communicate strongly and clearly to the population, and we are currently seeing this with the situation that is around AstraZeneca, where you are completely transparent and fast ready to act and communicate and investigate when there is something. And that's why I'm gonna leave it entirely up to our authorities to assess this. And there we have a strong setup with EMA, which is the European Medicines Agency, which assesses these things and in which our Danish Medicines Agency is also represented.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317134235	Thank you to the Minister for Health. Then there are no further brief comments to the Minister for Health. This means that we are now moving to the debate, which means that the general rules apply to short remarks. And, as mentioned at the outset, it may be necessary, depending on the desire to ask questions, to shorten it to have only one brief comment, but time will tell. While I have stood and entertained, the Minister for Health has cleaned up so that the next rapporteur has been prepared, and that is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317134307	Thank you for that, President. It has probably not passed many people's attention that we in the Enhedslist were deeply puzzled when the Prime Minister suddenly announced his trip to Israel a few weeks ago in order to start a vaccine cooperation • Israel, which is an occupying power which has not supplied vaccines to the up to 5 million Palestinians living under Israel's occupation; Israel, which, in order to become the world champion in the roll-out of vaccines, has entered into very close cooperation with Pfizer under very far-reaching conditions, where citizens' health data are widely and allegedly 30 years in the future; Israel, which has no experience in vaccine production. Against this backdrop, we are very surprised that the Prime Minister so selfishly selects and visits Israel in order to initiate cooperation, the nature and scope of which still seem rather unclear, just as I have to say that the government's actions here appear to be very arbitrary. Already before the Prime Minister's departure, we asked for an account of the plans that we have unfortunately not received. And that is not because we have not raised the issues of increased vaccine production, the existing opportunities in the patent system or have asked questions about government plans, initiatives, what they have examined and who they have been in contact with. It has not been satisfactory. It is not only a matter of de facto putting forward a new foreign policy line in relation to Israel and Palestine; it is also a question of the health of the people and how we get out of the crisis. Parliament must, of course, be involved in this. The hope of the Enhedslisten until today has therefore been to get answers to a number of questions. What are the concrete plans for cooperation? What does that mean? What are the costs and conditions? And what is the time perspective? And we have wanted the Prime Minister to explain how the Prime Minister can think that it is all right to direct the efforts to obtain and produce vaccines towards Israel without consulting us and without explaining the specific content. We expect that approach to change after today's debate. On Monday it was exactly 1 year ago that the Enhedslisten called for us to set up a genuine state vaccine production for the first time since the covid-19 crisis. According to a reply from the government, it takes about a year to build up national production; in other words, we could have had public vaccine production today if the government had acted quickly on this issue when the epidemic hit. And as you can read in Information today, it sounds like the government has refused to help a promising Danish vaccine candidate with researchers from the University of Copenhagen at a critical time. We have wasted precious time. We could have started a national vaccine production which today could have increased the total amount of available vaccines, minimized our dependence on a few private pharmaceutical companies, helped to avoid unsafe deliveries and secret agreements and also to keep prices down. As you know, the government did not do that then, but in the Enhedslisten we are glad that the government has now also become concerned about how we increase vaccine production. So what has happened has happened and now let us look forward. We therefore strongly urge the government to call the Danish Parliament's parties for negotiations on Denmark's lead and future vaccine strategy focusing on development, production and procurement. There is no doubt about what Enhedslisten brings to the negotiating table. We want the government to initiate public vaccine production so that we strengthen security of supply with durable, reliable supplies and help to increase the total vaccine cake. We know it can be done. The University of Copenhagen and the Statens Serum Institute are about to have fully developed vaccines. We also need other supply channels, but let us do all we can here to ensure that production is stable in the hands of the community. This production does not depend on the whimsies and deliveries of profit-making companies; a production that is in the hands of the community and that can form a cornerstone of our health preparedness for many years to come. On behalf of the Enhedslisten, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the Conservative People's Party, the New Citizens' Party and the Alternative, I will read out the following proposals for adoption: The Danish Parliament notes that the development, production and purchase of vaccines against covid-19 is central. The Danish Parliament notes that the government should involve the Danish Parliament in the preparation of the vaccine strategy. This has been neglected by the Prime Minister at the latest in connection with visits to Israel. The Folketing invites the government to call the parties for negotiation on the current and future vaccine strategy. • V 87).
ParlaMint-DK_20210317134754	Thank you to the rapporteur and thank you for the proposal for adoption, which will be included in the further negotiations. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317134801	Thank you. Now I understand that Enhedslisten has this text of adoption ready, which a majority in the Danish Parliament also seems to support, so it is interesting to hear what such a vaccine plan might contain. Is this something that is coordinated with the Left and other parties of the Enhedslisten? What has been done about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317134825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317134826	The crucial thing for us is that the issue of a future vaccine strategy is so important that it is of course something that must be adopted by the parties of the Folketing, and it is clear that the government, as in all kinds of other negotiations, will call for negotiations, and then you will have to seek a majority of the parties of the Folketing. I have explained what our approach to these negotiations is, and that is, of course, the view we want to make and which we will advocate in those negotiations. However, this is absolutely crucial when we talk about a vaccine strategy that affects both the number of vaccines now and here, but also for the future, when we meet new epidemics, and when we talk about possible revaccination of the population, that is a strategy that is supported by the parliamentary parties. And what we are calling for here is to respect the general rules of parliamentary play and ensure that there is support for the policy pursued.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317134916	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317134917	It is good that I can ask two questions, for that is excellent. Is this something that is coordinated with other parties? I got an answer, but it wasn't an answer to my question. So, I assume that when you make such a text of adoption together, some things have been coordinated and some positions have also been coordinated behind the text that has been drafted. Is there more that has been coordinated in relation to what this could contain, for example with the Left or other bourgeois parties? For it is, after all, a fine, broad composition of parties that is behind that text of adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317134950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317134950-2	I have to say that I am somewhat incomprehensible about the thinking, because what we are calling for is that the parties of the Folketing should negotiate together. Of course, we have not made any prior agreements on what these negotiations should lead to. That's what we're looking for from the government. When it is something that is so important for Denmark, the Danish population and the future vaccine strategy, it is of course something that must take place in a debate between the parties of the Folketing, and that is why we say to the government that the government must convene the negotiations, and then there will be discussions between the parties. Nothing has been applauded in advance. This is how the rules of the people's regime are, of course, the parties negotiate with each other, and you put forward the views you now have, and then you arrive at a result in the end. That is how it should be, and that is what we believe the government has neglected in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317135035	The next question, which is also allowed to make two brief remarks, is Mr. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317135039	Thank you. In any case, we can agree that negotiations should be convened without necessarily agreeing on what the outcome of the negotiations should be. The rapporteur mentioned that back in March last year we could have started building a factory and perhaps it would have been finished around now. But the rapporteur made it sound as if we would have had a Danish vaccine, so we could have saved not just Denmark, but perhaps the whole world. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether it is not true that we have three or four approved vaccines, that there are also three or four large companies that have been developing vaccines that have failed and that they have had to give up after billions of investments and years of work, and that there are certain risks involved in this, so that there is no guarantee that, just because you have a factory there, you have a vaccine at the other end.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317135128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317135129	It is quite obvious that it is not a guarantee that we had a vaccine, but as the debate here today has also reflected, and as reality has reflected, there is an enormous need for vaccines. The issue is that there has been a shortage of vaccines in Denmark and Europe, but there is a shortage of vaccines at global level in particular, and there we have to expect that we will reach 2024 before the population has been vaccinated globally, and this will also have consequences for public health in Denmark, in relation to the possibility of new mutations. That is why our message is that every stone must be turned around, and when it is so that we can see that both the Statens Serum Institute and the University of Copenhagen have placed researchers for public funds and developed vaccines, but who cannot go any further in relation to phase three and four experiments and a definite production and distribution, then it is absolutely crucial that public funds are introduced in relation to it, and it also matters that the state invests in the research and development of vaccines and in the long term also in relation to production. Because that is also what will enable us to offer vaccines for example. low-income countries and ensure security of supply. It is clear that this will not be an easy solution immediately, but in relation to the answers we have received, the assessment is that this will be possible within a year. There are many things that can go wrong, there are many bumps on the road, but at least the attempt should be made for reasons of public health both at national and global level.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317135250	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317135251	Thank you. I shall be the first to support public investment in research. It's incredibly important, not least when we're in the middle of a pandemic. As far as I know, one of these vaccines has had first in human trial here a few days ago, and after all there is some way to phase three studies on that vaccine, and then we have to see if it works in practice when it comes out. But it's an insanely exciting technology. My point is, in relation to much of this, that I think that all countries should do research in this, that all countries should do what they can, but is it not right when you look at how it has worked so far, that we are making better promises in groups, that this is something we can do internationally, because pandemics are by their very nature cross-border and are not something that a single small country can handle entirely on its own?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317135328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317135330	Obviously, this is a global responsibility. That is also why it is incumbent on everyone to do what they can, and we in Denmark have not done enough to ensure that. Because no matter how talented it is now that private pharmaceutical companies have been, it is research that is largely based on public funds, and today it is often the case that we actually pay twice for the vaccines, because we first pay for the basic research that is being done, then we transfer it to the pharmaceutical industry, and then we pay again through the patent system for the vaccine. And when we find ourselves in a situation where we expect that vaccination will not be completed until 2024 at global level, we also have a responsibility as a nation to contribute to international cooperation and to ensure that vaccines can be developed in public cooperation in Denmark with possibly Nordic countries or other European countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317135419	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317135444	Denmark lacks vaccines, the whole world lacks vaccines, and if we are to overcome the pandemic, then many more vaccines will have to be produced in the future. We have experienced a unique work, not just in developing one, but a number of different vaccines that are currently being rolled out in Denmark and the rest of the world. This is positive, but unfortunately, as you know, things are going too slowly. Our own vaccine calendar has already been delayed. It has major consequences. This may mean that restrictions must last longer because we have not had everyone vaccinated with everything that it has to do with the economy as well, for well-being, for mental health, for association activities and much, much more. At the same time, the corona crisis has also shown a great vulnerability. We weren't as well armed as we thought when the crisis hit. We needed protective equipment, and now we need vaccines. We must be much better equipped if or when a new epidemic or pandemic strikes us again. Therefore, we must not only provide more vaccines in the short term; we must also be much stronger in the longer term so that we do not need vaccines or other critical equipment again. So we need both more vaccines and we need to increase the total production. We must do so in the interests of the Danes, and we must do so in the interests of the rest of the world. Because it is such a pandemic here that as long as it rages in large parts of the world, new mutations can arise that could undermine all the work we have put into it so far. And even though it has been a unique achievement to develop vaccines in just a year, we are still on untrampled soil. No one knows how long the vaccines will last. We do not know their full ability to protect against future mutations, and we must also be prepared there for us to be in a situation where Danes have to be vaccinated several times. All this points to one thing: we need to produce many more vaccines, not only this year but also in the years to come, and we need to ensure security of supply so that we do not have to keep society closed again because production is moving too slowly. Through the European Union, we have helped to buy many millions of vaccines for Denmark. The first arrived just before New Year's, and since then we have fortunately had many of our elderly and many of our vulnerable citizens vaccinated. That is why we must, of course, stick to the European Union's track and the agreements we have made under it. And we still believe that Denmark stands best by being part of the close cooperation. However, the EU track cannot and should not be entirely alone. Of course, we must look at all the options available to ensure more vaccines, not as an alternative to the EU track, but as a supplement. That's why the Prime Minister went to Israel. Israel is the most advanced country in the world with the roll-out of vaccines, which is why it is of course relevant to take advantage of the experience gained in Israel. In addition, both Israel and Austria have similar considerations about the need to have vaccine production in the future. Therefore, research and development cooperation has also been established with Israel and with Austria, and it has been agreed that each time we start developing a local vaccine production in public-private partnerships, we exchange experiences on an ongoing basis. The government has also presented a partnership with the Danish life science sector, which among other things. should look at the possibility of producing vaccines in Denmark. This is all aimed at ensuring greater production capacity and more vaccines. In the Social Democratic Party, of course, we fully support the fact that the government and the Prime Minister are seeking every possibility of obtaining more vaccines for the population, just as we fully agree that more opportunities should be sought for the production of vaccines. I have a text for adoption. Can I read it now? I'd love to!). I read it on behalf of the Social Democratic Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament calls on the government to explore all possible ways of strengthening access to vaccines. Parliament also calls on the government to explore ways of strengthening vaccine production in order to ensure the safety of the population during the current and possible future pandemics. • V 88).
ParlaMint-DK_20210317135905	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Then there are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, first from Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317135916	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I fully agree that we need to look into all the options, which is why I just need to know if Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff does not agree that it is rather paradoxical that we in Denmark have developed vaccines both at the Statens Serum Institute and at the University of Copenhagen, which have actually stood and lacked the capital to be able to make further testing in relation to any later production and distribution. In other words, is it not paradoxical that we are in the situation that this has actually happened and that we have had the opportunity as a government, as a state to go in and support that development so that the vaccine candidates could be moved further forward so that we could stand with them earlier when we lack vaccines, both at national and global level? Isn't there an opportunity that has been neglected there, now that all options have to be explored?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317140001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317140003	Well, it's been part of what the state has supported vaccine research in Denmark. A total of 1.7 million has been allocated. kr. in support of corona research. So I just want to say that there has actually been state funding for research in corona.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317140023	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317140024	Well, yeah, well, I guess we've set aside 18.7 million. kr. for vaccines at the Statens Serum Institut. But it's a handkerchief, compared to what we're talking about. It costs to develop a vaccine. We raised the demand on 10 April last year that we should allocate 0.5 billion. kr. It would, of course, be half a billion who were extremely well spent if today we had actually had some real vaccine candidates. It is clear that we could not have known for sure, but now it suggests that at least the one at the KU, which Bavarian Nordic has now entered, is. In other words, would it not have been wise and long-term and forward-looking to say then too: we should turn every stone around? And fortunately, it sounds like the government is now in agreement with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317140112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317140118	Yes, but as I replied just now, there have been state funds outside also for Danish projects. What I think is important if I am to look a little forward on what I think we can agree on is that there is a great desire to have more local vaccine production, preferably along with other countries to get it closer and get more contact with it, so that we are not as vulnerable in the future. Then there can always be a discussion about how local it should be but at least something that is very, very close to and with great Danish influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317140148	The next brief remark is to Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317140152	Thank you very much. I would say that although I can say in many ways that I agree with the Enhedslisten, we have different views on some of the things we are discussing. I also fully agree that we need to search everything that is available to get vaccines, and we have no objection to going to Israel. Israel is a wonderful country, and we should have gone on our own with the Health Committee last year, precisely because we are very comparable countries. But when you say that it is because they are good at vaccines, I would say that they are only good at buying them and giving them. In other words, it would have been better to have said that they have a health service that actually has a fantastic digital system to register and to pick up something we would have liked to learn from in the Health Committee. Having said that, the rapporteur also says that we have given Danish crowns to Danish researchers. That is why I would like to know whether the rapporteur can say here and now what we have given from Danish funds which have not been in the European Union but have been given directly by the Danish Government, by Danish governments, authorities or others. What is given of money and to whom?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317140303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317140305	My acquaintance is given 1.7 million. kr. to the AdaptVac project. In addition, in relation to the good advice on what can be argued about such a visit to Israel, I would say that these are some good points that the Danish People's Party rapporteur makes in relation to Israel being a comparable country in terms of health. That is exactly why I had completely forgotten that we should actually have been to Israel. It was then cancelled or postponed for various reasons. But there are all kinds of good reasons for that. It is therefore also a further good argument that there can be every sense in taking down opportunities and looking for opportunities, exchanging experiences and also looking at future cooperation, including in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317140400	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317140402	I think that the rapporteur and the government must also be aware that when you are very headstrong and do not tell us what is happening and are very secretive, then you do get some questions asked. That is why I would like to know whether the Socialist rapporteur knows what agreements have been made with Israel and Austria and can tell about it and dedicate the rest of us to this so that we know what has been agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317140429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317140430	I think that both the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health and I have given very clear answers to that, so there is not so much secrecy there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317140444	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's line comes from the Left, and that is Mr. Martin Geertsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317140513	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister and to the Minister for Health for the answers. The provision of vaccines to the Danish population is therefore an extremely important issue, and so I would like to start by thanking Enhedslisten for having taken the initiative in this debate. The question of vaccines is of course important in the middle of a pandemic. A stable and rapid delivery of vaccines is the very prerequisite for us to be able to reopen Denmark as soon as possible, and we in the Left want that. We want Denmark to be reopened as quickly as possible. In fact, we want it so much that we have actually put forward a plan for what I understand the government has also signed up to. In fact, the issue of vaccines is so important that we really do not think it is something that can be left to the government alone. In the Left, we think that the issue is so important that we really want to encourage the government to involve the parties in the organisation of the Danish vaccine strategy to a greater extent than has been the case up to now. In order for this to be done, I think it will require more openness on the part of the government in relation to what has been done and has not been done so far. First of all, there is the one about the journey to Israel that is now quite rightly mentioned. I have, of course, followed the media's reference to the Prime Minister's efforts at vaccineing, and I would even like to say that I have tried to follow it quite carefully, and yet it is not, moreover, after today's debate, at least until now, so crystal clear to me what the result of the Prime Minister's visit to Israel really was. And one thing is, it doesn't stand crystal clear to me... I think most people can survive... but another thing is, and it's perhaps more important that the Danes get an insight into what they really can expect from results after that journey. Secondly, it is certainly important to have a global view, but sometimes the solutions are also closer to us than we immediately imagine, and in this case they may even be in our immediate vicinity, in fact right in our own backyard. There it can be, for example. wondering that last summer the Ministry of Health chose to sit a recommendation from the Danish Medicines Agency to support a Danish vaccine ignore. This vaccine has been developed by researchers from the University of Copenhagen and is now licensed by Bavarian Nordic. And so I still have the merit of getting such a very good explanation of why the government did not more offensively ship its way into this seemingly excellent PPP project. Thirdly, I think that the government has been very busy distanced from the EU's management of vaccine purchases so as to stand the EU in a stretched arm, as if it really has nothing to do with us. But it does. Well, we are, whether you like it or not, sir. Peder Hvelplund, or not, part of the EU. After all, we are the European Union. And there I am still in favour of having such a very good and in-depth statement from the government about what has actually been done in the EU system over the last year, and to what extent and how the Danish Government has put its mark on the European vaccine strategy. The Left's approach to future vaccine development, like all possible other forms of drug development, is that it takes place under the auspices of public-private partnerships in close cooperation between the public sector, on the one hand, in the form of know-how from our healthcare and universities, and, on the other hand, the pharmaceutical industry in the form of their know-how and, not least, risk capital. We do not think that this public-private partnership should be isolated to be a purely national Danish matter. It could also be under the auspices of the other Nordic countries, it could be a joint EU project or it could be broader. Perhaps they could even be several parallel tracks. We would like to discuss all of this with the government awfully, terribly, and we would like to contribute to the development of a future Danish vaccine strategy, but I think it also requires the government to show its hand that the government is open about what it has and what it has not done so far, and that at the same time the government is willing to involve the parties of the Folketing in future work on the development of vaccines. Of course, we support the text adopted by us ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317140942	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317140949	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Martin Geertsen for the speech. Now I was asked earlier whether any agreements had been reached on what this future vaccine cooperation should be based on. And after you've heard both Mr. Martin Geertsen's speech and my speech, I think it is true that it is not there, but it does not change the fact that we basically have the same intention that we want this to be a matter of openness and that, of course, the parties of the Folketing should be involved. That is also why we have the joint text for adoption. But what I'd like to ask, sir. Martin Geertsen (PPE), rapporteur. - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. Because if you have a clever approach to the economy, you might think it a little unfair that on the one hand you place a lot of public funds in the research and development of vaccines, while then you leave it to the private, and then there is a patent system that subsequently ensures that we have to buy the vaccine again and then pay a pretty high price for it, which also means that it will not be available at global level. So I just need to know whether the Left has a fundamental disagreement in that it is possible to use the public as a muscle in producing vaccines.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317141055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317141056	May I not begin by acknowledging that, sir. Peder Hvelplund says about what we have a joint text for adoption. In other words, the fact that we want to negotiate on some things is not necessarily the same as saying that we also agree on what the outcome of the negotiations should be. I just want to say that, and I will sign for the political analysis of Mr. Peder Hvelplund. I was actually talking about this in my speech here. Well, now Mr. Peder Hvelplund himself with the muscles here, and we believe that there is a need for both the private muscle and the public muscle. And that is why I am saying as I do, namely that there is a need for some know-how from the public sector, both from our health services and from our universities, and then the know-how from the pharmaceutical industry is needed, and indeed very much the risk capital that lies in the pharmaceutical industry. So we believe that the interplay between the public and the private can lead us far, both in relation to the development of future vaccines, but also in the field of medicine in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317141157	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317141159	I find that interesting, because I think there might well be a perspective in that too. That is why I would just like to ask whether there will be such a fundamental opposition to the fact that when there is research and development in public-sector vaccines, it is also beginning to call for compensatory measures, for example. supplies in relation to availability at global level. In other words, if we are to make that knowledge available to the private sector, we must demand something in return. It is, of course, a bit like that of an PPP, that is, a public-private partnership, and I can hear that the rapporteur agrees that this could well be a way forward. That may not be the end goal of Enhedslisten, but it could, after all, be a step along the way in relation to the public sector starting to get something in return for everything you invest.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317141242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317141244	But it is clear that if you make some kind of strategic partnership between the public and private, then you agree, if I am to be a little low-practical about where the limit should actually go, in relation to who delivers what and what demands you make of each other. Well, it's quite natural when you make a partnership in many of life's relationships that you sort of find out where it is, the limit goes. But it's just hard for me to stand here and say very accurately, sir. Peder Hvelplund, where it is exactly, the limits go, and what kind of benefits might be required of each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317141317	The next brief remark is to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317141321	Thank you. 15 million kr. was the poor price we were given in terms of selling vaccine production to what is now AJ Vaccines. It was the previous government that led to this sale, and I really just want to hear from the Left whether, in the inexorable light of hindsight, with a coronapandemic and a whole year on the back, it was not a mistake that we sold the state's vaccine production.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317141354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317141404	In fact, I think it was thoughts that the government that was there before we had the power of government was already working on. It was, after all, a government led by the Social Democrats. But we're happy to take responsibility for it. And the answer is basically the same as to Mr. Peder Hvelplund. I think that what the left is arguing for here is the nature of a quick fix, as long as we get some buildings on Danish soil, we can call Danish vaccine production, then the sacred grave is well preserved. It's just talk. In other words, I believe that what the public authorities can make available is what we know from the know-how from health care and from our higher education institutions, and what the private sector, in other words the pharmaceutical industry, can make available is also a huge know-how based on all sorts of other developments, all sorts of other vaccines and medicines, plus risk capital. I simply have to say that not for ideological reasons, but also for practical reasons, I simply believe that the fact that as long as we set up some buildings on Amager, we have saved Danish vaccine production is a bit of talk. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317141507	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317141511	I guess that was a no. Martin Geertsen Yes! ) Now the pharmaceutical industry is also building on very much public know-how, and now we are looking at the situation as it is, and the rapporteur is appealing for a political strategy on how to distribute vaccines. So these are vaccines that we do not have, because we have no influence on how industry chooses to produce vaccines and to whom they choose to sell them. So what is really our opportunity to influence how we secure enough vaccines for Denmark and vaccines for the world when we do not have a share in the production ourselves, besides having enough money?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317141557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317141559	I will answer Mrs Kirsten Normann's question. May I not just say in general terms: I really think that it is the political left who has painted himself completely in a corner and said that there is only one solution that works, and that is if we get a state vaccine production on Artillery Road out on Amager, and then it runs out there, friends. I think that is simply too unmanageable a way to look at this, because it is basically about getting those different things in play from the public and private sectors respectively. Will Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen be willing to make this a simple counter-question, and I will then make it available later when Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen comes on the platform to make the capital provided by private individuals available in the form of tax dollars? I simply do not believe that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317141645	I can see that there is another person who would like to take part in the debate. I give room for this, but it is not a guarantee that it can continue in relation to the time aspect. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, with a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317141655	I do not think that reality has pushed the left against the wall. Frankly, does the rapporteur think that the market has accomplished this task particularly well? With free research that can be used to profit from, if you want, you cannot even deliver what we need in society. And it is not the left who praises the fact that the market can always find solutions. Does the rapporteur, as a Liberal, think that the market has done well in this task?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317141727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317141728	That's a strange question, sir. Christian Juhl is there because it will require a major social analysis where an alternative could be put forward. You might wonder. We are never going to put the way the vaccine has been produced in the current situation up against the Artillery Road solution, as Mr. Christian Juhl and the left are imagining that it was like what had to solve Denmark's vaccine challenges. We'll never get the social science analysis. But before we go too far down the trail of everything being wrong, I would say that it is in record time that we have been able to develop a wide range of vaccines in public-private cooperation, it is fair to say. It's been extremely fast. Then you can discuss all sorts of things with the fact that some people have not kept what they promised, or that some people have not read the small print in the contracts, or what I know, but it is in record time that the vaccines have been developed. Everyone must recognize that, no matter what political wing one belongs to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317141834	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317141836	That was a gesture by a liberal politician. Martin Geertsen No!). We have proposed the beginning of a much greater capacity for lifting patents and so on. to get laid on this production. What were we told by the Left and the government? No, no, no, those who have been put to it and who have been allowed to produce these things must be able to do so. What are we standing in now? A real crisis. Then I guess it's okay to criticise those who are wild market supporters and ask them if they honestly think that the market is doing well. I understand that the rapporteur is making a long point of view, but if the rapporteur himself does not want to say so, I will say it briefly: no, this has not been done by the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317141916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317141918	What I was trying to say to mr. Christian Juhl, was that, yes, the market has done that. In record time, vaccines have been developed on the market, and that is something that is not discussed, because it has been done in record time. It is just to say that this perhaps very well illustrates that the Enhedslisten and the Left have no prewritten agreement on where the end goal is to be for this. I can just say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317141945	Thank you to the Left Health rapporteur. There is no room for further brief remarks to the rapporteur. On the other hand, there is room for the next rapporteur from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Liselott Blixt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317142000	Thank you very much. Even if you can agree on parts, it is not always that you agree on everything. But one thing we at least agree on is that we were all worried when the covid-19 came to Denmark and not just to Denmark, but to the whole world. Very soon thereafter, when you saw what was wrong, scientists all over the world began researching it. I think that before you could see it, there were 150-170 different research sites that tried to develop a vaccine. After all, no one expected it to go as fast as it did. Even in Denmark they started. One might well ask whether enough was done at home to support that research or to investigate whether a vaccine could be produced in Denmark. Not much was done back then to support the Danish researchers. You were, after all, with the great European Union that had to take care of everything, and it was there that all the money was put down so that pharmaceutical companies located in other countries could be provided with good financial support from the European Union. More than 3.7 billion were invested. EUR to develop the vaccines. The Danish researchers got 20 million. kr. of the EU funds. Fortunately, we saw here the other day that people are already being tested. This is done in the Netherlands to get more countries across it when testing the vaccine. It's something you have to do. However, the other companies that were put money in were pushed forward well, because production had to be produced and it had to be done quickly. We just had to do something about this pandemic, which made it impossible to live a normal life anymore. Fortunately, we could see that the vaccines came here before Christmas, and of course many were pleased that you could now see an end to having to stay behind and not see your loved ones. It was a liberating moment when we saw the elderly in our nursing home get the first vaccines and thus could start looking forward to a time of opportunity for association. A plan was developed for when the next consignments would come, how much would come, who would be vaccinated. That plan has been made a couple of times, because what happened and what happens? The pharmaceutical companies that have actually received money from, among others. Denmark, through the EU, suddenly cannot send the agreed doses. I would say that today, just before we went into this debate, we could see that it has again moved forward three weeks. We don't know exactly why. We have not been able to get an answer to that, but it may well be that we will get it. We can see that we in the Danish People's Party believe that in this way it is a setback for how well the EU is working at all, especially when we also see that the Prime Minister is going out and trying to make an agreement with Israel. We are very fond of Israel and we think that we should look at all the possibilities that exist, but we would like to have as much at home as possible. But it could be fantastic, since the Prime Minister went to Israel and said that we have some really good researchers in Denmark if they could help produce that vaccine. But these are all the things we don't know much about. What does this deal contain? Others are also afraid that it is our data that we sell to other countries etc. So there are a lot of things we would like answers to. I can't say that much anymore. I see there's someone sitting next to me. However, we agree with the proposal for adoption by the majority, although the Social Democrats' proposal for adoption is also fine. There's nothing wrong with it. However, the second proposal also contains that the rest of us want to be involved when some decisions are taken for the entire Danish population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317142432	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then I have jumped out of the chair to give the floor to a brief remark by Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317142437	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt for her speech. Finally, Mrs Liselott Blixt said that Israel was to be welcomed, and I should just like to ask the rapporteur whether she is not concerned about having to cooperate with a country which does not fulfil its international obligations to secure vaccines for the five million Palestinians who live in the occupied territories and who do not have access to vaccines. Does Mrs Liselott Blixt think that this is a vaccine roll-out that we should be inspired by and that we should learn from?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317142516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317142519	It is actually a debate that could probably be spent many hours on, i.e. whether it is true that they are not being offered vaccines. We can hear from many of those who actually stay in the places there are people who have family in those places that you vaccinate both Palestinian prisoners and others. But it is a foreign policy debate that I am not taking. I am very pleased with Israel and I look forward to having another trip planned in the Health Committee, because they are very good in some areas that are comparable to ours. But if we go in and start looking at how they treat their citizens in a human right, then I think there are a lot of countries we should not talk to. And if we started cutting everyone over a comb there, we wouldn't have much to talk to in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317142602	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317142603	Now I think it is a very good idea to look at how the countries with which we work treat their own citizens. This is not just for Israel. This also applies to other countries, which I know are the subject of concern, which the Danish People's Party also sometimes shares. But let me ask you another way: does Mrs Liselott Blixt think that Israel is an example of vaccine roll-out when it comes to the fact that a condition for obtaining vaccines from Pfizer has been that health data should be provided to Pfizer precisely in order to have access to vaccines? And when Israel has no experience of vaccine production, does Mrs Liselott Blixt also think that Israel is an interesting partner in this context when we are talking about starting a vaccine production to ensure better access to vaccines at global level?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317142650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317142652	Now data is a great many things, and we have discussed personal data many times as rapporteurs, and we are also very much in agreement in this area. But we are also aware that we need data, and we also have pharmaceutical companies in Denmark that make use of the data. There are also a great many citizens who consent to the use of data. We know that Denmark's Statistics has all our data. There are a lot of places that have data. So what are some data that Israel says they need to give a vaccine? I don't know. I mean, we also collect data, for example. about side effects and effects, and we have to do that, so we know what we're dealing with when we give a vaccine.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317142730	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317142751	Thank you. Thank you to the Enhedslisten for calling the question debate and thank the ministers for their replies. We've been living with corona for a year. It's been a tough year, but fortunately, we're going to have a brighter time, and I think we should keep that in mind right now. Spring is coming and more are being vaccinated. But it's going too slow. The production of vaccines has been inadequate and too much managed by the pharmaceutical industry. This industry has been supplemented by billions of public aid for development but is now putting itself above the community and working closed down and without transparency. If you have money, you can get it is a principle that in health care just creates the greatest inequality. But it's also a fact that with a pandemic, no one is saved until everyone is saved. It certainly makes sense for Parliament to assume a joint responsibility for discussing a Danish vaccine strategy, and I also note a great deal of agreement on this, although it sounds as if there is a long way to go in terms of what we can agree on when it comes to what the strategy should be. In the SF, we think it was a mistake for the EU to vote against proposals from India and South Africa and a number of NGOs to impose on the WTO to suspend patents on vaccine production so that more can contribute to production. Enough vaccines are and remain a prerequisite for us to combat the epidemic. In the SF we still believe that it was a huge mistake that the previous government decided to sell the state's vaccine production. A Danish non-profit vaccine production or a public-private collaboration would be a huge force now. Strong and binding European or Nordic cooperation on vaccine production can also make sense. In the SF, however, we are critical of the government's ideas of a production cooperation with Israel for several reasons. We are, among other things. Because of the condition that Israel has exchanged health data for vaccines, but above all because rich Danes should not be vaccinated with vaccines that should have been given to poor Palestinians. The epidemic is global and it is necessary that the entire population of the world be vaccinated. Otherwise, we run the risk of the epidemic dragging on as new mutations arise. So the only winners in this strategy are the pharmaceutical industry. Summing up, we need to ensure better and more extensive production of vaccines, and we need to remember the importance of showing solidarity with the countries of the world both for their sake and for our own sake. The Folketing has already been presented with two proposals for adoption. In the SF we can support and vote for both of them. We just don't think strategies make a difference in themselves. I also think that today's debate has shown that agreeing on a strategy is not the same as agreeing on a strategy. On the other hand, what I believe and believe we must agree on is that vaccine production is essential for the solution of the pandemic. Therefore, I would also like to make a third offer for a proposal for adoption by making the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government should work for increased vaccine production at national and global level. The Danish Parliament wants an account of Danish companies' opportunities to contribute to vaccine production and the restoration of state vaccine production. Parliament is unfamiliar with the Prime Minister's cooperation with Austria and Israel and takes note of the desire for closer cooperation in the EU. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317143147	Thank you for this proposal for adoption, which will also be included in the further discussions. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317143154	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen for her speech. We are broadly in complete agreement. I am just a little surprised when Mrs Kirsten Normann says that the debate here shows that it can be difficult to draw up a vaccine strategy. That is why I should just like to know whether the rapporteur does not agree that the prerequisite for achieving a vaccine strategy is that we sit down together and that this is something we use the parliamentary tools to design, rather than that it is something that is happening without parliamentary participation in it and with the consequences that the rapporteur rightly points out have been unfortunate in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317143241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317143243	Yes, and in fact I think that there has been much more discussion of strategy than some parties in recent days have wanted to acknowledge. I recall back at the beginning of this pandemic, where we had decisions, major decisions on huge amounts of money that had to be set aside under the European Union in order to post money in production companies in order to develop vaccines. It was, of course, a strategy, and it was also a real strategy • a lot of good public crowns that were used to research so much that it also managed to stand with vaccines at a relatively early stage. That is why I am also concerned that we are paying more attention to the fact that it is production, more than it may be the purchase of something that is not available at the moment. But production is a key word in relation to a strategy, and there I think there might have been a little bit far from one side of the Assembly Hall to the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317143343	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317143344	It could have been very nice to have known exactly what the purpose of the trip to Israel was, for example, what kind of cooperation one would have to engage in there and what kind of research cooperation one imagines to be. At least I would like and Enhedslisten to be part of the reflection on what kind of future track we are laying. Because if I sat, for example... in Stockholm or in Berlin or in Paris or in Brussels, I also think I would look a little at where Denmark is going to go where one is interested in cooperating. I would like to be a part of those discussions, especially when they take place in such controversial cooperation as with, for example, the United States. in Israel and Austria and now perhaps Hungary as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317143428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317143429	We have had the opportunity to do so today, you might say. And we have also been involved in expressing criticism of the consideration of an established cooperation with Israel on the purchase of vaccines, just as we are also critical of the fact that there could not be a majority in the European Union to agree to ask the WHO to suspend the patents on vaccines, because we do believe that this can make sense. I have seen others thinking that it is not so good for the way the market works. I think that could be the case here, where you have actually posted a lot of billions of dollars in research and production.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317143507	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Stinus Lindgreen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317143528	Thank you for that and thank you very much to the Enhedslisten for raising a very important agenda. It is hard to say many positive words about the coronapandemic, but I have to point out how impressive it is, after all, that in less than a year, from the world's first time, we have been faced with a new virus, we have developed up to several active vaccines. It is a fantastic achievement and it also shows how far we can go with science, international cohesion and public-private cooperation. However, it has also shown for everyone that vaccine development is an extremely complicated process that requires specialised knowledge, biological insights and advanced facilities. It has also shown that vaccine is not one thing. These are very different approaches and therefore also very different requirements for both knowledge and production. It is, as has been said several times, popularly said not a simple baking recipe that you can simply move from one factory to another. It takes time, resources, knowledge and technology, and that also fails in several cases. We have also seen this during the coronapandemic here, where some potential vaccine candidates have been abandoned deep into the process. There is a great risk in developing vaccines, and there is a risk of wasting even very large sums of money, but that is how research works. This is not just a small but a large, well-established company which, after all, had to give up their vaccine dreams. It has also become clear to everyone that vaccines are an essential part of the solution to get us out of the epidemic. This is true today, but it also applies to future epidemics. It is therefore also clear that the national vaccine strategy is a matter in which the Folketing should be involved. In the current situation, no one knows whether we will need revaccination or protection against new variants. But the problem goes further than that. We must ensure both the development and production of vaccines, not only in Denmark, but internationally, and not only in relation to corona, but also in relation to still unknown diseases. No one can know what the future holds, what technology turns out to be the right one, what knowledge is the decisive one, or what form of production is the right one. Pandemics are by their very nature cross-border and we cannot and must not have facilities in Denmark for all possible scenarios. Instead, we need to think internationally in cooperation. We must ensure the overview of facilities for all parts of production from development to production to sterile filling, so that we know capacity and bottlenecks. This is the only way we can be prepared for the next time we find ourselves in a similar situation, so that we can get started faster and more focused. And we have seen here how public-private cooperation can really boost development for the benefit of all. In my view, it is quite obvious to focus on European cooperation, where we can already see a great deal of vaccine production. I think it is clear to everyone that the common European strategy has not been entirely without problems, but I do not see how we would have stood better by standing alone. In everyone's fight against everyone in the middle of a cross-border pandemic, we all lose. Instead, we must learn from both victories and failures how to ensure an optimal system next time. That must be the goal. That is precisely why I am also surprised that the Prime Minister chose to go to Israel recently. I fully understand and I fully share the Prime Minister's ambition to secure as many vaccines as possible for the Danish population. This is a crucial part of our fight against corona. Much has already been said about timing, the Israeli election campaign and foreign policy signals. I would just like to highlight two points. Firstly, I find it misleading to call them world champions in vaccines, all the time that they have not developed a single vaccine against corona. Secondly, and more importantly, there is the signal sent to the European Union and our joint efforts by choosing to go alone. We have come astoundingly far in the development of vaccines and in the fight against corona. This shows the strength of international cooperation, public-private cooperation and support for research and development. That is the path we must take in the future too. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317143940	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I can therefore welcome the next rapporteur and that is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Welcome to Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317144010	First of all, thank you for raising this debate on vaccines and international cooperation. This is incredibly important when we are in a global health crisis. Some have said today that the market has not solved the task and that the glass is half empty. On the other hand, I would say that the glass is more than half full. A year ago, almost no one thought that vaccines would be our way out of the corona crisis, on the contrary. It was estimated that it would take at least 2 years to develop a new treatment, for it usually takes. And it also usually costs up to 1 billion. kr. It is not just free research that is put into a production plant, as perhaps a party in this Chamber believes. It is, in fact, a major investment that companies make. It was also a common strategy and risk-sharing that we took in the European Union and with companies, namely to pre-pay the purchase of vaccines in order to share precisely the risk of developing vaccines at a very high rate. Now we are a year later, and almost 600,000 Danes have been vaccinated, and everyone has been vaccinated on 25.7. It won't be very long. And before we are finished, we have probably developed a coronapass or a green card in the European Union so that we can open up our business tours, to tourism, and so that we can get our internal market going. Our starting point has always been that we are opposed to public vaccine production. On the other hand, as we are doing today, we should work within the framework of the European Union, for we have succeeded in uniting in purchasing vaccines and distributing them among us. It is all in very close dialogue with the absolutely best private companies in this area. We have just prepaid and produced vaccines at very high speed. The companies have also shown during the coronatide that it can be rolled out on a large scale, and we have close public-private cooperation. It's not a either-or-it's a public-private partnership. This is something we can actually be proud of in Denmark. But we are not in favour of public production. And several organizations, including: Pharmadanmark, Novo Nordisk and the pharmaceutical industry also warn against national vaccine production and call it unrealistic. We must remember that there was a reason why the previous vaccine production in Denmark did not run around. It was loss-making and not enough supplies were delivered. But what came of the journey to Israel? That is actually what we are discussing. It should be enhanced cooperation and to support development and research. This is certainly relevant, but it can also be done within the framework of the European Union, because it is already happening. Research is very long-term, which is why we in the Conservative People's Party are surprised that the Prime Minister had to leave over sticks and stones while the crisis raged and discussions were under way with the various party leaders. But the Prime Minister was impatient, she explained before. But research takes a long time, and you didn't come home with vaccines. That's why it's a little contradictory for you to go. Nor do I believe that the other EU countries are even patient and take their time. Right now, three countries of the European Union are looking at, for example. the vaccine from Russia and to accelerate vaccine production. It must, of course, be EMA-approved. This was precisely what was adopted in the European Union in the form of new five points, in other words how we can speed up vaccine production and cooperation in the European Union. We are in favour of it already. Everyone's experimenting. That is why it was necessary to move faster, both on the vaccine authorisation from the data and also in relation to the purchase of new vaccines • 300 million doses. So we would like to say that with this we are in favour of supporting the text from the Left that we need to work together on vaccine production, also because it is part of critical infrastructure. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317144418	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. Could the rapporteur please prepare for the next rapporteur? The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317144443	Thank you for the floor. Sometimes I think it is very good that the parties take a step back and ask themselves: why do we exist? At least I did that myself when I saw the call for this inquiry debate, and I thought it was a really good exercise. It was clarifying, enlightening, at least for myself. The Liberal Alliance exists first and foremost to protect citizens from politics and politicians. Of course, we believe that there must be law and order, and we believe that there must be sensible regulation in many cases. We believe that there must be public service which is roughly in line with the service we have today. But we also believe that the Folketing has come out of control on some points. From 1989 to 2019 the amount of rules in Denmark grew from 7.2 million words to 20.9 million words. This is an increase of almost 200 per cent, 189 per cent. to be exact. After all, this increases the number of employees who have to administer the rules. It plagues the lives of our citizens, and there are some American research results that suggest that it also dampens economic growth, so that it makes society poorer. That is why the Folketing, and I had almost said for everything in the world, must not interfere in how vaccines are produced or how they are distributed. Let me quote Svend Auken. He said: A camel is an attempt to draw a horse by a conciliation circle. These are very, very wise words: A camel is an attempt to draw a horse done by a conciliation circle. If the Folketing were to produce and distribute vaccines, it would very quickly look like infrastructure policy: could it not be a good idea with a railway in my constituency or a bypass in my constituency or a bay on the road so that it came closer to the city where I live? Or it will be like social policy: those who have the highest voices are given the greatest attention, and those who suffer in silence or miss friends in this house are allowed to continue to suffer in silence. That is why it is no good if vaccine policy is similar to transport policy, nor is it helpful if it is similar to social policy, but it will certainly happen if the Folketing starts to interfere too much. So vaccine policy should preferably be organized by rational and professional people, and therefore it is necessary that we protect citizens against the Folketing, I would have liked to have said. Of course, I do not think it is to tighten it up, but when vaccine policy is to be organised by rational and professional people, it is best that we have some experts to organise it, and from the political level we then come and ask questions to the experts and finally approve the result of it. We have our own proposal for adoption. I have not coordinated it with the Social Democratic Party, but you are welcome to join it, and I will read it out now: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the vaccine issue is of the utmost importance. Denmark must have access to as many vaccines as possible as soon as possible until the population has been vaccinated. The Danish Parliament expects the wish to be handled professionally and with the highest professional expertise, and that ideological considerations about public or private production are ignored in the process. • V 90). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317144841	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317144846	Then we succeeded, sir. Henrik Dahl. I had decided that I would not ask any more questions today, but this was still so clear a call for a little ideological discussion that I could not help myself. So I guess the mission has succeeded in that way, sir. Henrik Dahl. It is in relation to the fact that you have to leave everything to the market and say that it is best just to leave it to experts. Now it is the case that one and a half million people die every year from a disease called tuberculosis, a disease which can actually be cured and which, in fact, there is a vaccine that was developed 90 years ago, the Calmette vaccine. And since then, no new vaccine has actually arrived. Today it is the case that if you get multi-resistant tuberculosis, you have to take 12 pills, I think it is, for a year, and one of the side effects is that you become blind by it is kind of a familiar side effect. And the reason why no new vaccine has been developed is that it is poor people who die of tuberculosis. It is people who live in sub-Saharan Africa, it is people who live in Eastern Europe, it is a non-bought audience, and therefore there is no interest in developing a vaccine. Mr. Mr Dahl. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Dahl on his excellent report. And how would the market solve it if there isn't a strong audience?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317145006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317145008	In other words, the vaccine is also being developed for narrow diseases, I had almost said, and that is typical of course in countries where you have an effective health care system. I shall be the first to recognise that there are market failures, or what to say, because there are rare diseases or people's diseases which are of no interest to anyone. However, in general terms, I believe that this also has to do with the fact that there are also bad governments, and that it is therefore in countries that are exposed to bad governments or where the citizens are exposed to bad governments that these things happen. What has happened in the occupied territories in relation to Israel is, of course, that self-government has, in this way, taken care of health care in the self-government areas and has not provided vaccine for its own citizens. So there is also something about bad governance that plays a role.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317145107	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317145108	A narrow disease. The world's most deadly infectious disease, tuberculosis, can hardly be described as a narrow disease. It is a disease that kills one and a half million people a year, a disease that the WHO, as Doctors without Borders, all of which point to as the greatest paradox in terms of the way we are developing vaccines today, that for 90 years a vaccine has not been developed in relation to it, because there is no economic interest in it, nor is there any relationship to many types of antibiotics. It is more than just a market error; it is a disaster that we are faced with such a disease and we deliberately close our eyes to it and say: Here we have no responsibility. We say that, knowing that it doesn't solve the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317145154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317145155	I am not an expert on tuberculosis, but if, unfortunately, tuberculosis is not a narrow disease, so many people suffer from tuberculosis, it is also strange that there is no market for cures. And then there has to be some explanation for the fact that, for some strange reason, there cannot be a market which I saw at the moment do not know.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317145217	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. Then there are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, and that also means that we are now through the rapporteur's line and that it is therefore time for the Minister of Health to be able to take the floor. And it's so good that the platform gets ready for that. Welcome to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317145243	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for an excellent debate. I have to say that I almost regret the fact that we had not managed to coordinate and discuss the discussion with Mr Beazley. Henrik Dahl, because I think it was a completely formidable text that was made there. Ideology and all this must, as it were, come second; what comes first must be to secure as many vaccines as possible and to secure it both in the short and long term. I guess that's what our work is all about. And I must also say in general terms to the debate here that I think it has quite well reflected that there is, in fact, a great, great desire among the parliamentary parties to take care of what we have, namely a great popular support and a demand to get those vaccines to Denmark. After all, very few countries are in the extremely good situation where people demand vaccines and will be so vaccinated. So we simply have here a jewel on which we must be so infinitely careful, and so it is so vital that we back up our health services and that we do what we can on all the fronts that are at all, to obtain vaccines that are safe and are approved and effective in the short term and that we also do what we can in the long term and do nothing but the result. For then we can ensure that we in Denmark and thus throughout the world are better equipped for what at least more and more experts are now talking about, i.e. that at some point there is uncertainty about the possibility that there might be a need for a revaccination with some adapted second generation vaccines. This is one of the things we have to prepare for, and once again it is quite typical of the corona that when it comes to exactly what to prepare for, exactly which vaccine, exactly what mutation, you can't say it, but that you can just say that there are some uncertainties out there, where you have to take into account that something is going to be difficult to deal with. So what we can do here to prepare ourselves and prepare ourselves for that situation is really important to us. We are currently in a situation where many countries in Europe are reporting out while we are sitting here, it is reported from several countries that they are in or on their way to a third wave. We are not in Denmark, we are not in Denmark, but there are more countries, both north of us and south of us, which now state clearly that they are shutting down, that they are shutting down heavily, also much stronger than we have done in Denmark so far, i.e. with curfew etc. There are also more countries and more cities in Europe, north of us and south of us, where they say directly to their people that they are really in a third wave. And there are also some countries that record infection records. That is the acute situation we are in, and that is why we simply have to do everything we can to get vaccines, because that is the only way to get them through, plus, of course, the public's support for the recommendations of our authorities, all the tests, all the tracing, all the other things we can do in our society, where we in Denmark, as it is now and here, are not in a third wave, and let us together fight to ensure that we do not get into it either. Because we've been hit a lot harder since we had the highest rates of infection and hospitalization in January, and let's get through safely the last few months here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317145628	Thank you to the Minister for Health, and then there are a few brief comments to the Minister for Health. Those who have asked for the floor will only have one brief comment in the light of the time available. The first to ask for a brief comment is Mrs Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317145639	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for Health. After all, we fully share the wish that we get through this well, bypassing a third wave. I'll tell you at a start. So I would say that this debate has been very much about the backwards: the journey to Israel, what we have seen as a lack of involvement in vaccine strategy. But I would really like to ask about what is forward-looking. Because we lack vaccines in the world; we do that both in Denmark right now, but we are going to do so both in Denmark and worldwide. It is not until 2024 that the world population appears to have been vaccinated, with the capacity that we now have. So there is a lack of immediate capacity, and therefore I would like to ask the government and the minister whether the government will help to throw public funds into the idea that we are developing a vaccine strategy and helping both Denmark and the global to produce more vaccines.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317145729	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317145730	I fully agree with the analysis, and the point is that the estimates that Mrs Villadsen mentions here are a best case scenario, because the situation is also that the vaccines that are being produced now are for the disease that we know now, but for the future mutations new vaccines must be made. So this race we're dealing with is one of humanity's greatest and most important tasks, and everything must be thrown into public, private, everything. And Denmark has, of course, thrown massive funds into both development and production. Denmark is one of the countries in the European Union that has bought most of the money we have said yes every time there has been a round of purchases. These are rounds of purchases where you ask the countries whether they will bid to support the development and production of vaccines, and Denmark has agreed to everything, and we will continue to do so. We will also continue to examine the Danish development. Can anything be done to further support it? We have already put in several larger sums of money, and it may well be appropriate to continue this course with the Danish Parliament's parties. And we are facing some rather major milestones now here in relation to the next levels of investigation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317145840	The next brief remark is to Mr. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317145843	Thank you for that and thank you for all the answers today. I have two questions for the Minister of Health. I have to be absolutely sure whether the Minister for Health is absolutely sure that the Ministry of Health could not support Bavarian Nordic's vaccine back in the summer of 2020 • whether it is quite true that there were some EU things that like prevented it. Is the Minister for Health quite sure that the fact that one was talking about some EU track could prevent Danish support? I just need to make sure that the Minister for Health is absolutely sure that it is true. The second question I have is: will the government comply with the proposal for adoption which the majority of the Danish Parliament will probably adopt here on Tuesday, namely to call the parties for negotiations on the current and future vaccine strategy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317145942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317145944	Thank you for those questions. Since I read the information history, I have asked my people to investigate the situation, and what I have been told in this connection is that on 21 July we received a notice from the Danish Medicines Agency that it had been informed that Adapt Vac had signed a licence agreement with Bavarian Nordic, and they were at that time on the European Commission's list of potential procurement options. There the Danish Medicines Agency then writes, and I quote: The possibility to reserve a vaccine quota at national level for Denmark from Adapt Vac is no longer present. This can now only be done through the EC procedure. It is there on July 21, and that was the quote from it. Then they also write: If the Commission should opt out of Bavarian Nordic in its further process, we will inform you, and possibly national negotiations can then be reopened again. It happened then in September, when a new assessment came. And I would say, if I can reply to the second, with the permission of the President, that the government will, of course, abide by what the Folketing has to decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317150057	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317150059	Thank you for that, and thank you for the speech and positive statements, both in terms of the scale of the problem and also in terms of the fact that, of course, negotiations are being convened. I think that's wise. But just to completely understand it, as Mr. Martin Geertsen also refers to the relationship between the vaccine at the University of Copenhagen and the approach to the European Union, i.e. whether there were any legal obstacles to agreeing to support the vaccine at the KD, because, as I understood, and as I understood the article in Information, the Commission has refused to do so, but that there was a possibility that it could be supported, but that there was a political reason why it would not be supported, so I would just like to hear the Minister's answer as to whether there were legal obstacles to the agreements that lie there, that one could not agree to support the vaccine from the University of Copenhagen, or whether it was a political decision that one would not go in to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317150203	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317150205	Of course, the responsibility for the decisions that have been taken lies with me. It is on the recommendation of our Medicines Agency, which wrote on 21 July, that this situation existed. There they wrote directly to us that any national negotiations would have to wait for clarification here. That was their assessment to us, and it is they who advise us on the legal aspect too. I would very much like to explain the details of the legal specifications, but I think that we will have to do so in writing, because it will also require our lawyers in the ministry and the board to come up with assessments of this. And to supplement: It is by no means definite that it will not be possible for Denmark to support the next levels of testing of these vaccines, and we have supported with research. We are faced with some milestones here, just as I mentioned before for Mai Villadsen, and if there is an opportunity and if it makes sense, we will return to the Folketing and discuss with the parties of the Folketing whether we should go further along this path, and I have noted, here today too, that the Folketing has expressed an interest precisely in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317150314	Then there is room for the last brief remark, and that is for Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317150319	I have to sum up my colleagues' questions about precisely the vaccine that has been researched and produced in Denmark, in relation to when it was that they went in and tried to make an agreement, but I think we need to have something in writing: a statement with dates when it was the vaccine itself Adapt, when it was Bavarian Nordic and when they were on the list of companies with which the EU negotiated. So we have to have a time perspective on when we did what, and I hope we can get that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317150358	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317150358-2	We'll be able to deliver that easily. In this case too, we have had one interest and only one, and that is that if there is something we can investigate or do, if there is a board that tells us that there is something interesting here and here you can do something, or if we get something to know through the EU or other colleagues or other countries we drill out to the bottom and go through. So we are on all fronts, and we have to be on all fronts. Experience alone with the purchasing strategy, the Danish, through the EU, shows this too. Here we have agreed to all the offers we have received and made, even if we reached 5 million doses, 10 million doses, 15 million doses and 20 million doses. Denmark has suffered less than 6 million inhabitants, and you might ask whether you really should make prior agreements on purchases, and indeed we should, and it was very, very wise that we did so, and that we did not, as unfortunately some other countries have done, say: let us hold back a little. We have not done that in Denmark, and it now turns out to have been incredibly good, because there is what we feared, namely delivery problems, and therefore we simply have to play on all horses that are in the race, and we also have to invent some along the way, and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317150502	Thank you very much to the Minister for Health. Then there is no room for further brief remarks to the Minister for Health, and that is why the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Tuesday 23 March 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317150517	Then I shall inform you that Question No 1 will be answered in writing.' 3 (pm. No. S 1109) for the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply, by Mr. Torsten Gejl (ALT) is deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. At the same time, I should like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, has been taken over by the President-in-Office of the Council. 11 No. S 1120) to the Minister for Children and Education, by Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard (V), is deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. I should also like to inform you that there has been an addition to the questioner, Mr President. Karsten Lauritzen (V), on question No. 26 and 27 (pm. No. S 1103 and S 1104) to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317150548	The first question is to the Foreign Minister of Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317150557	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317150559	Thank you very much, President. Will the Foreign Minister work to ensure that serious and systematic violations of human rights, including freedom of religion, will have consequences for our partner countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317150611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317150612	Thank you, and thank you to the questioner for that question. The government attaches great importance to preventing and combating serious and systematic violations of human rights, and this also applies when the abuses are directed against freedom of religion and belief. As a member of the UN Human Rights Council, we have helped to point out serious human rights violations, including in partner countries. To take a topical example, we have denounced the serious human rights violations in Myanmar and helped to adopt a mechanism for collecting and handling evidence for possible future trials on abuses. In the EU Council of Ministers, we have been working for the recent adoption of sanctions against Myanmar. At EU level, we have the EU's human rights dialogues with individual countries, but also the geographical sanctions regimes, and, most recently, with the new global human rights sanctions regime, we have thus strengthened our ability to put pressure on the governments that commit violations. We also have an important dialogue on human rights with the governments of many of the countries where we are represented. It is precisely in the presence that we have the greatest opportunity to engage in critical dialogue, and especially in those countries where respect for human rights is not always respected, that is how we can make a real difference. In all our partner countries, we have a close and critical dialogue with the authorities on human rights, democracy and freedom of religion, and in those countries where dialogue with the government is difficult, our development aid largely bypasses the government through support for civil society in the country. Many of our civil society partners are actively working on precisely protecting human rights for the vulnerable and persecuted, and therefore it is little use to threaten to withdraw from the assistance. This will primarily affect those who are already poor and vulnerable. And then, of course, we need to see that aid is also of benefit to minorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317150806	Thank you. And then it is the questioner for more detailed questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317150807	Thank you for that, and great respect for the government in relation to the efforts in Myanmar, where a small Muslim minority is being persecuted. What we have experienced is that Christians persecuted are filling up more and more. Open Doors has published the report "World Watch List 2021" which shows that the figure is just increasing, compared to how dangerous it can be to be a Christian, especially in the Middle Eastern countries. As the Minister also mentioned, Denmark has a membership in the UN Human Rights Council, where we have among other things. We have committed ourselves to promoting a better understanding and implementation of freedom of belief and religion, and I can only say that among the partner countries we have Nigeria, which is no. 12 on the list of countries where it is most dangerous to be a Christian • Saudi Arabia is no. 13, Turkey is no. 36. In view of that, why on earth has the Minister not used that membership and the obligations to ensure that the cooperation countries, Saudi Arabia, Nigeria and Turkey in particular, receive some appeals or recommendations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317150934	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317150935	Thank you to Mrs Hjermind Dencker for her question. We fully share the desire and need to protect religious freedom and freedom of religion, and there are great concerns about it around the world. For example: After all, Denmark has led the UN Human Rights Council, where we are now a member, for a regional speech on the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia. We had more than 30 other countries in a speech to point out human rights violations. And as both of us are fully aware, freedom of religion and belief is a human right that must be respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151013	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151015	The Minister also mentioned this: if we now withdraw, that is to say if we withdraw aid to some countries, I suppose the Minister is thinking of aid to developing countries here, but the Minister mentioned the phrase: if we withdraw aid to some countries, we may risk even more damage to the poor. And what is the paradox here is whether we should withdraw support for, for example. Afghanistan, which is No. 2 on the list, which we give 100 million. kr. In the case of aid for development, the amount of the aid per year shall be increased annually. Should we withdraw the support to send a strong signal on this? Or should we via the 100 million. kr. to help finance the violations that are taking place? That is the real dilemma.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151101	I would like to knock a stake through the idea that we should fund and legitimise violations in Afghanistan. On the contrary, when we are in Afghanistan, it is also to promote human rights, not least the rights of girls and women. And fortunately, we have seen progress not only in relation to the Danish effort, but also in relation to our close allies in the fight for among others. Girls' rights, access to school, protection, etc. The fact that the situation is not yet very good in Afghanistan is obvious to everyone, but I can guarantee the questioner that if we had not been there, the situation would have been even worse, and I believe that many of us bear in mind with horror the Taliban regime which carried out some of the most brutal human rights violations imaginable.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151143	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151144	It's about what kind of signal we'd like to send with this. Will we send out a signal saying: this is completely unacceptable and we will not support you at all as long as you do not control the persecuted Christians as long as you do not protect Christians better, and as long as you have not managed it with freedom of faith and religion? That is a strong signal to send out, and it is not the first time we have done so; the whole world community did so when there was apartheid in South Africa, where they were also excluded. That's something we can easily do, so send this strong signal. Does the Minister not agree that it could be strong if we were more countries to join together, especially through the UN Human Rights Council?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151226	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151227	I hope the questioner agrees with me that sending out a strong signal is precisely that human rights are being raised and that the human rights situation in the countries in which we are already present improves. If we just pull out and turn our backs and leave it all in a chaos of human rights violations and abuses, then we can at least be sure of only one thing, and that is that the very people and the groups, that is, those who desperately seek freedom of belief and religion, are the ones we would fail. So I fully agree that we must say no, but we must also help the people whom we say no to help, and not just turn our backs on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151304	Thank you. The question has been answered and thanks to Mrs Hjermind Dencker from the Danish People's Party. We shall continue with questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, this time asked by Mr Gundelach. Peter Juel-Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151321	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151322	Thank you for that, President. What will the Foreign Minister do to ensure that transit through Sweden continues to be possible to Bornholm, for example? through a firm legal agreement with Sweden?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151339	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151340	Thank you, sir. Peter Juel-Jensen, who asks me what I will do to ensure that transit through Sweden to Bornholm continues to be possible, for example. by concluding a permanent legal agreement with Sweden. Let me start by stating that today we have already solved many of the challenges that were previously with the transit through Sweden to Bornholm. Our dialogue with the Swedish authorities has helped to open up general transit to Bornholm. We will, of course, continue this dialogue and have continued to do so. I assume that the question is primarily how we can guarantee transit through Sweden to Bornholm in the future. Unfortunately, it is not inconceivable that the Covid-19 may require restrictions to be tightened in the future. The government believes it would be a clear advantage with a more firm agreement on smooth transit to and from Bornholm and, if possible, in the form of a transport corridor. This is an important topic for the government as a whole and for me as a foreign minister, and also as a Bornholmer, and that is also why I, together with the relevant Danish authorities, will discuss what concrete opportunities there are for us to ensure the transit to and from Bornholm in the long term, and the various solutions we will pursue in dialogue with the relevant Swedish authorities. In the end, and the questioner knows very well, it is obviously Sweden itself that decides which entry restrictions apply to Sweden, just as we in Denmark decide on entry restrictions and border restrictions concerning Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151507	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151509	Thank you, Minister. This is not the first time we have been standing here; we have been standing here once before. It's kind of like you bought a home at the end of a long road, but when you move in and need to use your home, you find out you don't have the right of way. That's actually the feeling you have as a Bornholmer. The Danish Parliament has made an agreement on this, and there is good sense in having to go to and from Bornholm, one must via Sweden. You just forgot to secure the right of way. So now that we are standing here again, Minister, is it as if we would like at some point to examine the possibility of some kind of legal agreement with the Swedes, but when will the Minister then put on his jacket and put on his work clothes and start a debate with the Swedish Government?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151556	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151557	First of all, I can fully recall the feeling, perhaps also as a Bornholmer, which Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen describes here. We must also remember that the government has not been sitting on its hands, because we have done a great deal of running and in close dialogue, including with Bornholm, in order to solve the problems that exist. For example, when Sweden introduced an entry ban in December, there were no exceptions, either for Bornholmers or for the general transit to Bornholm, but there are today, and that is among other things. the government's dialogue with Sweden, which has helped to ensure these relaxations. And the government is therefore working to ensure that in future there will also be as good solutions as possible for the transit to and from Bornholm. That is our objective, and I understand the questioner is also supporting the government in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151640	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151641	There is no doubt that the best solution will be to have lasting solutions. Of course, a government must act on the short track when you are being challenged, but I just want to get started. After all, the Minister and I have been in Parliament together for many years, and I think we both remember that back in 2007 the then Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen took a trip to Berlin and spoke to her German colleague Angela Merkel. There was agreement on some guidelines, an agreement that a bridge should be built over Fehmarn, and then you went home. You just put a few names on a piece of paper, then you came home, and then the respective parliaments, the professional ministers, took over and got an agreement made and we're actually building that bridge. We have to make some sort of agreement to get started, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151729	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151730	Well, I can assure the questioner that we are continuously in dialogue with the Swedish authorities about the Swedish entry restrictions and the transit to Bornholm. In that dialogue, of course, we also raise the need to ensure a smooth transit to and from Bornholm on a permanent basis, and it takes place in several tracks, including at ministerial level, but also authority to authority. I think that in this coronatide that we are in, we all wish there were no need for such restrictions or that such restrictions were imposed. Now they are just there, and we have a dialogue with Sweden to find a solution, because of course we would like to find a solution for the Bornholmers as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151807	Then it's mr. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151808	So let me be very brief: has the Foreign Minister proposed Sweden a definite agreement on a transport corridor? Have you asked your Swedish colleague for one of these?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151824	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151825	We have been in dialogue with the Swedish authorities. It is not just myself as a foreign minister, but also the responsible Danish authorities.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I have also raised this issue with my colleague and also with others in my dialogue with Sweden, because I would like to find a solution to this problem and preferably, as I say, a transport corridor that would solve it in the longer term and in the situation we are in.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151900	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and to Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen. The question has been answered. We move on to the next question (pm. No. S 1111). It is for the Minister of Health, and it is asked by Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151916	Here you go to Mrs Mette Thiesen to read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151932	Thank you. How does the Minister feel about many children and young people suffering because the government and its support parties are refusing them to go back to school?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317151943	Thank you very much for that question. There is no doubt at all that it is associated with a large, great deprivation for both children and of course also for their teachers that the teaching has had to take place virtually for a very long period of time. That is also why the very first thing we started to open up again was precisely the smallest classes, and it was after the recommendation of this group of experts who are precisely assessing well-being and health, but also the economy and other things it is an important group to bring inside. It was not just because we thought it was right politically. So those were the first ones we opened up to. Now there are also large parts of Denmark, not all of Denmark, but large parts of Denmark, opened up to the graduates, as well as some flexible models have been found for meeting outdoors, where there is much less infection. This applies to pupils in intermediate classes. My hope is that we can reach a broad political agreement within a few days when we can have as many children as possible back to school for as long as possible after Easter. Because there is no doubt that this is a youth life in which we have to say that the children and very young people we are dealing with need their comrades and their teachers. So this is a really important priority, and I am very, very pleased that there is a total political consensus that that is what must be our first priority. While that is happening and while those negotiations are taking place, I too, not to paint the hell on the wall, need to point out that, unfortunately, there are countries around us now, both north of us and south of us, who are experiencing new infectious records which, while we are standing here talking, are reporting that they are entering or even in a third wave and are shutting down violently. That is the reason why we have to do this carefully so that we do not go into a devastating and deadly third wave.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317152152	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317152153	Thank you for your answer. Now it is the case that the government and its support parties, if they wanted to, could allow all children and young people to go back to school now. If you really want to help the many children and young people who feel depressed, you actually have the opportunity to do so, but you do not use it. It is sufficient to allow the 5.-8. classes to receive one day a week outdoor training. The government and the support parties celebrate it as a great victory, but it is of course comical, and if it were not so tragic and a failure of dimensions, one would laugh at it in pure impotence. Specialists say that more children and young people have done self-harm, that there is a marked increase in anxiety and that more children and young people feel lonely. My oldest son, in fifth grade, is exposed to the iron grip of government and support parties. He just wants to go to school like that. Why does the government, which has power, give children, young people and parents the impression that you want everyone back to school when you don't just decide?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317152256	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317152258	We only have one wish, and that is that we have to get through this pandemic well and safely, and we have to get the children back to school as soon as possible. When we couldn't do it last month or just do it with a fingertips, it's because according to the estimates provided to us by our experts, of what it will mean for the increase in infection, there are some things that make you have to be careful about this. After all, we need to get through this in a sound and secure way so that we avoid any further major increase in infection. That is the reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317152335	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317152336	The infection rates are low, they have been for a long time, and if an outbreak of infection occurs, you can shut down quickly and effectively locally. Schools and municipalities in several parts of the country have shown that this can be done. Pediatrician and chairman of the Danish Paediatric Society Klaus Birkelund Johansen has stated that schools are not running the epidemic and that children are not being infected in institution or school, but by parents at home. Scientist Christian Kanstrup Holm has said that there is evidence that it is no use to shut schools down. What does the Minister think about the statements of the two experts?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317152409	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317152409-2	What we can see, then, is that we now have really, really good Danish low levels of infection, despite the fact that the English variant represents 90 per cent. and drives our epidemic, just as there are probably other countries that do not have as good figures as we have similar situation in other countries, but they only have far more cases of infection, and you are now beginning to shut down significantly and drastically in many, many countries around us. Then it's a fact that since we opened up it was wise to do so there is now an increase among those in the very young target group who first came back to school. It's a fact.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317152452	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317152453	Head of Unit at the Statens Serum Institut Tyra Grove Krause said back in November, and I quote: "If you compare infection rates in Finland, where primary schools have been closed, and Sweden, where schools have been open throughout the epidemic, there is no difference in incidence for confirmed covid-19 cases in children aged 1 to 19 years. Does the Minister recognize that? Because if the Minister does not, then the Minister is contradicting the authorities, which he is leaning on. And if the Minister acknowledges the statement of the State Serum Institute, why haven't schools and colleges been opened long ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317152526	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317152527	Well, I do not know what is involved in such a debate here, but it seems that you want to draw a picture of this government having some sort of political desire to keep children at home from school. Why would we have that? We only have one desire to get them back to school. Why should we have any other goals? But what we can see is that since we were doing it and it was good that we were doing it, and I am not praising ourselves for it, but it was the right thing to do to get the smallest classes back to school, we can now trace that there is It is quite factual, and that is what the situation is. It is at a low level and we can deal with it, but that is the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317152609	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for Health and thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. The question has been answered. We move on to the next minister, who is the Minister for Transport, and to him Mr. Christian Juhl asks questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317152629	I just got confused by the fact that sir... Christian Juhl was sitting on the opposite side of the hall than usual. But here you go, sir. Christian Juhl to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317152632	It's to be ready when the President says start. Does the Minister of Transport agree that the arrest of 28 illegal Russian workers on the Fehmarn building calls for action by the Minister as the real owner because it exposes a serious problem of using social dumping by the developer Femern A/S and the Dutch consortium under the name Fehmarn Belt Contractors (FBC), which is responsible for the part of the project that is taking place on the water?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317152657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317152658	Thank you for the question. Let me start by emphasising that, of course, things need to be sorted out in state construction projects, and that is why I would just like to say, as the press has also shown, that I am very sorry about this matter, just like the questioner, because my view is that there must of course be proper pay and working conditions on the construction of the Fehmarn connection, and it is of course crucial that the construction of the Fehmarn Belt tunnel is carried out within the framework of legislation. That is why I am pleased that the authorities, in this case the immigration authorities and the police, have acted decisively. The developer has also supervised the case, and we have also involved the Attorney General, who has informed me of the progress of their statement, and in this it appears that this is a case which Femern A/S found to be unclear, and Femern A/S has therefore considered that there was insufficient grounds for stopping the work. However, as you know, this specific case has been passed on to the courts and their assessment, and therefore, in respect of the independence of the authorities and the courts, I will not go into the specific case further. However, I would like to respond to the more fundamental point, because yes, I would at least like to delve deeper into whether there is a need to do more to ensure proper conditions and to ensure that the law is complied with in connection with construction. Therefore, I will invite Femern A/S to a meeting where we can discuss whether the company needs additional tools or tools to control the work. I am particularly concerned about this matter, because it is a shadow of the huge gains that the Fehmarn Belt link will bring with it: the thousands of jobs on Lolland, the better rail links between Denmark and Germany, the shorter travel times and the visionaryness of building the tunnel. So again: Thank you very much for the question. I am also looking forward to discussing the matter in greater detail in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, to which the questioner has called me.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317152858	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317152858-2	I quote: "The work done for Femern A/S during the construction of the future fixed link over Femern Bælt must be carried out under ordered pay and working conditions. Femern A/ S, as a State-owned and socially responsible company, will ensure this by including a condition in the procurement documents requiring both contractors and their subcontractors to ensure that employees working in Denmark are guaranteed conditions no less favourable than those applicable, inter alia, under collective agreement for work of the same kind where the work is carried out. It was one of the predecessors of the Minister of Transport, Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen, who stated this here at the beginning of the project, on 6 November 2012. We have received an eight-page note showing that Femern A/S allowed 28 Russian sailors to continue their work, although it turned out that they were very likely working illegally. That is also what the Minister himself said just now. What is the Minister's view of allowing people to continue working, even though it is already known in February that this is probably illegal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153009	For the sake of completeness, it has to be said that the day before the questioner asked this question, I had already responded to the matter. In fact, 10 minutes after the police announced that 28 sailors had been arrested, I announced that I would request a statement immediately. That is the statement to which the author also refers. In concrete terms, there are now cases that run in the courts because seafarers have not recognised that they have infringed the law, and so I do not want to go into the specific issue in detail, but leave it to the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153047	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153047-2	Well, then I have to understand the Minister so that he thinks that Femern A/S should have acted earlier. If the Minister himself does not want to say so, I assume that is what he means. I have read it eight-page note, and I would like to ask another question. Would it not be more sensible for a Fehmarn Belt management, rather than considering whether it might be legal to let these sailors work, to spend time securing a work permit for them or to ensure that, even before they arrived in the country, things like this were clarified?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153122	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153123	As I have already indicated, I have invited Femern A/S to a meeting where I also intend to discuss with them whether they need additional tools. And I note that a unanimous conciliation group states that the conciliation circle stresses that the construction work with the Fehmarn Belt tunnel must be carried out within the framework of the legislation. Femern Bælt is an important project which will provide thousands of jobs at Lolland and elsewhere during the construction phase. The work must be carried out on Danish pay and working conditions, and there are clear agreements. And the conciliation circle looks forward to getting a briefing from the Minister, in terms of whether there is a need for additional tools to ensure that there is no doubt that this is happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153202	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153203	In fact, I asked if the Minister thought it was due diligence when one knew that it might be illegal, so not to have acted long before, even when Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen has said what he said when the project started. That is not good leadership in my opinion. We're right at the beginning of it, and we have the first two cases. There's just been a case of working hours and now a case of these sailors. I have to ask the Minister: what is he going to do to ensure that this is not as great a scandal as the Storstrøm Bridge has been for the last two years?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153236	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153237	This is a matter that I take very seriously, and that is also why, on the day before Mr. Christian Juhl asked his question, 10 minutes after the police announced that they had arrested the sailors, asked for a statement. That's exactly why I'm going to follow this all the way. As I said, I intend to convene a meeting of Femern A/S, and I am very pleased that the very, very broad conciliation group has also made a joint statement, in which they also stress the importance of ensuring orderly conditions in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153310	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you to the Minister for Transport, and thank you to Mr. Christian Juhl. The next question is to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, and that is what Mr. Carl Valentin of the SF, and co-author is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153331	Here you go, sir. Carl Valentin to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153335	Thank you. What is the Minister's position regarding the agricultural funds, which together distributed over 0.5 billion? kr. from the Treasury, only spent 3%. of the funds on projects with plant-based food in 2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153349	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153350	First of all, thank you to the Socialist People's Party and Mr. Carl Valentin to ask this relevant question. There is no doubt that with the plant-based it is something that is really accelerating now. There is huge focus on what is hugely interested in it, and many would like to choose it because they know it is healthier for their bodies, and it is also better for our climate. So there is no doubt that this is something that really needs to be focused on. So it also requires that we all contribute. This applies to industry, to suppliers and to consumers. Then there is this permeable levy fund, which is being asked about, i.e. the agricultural levy fund. It is the largest state-funded agricultural fund with an annual budget of 230 million. kr. In the autumn, the fund has indicated that they are planning to earmark almost half of the Fund's funds annually for climate projects up to 2030. So it is a step in the right direction, and we must hope that some of the plant-based will become part of it, and we must try to push for that. Plant-based foods are a key part of the climate agenda. I expect that to be the case when the board of the fund has to choose which projects it will support. Agriculture & Food released a strategy for the development of plant-based products in the autumn, and last year the Green Development and Demonstration Programme allocated nearly 29 million. kr. For development projects in the field of plant-based foods, therefore, another step in the right direction. It is essential that research efforts are set in motion if we want to achieve a green transition. We would like to work with the industry on this. In the 2021 Finance Act, we agreed that the plant-based diet should have a boost. It is also a step in the right direction. We will have to invest much more on the plant-based in the future, and we will also have to look much more at the plant-based and how we can lift it, think it in, etc. That is the future, and in that light too, to answer the question, it has probably been a little too small that has been a priority so far. We need to do better, and we are in the process.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153559	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153559-2	The latter, in particular, seems to me to be very important, that is to say, one is so clear in the spit that it is simply too low a priority for the plant-based today. As far as I am concerned, it is quite clear that what we are facing and what we need is essentially a food revolution, in other words a fundamental change in the way we eat and produce food, in which we will have a much more plant-based diet in the future. This applies both if we are to combat the climate crisis and the biodiversity crisis, and if we are to ensure a completely different land use, so that we do not use these huge areas for feed fields, which result in rainforest felling etc., but so that we make some less land-intensive and more climate-friendly and biodiversity-friendly food in the future. So the plant-based must have a central role. However, I would just like to hear from the Minister whether he can guarantee that there will be significant investments in the plant-based after the forthcoming agricultural negotiations, which are, of course, an obvious opportunity to invest in that agenda here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153705	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153706	It is quite obvious that there is a huge potential in the plant-based, and the citizens want it, because they know that it is good for their health and their health. In connection with the dietary advice we were fortunate to see that the Cancer Combat, the Diabetes Association, the Heart Association and now also the Arthritis Association have been out to say: If you want to live as healthy as possible, it is the plant-based that you need to invest more on, eat a little less meat and a little more plant-based. And then it has the side effect that it is good for the climate. So we're gonna do something here. The future is more of the plant-based, and there I can hear that most parties in the Folketing are in on it. Then we will not find a solution in the agricultural negotiations, where we will be more committed to the plant-based.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153748	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153748-2	Thank you for that answer. I think it's nice to have a food minister who takes the plant-based so seriously. I would therefore also like to hear whether the government, when it is being talked about so warmly, might come up with a return visit to the proposal to ensure that there is an offer of plant-based food in public kitchens, so that it is always easy to choose to eat green, as the Minister for Food, the Fight against Cancer and many others advocate. Will the Minister perhaps help to ensure that we can have such an offer in the public kitchens in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153815	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153816	After all, we have got off to a good start with the new dietary councils, and the Danes are taking them in. I saw yesterday a figure that showed that about 47 percent. of the Danes are thus prepared to eat much more plant-based. That's pretty good. I think it makes great sense in a municipal and regional election year to set this agenda and get municipal and regional council candidates to discuss it here and talk about: what can we do in our municipality? What can we do in our region? What are we doing to promote the plant-based in the interests of climate and health? This is true whether it is in a kindergarten or in a nursing home or in a hospital. Let us use that election year to set that agenda, rather than that we here at Christiansborg just try to determine from the top down how it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153859	Thank you. And then it's the enquirer, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153901	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister for some very good answers, which were that of course we should have focused on plant-based foods and therefore also on plant-based agriculture. The Minister cannot predict what the negotiations will end up in, because that is something we agree on, but the Minister can go to the table with an intention. And there I am actually curious to get a little closer to how we will also be investing in research and development funds for plant-based foods. Then the Minister agrees that it is also about moving money from animal production to the plant-based, that is that it is not about continuing business as usual and then finding some new things in relation to the plant-based, but actually also doing the exercise that we change focus, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317153951-2	There is no doubt that there is a huge potential for development here, but something is already working. On Monday I visited the company Organic Plant Protein, which is located at Hedensted, and they say: We do not need more development and innovation; we are therefore ready to make plant-based protein for human consumption, so that you can both eat much healthier and much more low-fat and climate-friendly. So there's something to get to grips with. It is a question of getting it formal in relation to also getting it involved in the food that is being produced. As to how we prioritise, this is something we have to negotiate in the agricultural negotiations. And I believe that in a situation where we have a huge export adventure, including in relation to our animal production, we must be careful not to start undermining it, because there is therefore a Chinese market that wants to buy our pork and other products. Should we not see if we could not have an export adventure too, perhaps in the course of a longer development there will be a change, but I do not think that the task is to reduce pig production. The task is to put turbo on the plant-based.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154109	Thank you. And then it's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154111	But I also know that the Minister is so sharp and wise that he knows that you can't bet a hundred percent all the time you have to make some choices. And that is actually what I am asking the Minister, in other words, whether the Minister will help to make the priorities that make it a priority, so that it is not only in relation to all the talented entrepreneurs we already have in plant-based foods, but that we get more with the whole of the breeding process, with the creation of jobs and so on. That requires more investment than has been seen, and since we are already spending a lot of money on it, could you imagine moving funds? Will the Minister be involved in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154143	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154144	However, I find that there is a fairly broad consensus in Denmark in relation to the future of the plant-based area, that it must be given priority and that it must also be given priority over today. However, I think that we should be careful when we already have a strength position on the world market, where we are not only some of those who are best at producing high quality pork, but also some of those who are best at making it climate-friendly, so we should not necessarily turn it down, but we should make sure that we are strong in the plant-based area as well. Then it may be that over a number of years of 10-15 years it will come on its own, also because demand is changing, but we should not pull the curtain away during a success.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154218	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin for the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154221	Can the Minister for Food not see a risk by making very large investments in the optimisation of animal production if, in the future, it is seen to be largely out-performed both by plant-based foods, but also by laboratory meat, in vitro milk production, etc.? So, isn't it a little dangerous to make very large investments in optimising animal production that might be out of line in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154248	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154248-2	Well, as Danish food minister, I am quite happy and proud that Denmark is being highlighted as one of the best agricultural countries to produce climate-friendly products, including when it comes to, for example. pig production. Well, we're way better than many others. And that is where we should be careful not to create a situation where we push pig production out of Denmark and then it can take place in another country where it emits far more CO2 But yes, there are probably some trends that move towards it being much more plant-based over the next 10-15 years, and there of course we must be awake and take due care.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154327	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin and Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist and the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. The next minister to be asked is the Minister for Children and Education, and the questioner is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154351	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154354	Thank you. Why does the Minister consider it reasonable that the 9th and 10th classes, as well as other graduates of youth and adult education in North Zealand and the metropolitan area, should not come back to receive education in the same way as their peers elsewhere in the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154411	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154412	The short answer is to say that it is because we are in a global pandemic. The longer answer is to say that we have a clear desire to avoid landing in a third wave, which we are watching over Europe right now, and that means keeping a balance in that we are opening as much as we can, but at a rate that, on the other hand, does not mean that we risk having to shut down what is already open because we are going somewhere with the infection where it cannot keep. And that's the balance we're trying to get reopened. This is a perfectly clear priority, as my colleague also said to you earlier in this Question Time today, by the government, and it has also been what the experts recommend, namely that we start by opening up schools, first to the small classes and then at the rate we are doing now, with the graduating classes and then the 5th-8th classes, which are now back 1 day a week.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154510	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154511	Thank you for your answer. That doesn't make my wonder any less. In the municipalities of Halsnæs, Frederikssund, Gribskov and Rudersdal, where graduate students are not allowed to return to school, the incidence rate is lower than or at the level of the incidence rate in municipalities such as Vejen, Herning, Hjørring and Frederikshavn, where graduate students may return to school. Why is that? And pediatrician and chairman of the Danish Paediatric Society Klaus Birkelund Johansen has said that schools are not running the epidemic, that children are not being infected in institution or school, but by parents at home. And researcher Christian Kanstrup Holm has said that there is evidence that it is no use to shut schools down. The infection rates are low, and they have been for a long time. If an outbreak of infection occurs, you can shut down quickly and effectively locally. Schools and municipalities in several parts of the country have shown that this can easily be done. What is the justification for keeping the graduates in North Zealand and the metropolitan area in an iron grip?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154610	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154611	Now, of course, we do not know how the negotiations that are taking place right now between the Prime Minister and all the party leaders end, and it is therefore a little premature to anticipate what that will be like, but one of the things that is at least being discussed is how to deal with the issue of regions and local areas. It was also different in the spring, depending on when in the reopening we were, and it is possible that it will be the same this time, as the negotiations will show. The reason why it is as it is now is that the position of the expert group was that we looked at the regions as a whole because there is commuting and that therefore it was taken at a slow pace and saw how it developed before taking the next move in the reopening.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154654	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154655	That must be a little unanswered. Specialists say that more children and young people are hurting themselves. There is a marked increase in requests for anxiety. And more children and young people feel lonely. I think it is deeply untenable that the 9th and 10th classes, as well as other graduates of youth and adult education in North Zealand and the metropolitan area, should not come back to receive education in the same way as elsewhere in the country. When does the Minister expect the government and the support parties to release the graduates in North Zealand and the metropolitan area from the iron grip?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154729	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154729-2	Well, I think we all think it's untenable. After all, none of us have asked for a global pandemic. And as to when we expect this to change, negotiations are taking place right now between the Prime Minister and all party leaders of the Danish Parliament, including the rapporteur's own party leader. I therefore believe that the questioner can answer the question as well as I can, since the negotiations are going on these days.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154755	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154755-2	Now that I have the Minister, I would like to ask about something that affects a little younger pupils. The Minister has previously urged that pupils be tested twice a week. Now I understand that the Minister also wants children to be involved in self-inoculation, i.e. to test themselves at school. Fortunately, it requires consent. Parents of children under the age of 15 must be informed about the testing and vouch for it. How do we prevent it from creating an A and B team among the students, so that no student risks being bullied or disfellowshipped because their parents choose something other than the majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154829	Thank you. It is so voluntary that the Minister will reply to that, because it is outside the question. But here you go to the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154834	Well, I really don't think it's much different from fluororinsing, which was also there when I went to school, where some were exempted from fluororinsing and others weren't. I think that we have laid down rules which have a very high degree of flexibility in that it is parents who have to give consent if they are under 15 years of age. If you are over 15 years old, you have to give your own consent. As parents, you can choose that your child is PC-tested every time, which means that there is no child who can guess why the sidemate doesn't perform the nose test himself at school. It may just as well be because the parents have chosen that the child is tested somewhere else. So, immediately, the risk is actually greater in the case of fluororinsing than it is in the case of testing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154917	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for Children and Education and to Mrs Mette Thiesen for answering and putting this question. The next question is also for the Minister for Children and Education. It is by Mrs Anni Matthiesen, and co-questioner is Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154932	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154933	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that it is logical that the vast majority of the country's 5th-8th classes should only be exempt from those on Bornholm and other non-bridged islands... to return only to school one day a week, should he notice with outdoor teaching?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154952	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317154953	It's such a yes-no question. Yes, I think that is logical, and the President of the Left also thought so about the time when the agreement on this was reached. In fact, the President of the Left called for a flexible re-opening. That is to say, instead of it being such a one-or-a-half-time that either you came back full-time, or you didn't come back at all. Then you went in and decided whether it was possible to come back for a few days; that was the wording of the Left President. Of course, we have listened to this, that is to say the idea of making it flexible. There are also other parties who have beaten the drum for one to have to, and that it was simply said that the misfortune among the 5th-8th classes is too great. This means that the tools that can be used should be used. And in this context it became possible to open up to 1 day a week, where the children could come back and get that feeling of community, which I think a very large part of those who are miserable simply lack and miss. Of course, I'd rather have them back full time or in half time... but now it was then 1 day, as the health authorities recommended, and I certainly think that's better than nothing. I think young people really benefit from coming back and seeing their comrades, even if it's less than what we'd want.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317155111	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317155112	At any rate, I believe that if we heard yesterday during Question Time with the Prime Minister, the President of the Left, that there was no doubt that the President of the Left really wants all pupils back now, of course also in flexible ways. But as the solution is right now, when it is called 1 day a week, I would like to ask the Minister whether there are any medical calculations behind it that it is only 1 day a week.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317155144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317155144-2	Well, I would recommend that you take everything that is about health calculations, either with the authorities or with the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317155150	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317155154	I could hear that I didn't get an answer to that. I assume the Minister for Children and Education has been involved in these things. After all, the Minister for Children and Education said a moment ago that it was on the basis of medical information that that decision was made. But can the Minister not see that there will be a huge backlog for these children if we do nothing quickly, i.e. both a professional backlog, but also a social backlog for that matter? And I would like to ask the Minister: what is the Minister going to do to help these children back every day of the week?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317155236	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317155237	The questioner asks whether I can see, as a minister, that there is a professional and social gap. To that I would just like to say yes with three exclamation marks after that. I find it incredibly unhappy that children and young people have been hit, as are the rest of us, by the global pandemic; but this is especially true of children and young people who are at a time of life when a foundation is being laid, both in terms of learning and in terms of social life. I think that is a huge problem. We have jointly made an agreement to look at the professional and social gap, and we have made an agreement with each other on the allocation of significant amounts to the area as well. I believe that we are looking into a long process of dealing with both the professional gaps that may have arisen in the individual student, but also to rebuild the community that they have missed in this period.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317155325	Thank you. Then it's Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby as a co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317155335	Thank you. We agreed that we were a social bubble over here in terms of despriting; we have office right next to each other. I would actually like to ask the Minister for Children and Education the illogical question of the fact that the 5.-8. classes can only come back four times a month outdoors when, in this way, the associations have been allowed to meet 25 people outdoors without having any regulatory mechanism or a maximum for that. So why is it that the minister and the government do not have faith in our schools if they consider that the 7th classes could just as well meet every day outdoors? Then why can't it be done? In other words, if the government does not want to open up the schools to the full as we would like in the Left, why not give them the same degree of freedom that we have given to our associations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317155420	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317155422	That's the same answer we have to give to the questions about why one can when the other can't. That's because we can't do it all at once. It is the total amount of activity involved here and therefore the rules are designed in such a way that the schools can now have them in the 5th-8th class back 1 day a week. Fortunately, some leisure activities are so open; I think that children and young people actually benefit from that, so that in this situation they can get out of their way. So I'm really glad it's possible. When the same freedoms are not given across the various things, it is because it is the total amount that poses the problem in relation to the fact that the infection can increase too much. So that's why it's arranged the way it is now. There should be no doubt that I think we all wanted everything to be just back to normal. I have not yet heard of anyone who thought it was the most amazing way of designing the globe, i.e. knowing that there is a pandemic, and then we all feel much better. On the contrary, I think that we are all very tired of this. And I think that, especially when we look at children and young people, there is a desire for • and this has been all the way through, by the way, from our parties together that the schools stand first.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317155529	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317155531	Yeah, and thanks for that. But with all due respect, Minister, since we got the 0-4 classes back, the number of people in Denmark has just fallen. Well, the latest figures that have just been published show that we now have less than 200 inlaid. So it is not the case that the fact that we have taken the small students back has created an explosion and a growth in the number of inmates in Denmark. So does the Minister not think that the argument we have heard about basics since before Christmas and should then listen to again today, that one should look at the overall picture, sounds a little hollow, given that ever since we started opening up to schools, the overall picture has actually been that there are fewer people in the hospital and that we have actually managed the epidemic? So why is it that the government won't put our kids first and let the 5th-8th classes come back more?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317155618	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317155620	Well, luckily, the infection rates are still really low. What we were recommended by the health authorities was not to go too fast, but to see what the effects of it were. And it turns out, fortunately, that the effect is still relatively low levels of infection. That is very good, and that is why we have called the party leaders for discussions on how we can continue reopening. Fortunately, then, we are in the situation where the infection rates are good.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317155649	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Anni Mattiesen's last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317155651	It may be that the government has been recommended not to go too fast. I think we can all agree on that. But then you can discuss what it is to move too quickly. I would really like to make it clear that we in the Left believe that things are going too slowly. That is actually why we are trying to exert pressure, and I actually think the Minister, if she looks at the agenda today, can see that there are a lot of people asking questions about that. And that's because we're nervous about our kids and our kids. So, Minister, why are we not giving the same freedoms that have been given to the outdoor associations to the school children in the 5.-8th grade?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317155731	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317155733	I really think that was the same thing I answered just now, and the answer does not change much by being repeated. But that's because it's the total amount of infection we're looking at. That's why we've had this conversation a lot of times along the way, if one and if the other and the third, and in this situation there's room for a certain amount of opening. It has been very important to us that schools should come first. They have arrived, and so have leisure activities been opened up, and I do not think we should underestimate how positive it is for children and young people that they have the opportunity to do some things in their spare time too, outdoors and with the restrictions that exist. But, of course, we have to take the steps out there in a way in which we do not risk having to close all things again. Because I think the toughest situation for children and young people across the generation will be if we are going to shut down the 0-4 classes again and send the graduates home. So we have to keep a balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317155829	Thank you to the questioner. The next question is also for the Minister for Children and Education, and that is by Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317155843	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317155845	Thank you, sir. President. Does the Minister think that it is reasonable for a bricklayer to train himself as a bricklayer without having a bricklayer in his hand and for all other young people in vocational training, which is the consequence of the government's re-opening plan, where the vocational school pupils, who need to get back to school and get the materials into their hands, are forgotten?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317155906	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317155907	Thank you for that question. If, like the first part of the question, you take the Minister's view that it is reasonable, then I must not just say: no, I do not! Well, I mean, this is an incredibly difficult situation for our youth generation. It's some basic skills they need to get in place at this time of life. Everyone else has been given the opportunity when we were young, that is to say to take our school education and our further education without the type of interruptions that the youth generation here in the coronatide has had to undergo. So I definitely don't think that's fair. Unfortunately, however, you cannot negotiate with the pandemic whether it is there or not, because then I think most politicians would have done what you could to get the pandemic away, but the world is not that easy. And I think there are some self-evident issues associated with vocational schools, and that is why I am very pleased that, in the agreement we have reached with the government's support parties on reopening, we have chosen to say that what we are looking at as the next one is vocational schools. I am also extremely grateful for the joint agreement we have reached with each other, in which the Left also participates, to look at the possibility of extending the various vocational training programmes. I think that has been quite appropriate. The Left has fought for it along the way, and I think you should be honored by that, because that is of course one of the reasons why those parts have also come to weigh as heavily as they are in the agreement we have made with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317160036	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317160038	Thank you. And thank you for the Minister's recognition of the agreement that we made, which ensures that we both keep our hands on the school internships that have got stuck, but that we also extend the education programmes. But there is no doubt that we in the Left do not think this is an optimal situation. Surely we would have preferred to have been able to open than to have to create a safety net for the students. This is also one of the questions we have asked from day one, namely: What about those in the certificate courses - that is, those in the vocational training courses on certificate courses? The Amu sector's certificate courses have been open all the time, so why should a student in a vocational training course who takes the same certificate course that may be taken on amu, not take it at the vocational school? We don't understand. Another element of the government's decisions in this area, which we have simply not understood at any time, is the fact that a great many of the vocational training courses have been designed more like jobs than they have been designed as school rooms. For example, I have. visited in EUC South in Sønderborg. In the carpenter area outside there is also something inside there is really good space, and you can stand and work without going and rubbing up each other. This is quite a different situation than if you have to calculate it as if you are sitting 28 students in a classroom. Nevertheless, the government has not been open to us allowing them to return to workshops which do not look like classrooms, but are more like jobs, and I simply do not understand that. I also have to say that we in the Left do not think it is right for different rules to actually be in place in this way, so as not to allow vocational school pupils to return, whereas people would have liked to be taken back to work or amu. We think this is really, really a pity, and it puts young people in vocational training in a situation where their training is going to take place at home in front of a computer screen instead of with the bricklayer or, in the case of the confectioner, the dryer in hand, or whatever materials you need in your hands to take a vocational training course. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister: when can they come back?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317160237	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317160239	Well, I kind of agree from one end to the next. The rapporteur makes it sound as if we on the side of the Social Democratic Party have fallen on our knees and wanted a pandemic that fell under Denmark, so that we could be allowed to close education and training, particularly vocational training. There has been no desire on the part of the government for there to be a pandemic; there has been no desire for us to be in a situation where we had to deal with a shutdown. Therefore, on our side, there is also only a desire to open up as quickly as we can at all, but in a way that avoids having to shut everything down again. With regard to the question of when this will happen, the rapporteur can answer it as well as I can, because our respective party leaders are negotiating with each other about it and when white smoke will emerge from those negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317160326	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317160327	Thank you. And if it was up to the Left, the students would have rather come back yesterday than tomorrow. And that is what has been our starting point for a very long time: when it comes to certification courses, we think they should have been back from the very beginning, because they are in the amu sector. When it comes to the workshops and the professional part of the training, we think they should have been back from the start, because it is workplace rules and, in fact, not school and training rules that apply. But I actually asked the minister when the minister will ensure that all the students are back. The GF1s sit at home, the main graduates, who are not about to finish, sit at home, the students in school practice sit at home • When can they come back?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317160402	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317160403	I think it should be noted that over the last few weeks there has been an incredible amount of attention on Norway, and it has been asked whether we could not just do as in Norway, but now they are closing all the education programmes in Norway. You just have to remember that if we do things too quickly, letting some people come back can mean that everything else shuts down again and that we really go back to where we are. That's why we're taking these balanced steps forward. On the question of when this will happen, the answer is as in the last round, namely that our respective party leaders are currently discussing reopening with each other, and therefore the questioner can answer as well as I can.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317160440	Here's to Mrs. Anni Matthiesen as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317160442	Yes, thank you. Perhaps I could start by saying that I believe that the President of the Left is prepared to go even if, for that matter, it should take several days to stay in the negotiating room to achieve the goal, because we have the view that these young people need to get back to their education. One of the things that puzzled me is that the entire craft industry has been open throughout the pandemic. I can say that, too, because the man I'm married to at home is a craftsman. He's had employees at work every day, and it's worked really well. What I think is quite illogical is when we look at these young people who are taking a craft training course and who actually work in workshops where there is as much space as there is for that matter on the various construction sites that the craftsmen are on • why on earth they cannot then be allowed to go to work, but that instead they are forced to sit behind a screen. Does the Minister not find it contradictory and it is illogical that these young people should not be helped in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317160557	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317160558	We have invented such a concept, called paradoxical rules, here under the coronate. In fact, you can say the same thing: why is it that my department manager, who works in office, works from home, while the administrative officer in your husband's company probably sits and works in the workplace because you are allowed to do so? It is also a paradox; it is quite the same. But it is not after all, because what it is all about here is the total amount of activity in society. And therefore, two people who have completely identical jobs may well have two different sets of rules, because it is about the total amount of social infection, and therefore there is also a difference between what you must if you are a student in one situation, compared to if you are a student in the other situation. Do I think this is a problem for the students who are at home? Yes, I do, and indeed especially for the skp students, that is, because the skp students are going to be at odds with the students who are in company practice. So I think that there are a lot of challenges on the back of corona, and we simply have to get through them on the best possible push, which is why I am among others. I welcome the agreement we have made with each other in relation to the extension of training, because I think that may be absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317160709	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317160710	Indeed, in relation to some of the points raised here by the Minister, that is to say, the backlog that is also going to be for that group of young people, I would say that many of them are young people who had actually dreamed of being ready soon to start working as a trained bricklayer or as a trained carpenter or for that matter as a cook or whatever. But now they have a huge backlog in terms of lost learning. And I would really like to ask: is the Minister going to do more to help these young people so that they can get started more quickly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317160746	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317160747	In other words, we have now taken joint decisions which I think are wise, in other words, in relation to making extensions of education. And on the basis of the punches on the bag given by the vocational school sector in relation to how long you can even run the online education before it is really no longer possible, because then there is nothing more that can be learned from online, since if you are going to be a chef, you really have to have a kitchen to stand in and so on, then I think that the agreement we have made with each other covers it for now. It is clear that if everything is still in the deep freezer, when we reach the month of May, and nothing is open, then we have to look at it again. But it is my hope that our respective party leaders will come up with something that has a slightly more positive spirit than that everything is still in the deep freezer in May. So we have to take stock of the fact that if everything opens up after Easter to the vocational schools... let's say it was the scenario... then we're in one situation, and if we're back in May, that's a different situation. Fortunately, there we have had a close cooperation with each other to deal with the concrete.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317160850	Birthright is Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby who asks, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317160853	Yes, I am also pleased with the agreement we have made, in which we create a safety net for those students who have lost a great deal of their education. And you just have to say that you don't become a bricklayer without getting a bricklayer in your hand and just sitting with a mouse at home in front of a computer monitor. And we are long past the point where there is theoretical content in education. This is also what the trade union movement, student organisations and the employer side have said for a long time, and that is also why we, together with Dansk Metal, have been looking at whether we could not put up with any teaching in the companies, so that the students could just come out and feel a little bit about reality. Unfortunately, however, I do not think that we have come this far yet, and I hope that after the question today the Minister will just go along with us, that it is not enough for us to talk about this; we also need to take decisions that bring the pupils back to vocational training.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317160943	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317160945	Yes, we have to make some decisions. That's why the Prime Minister has called for negotiations. And what we have in any case prioritised together with our support parties is that we have to look at the vocational schools in this next pool as one of the first things, and that is, of course, because there is indeed a problem with the implementation of practical teaching. Yes, so we have to wait and see how decisions have to be made, and that is what is being done these days, and I hope it will be done together this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161012	Thank you to the questioner. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, who can stay ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161026	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161029	Thank you. Will the Minister explain how it makes sense that pupils should spend time and effort being tested to only meet at school one day a week outdoors, and what benefit does the Minister expect the oldest school pupils to get out of teaching one day a week outdoors?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161044	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161045	As far as the first part of the question is concerned, I simply have to ask the questioner whether we are talking about how it makes sense for health policy to be tested, because that must then be the area of the Minister for Health. So now I want to explain why I think that one day makes sense. For there is no doubt that it is a strong recommendation in the guidelines that students are tested, both in connection with entering one day, but also in relation to if they are back at 50 per cent. or 100 per cent, depending on where in Denmark you live, and that is of course to avoid the spread of the infection. If we are to go deeper into this issue, it is the area of the Minister for Health. In relation to whether it is a good idea to have them back in one day, I would say that it was in this way the President of the Left who, together with a few of the other parties, struck the drum for us to have a flexible reopening. The Left President said very directly and I thought it wise that if you can't get the students back full-time, you should at least be able to look at a flexible opportunity for them to come back a few days a week. There we have caught the glove, and it has become possible to get them back one day a week, and what I think the students are getting out of it is that they get that feeling of fellowship, which I think there are a lot of children and young people who miss so much. I would say that personally, if I could take a walk around Dregemosesen with 25 of my comrades, then also as an adult would think it was a huge party, because we are as much alone as we are at the moment. And for kids and young people who, I think, miss that community at least as much I think they miss it even more than we adults do. It's clear that just being able to get in one day a week is better than nothing. Would we rather it be every day of the week? Yeah, of course, I guess everyone would. We just have to be careful to move so quickly out there that we end up having to shut everything down again, just as we can see it elsewhere in Europe right now. There you have reopened, a little more than we have here in Denmark, and now you are shutting down a number of areas of education again. So it's a balancing act.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161246	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161248	Thank you for that answer. I hope, of course, that we agree that it has enormous negative consequences for our children and young people that they are not back in school full-time yet. And given the consequences, it might be interesting to hear the Minister what calculations are behind this solution, that is to say one day a week outdoors, and what considerations the Minister has made about the solution that has been adopted in relation to the consequences for children and young people that they have this one day a week outdoors.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161323	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161326	Health calculations must be made with the Minister of Health. But if what is meant by calculations is what it is that you get from being back one day a week, then I would say that we have never been in the situation before. And that means that no calculations have been made showing that it is better for young people to be back one day a week than not to be back at all. On the other hand, there is a perfectly clear position from near and far, and everyone who deals with children, that if it is possible to be back one day a week, then it is better than nothing. But, unfortunately, calculations can first be made at the back, and I think it is very wise that we are moving out of this track because there is so much agreement that children obviously need to come back into a community.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161408	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161410	I had a little trouble understanding the answer. In other words, when you say that it is safe for the children to come back one day a week outdoors, you must also have an idea of what it would mean if they came back two days a week outdoors or if you let them go back to school, just as you have done with the smaller pupils. What are the considerations? And what does the Minister know about the health consequences of getting them back full-time?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161438	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161439	As I have said, health calculations are the health minister's resort, and there is usually respect in the Assembly room for us to take it as a matter of urgency. Of course, we have also seen the recommendations of the health authorities in the Ministry of Education in connection with the negotiations that have taken place and in which I have also participated. But discussion of the health authorities' specific data, and what lies in calculations, is the health minister's resort.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161503	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161504	So is it the Minister for Health or the Minister for Education who has decided that children should return one day a week outdoors?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161514	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161515	We participated together in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161522	All right, we'll thank the questioner. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Children and Education, and it is by Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen that please stay ready. I don't know if I could have Mr. Knox. Christoffer Aagaard Melson to wipe the chair off after him. Thank you. The enquirer is Mr. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161550	Here you go, Mrs. Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161554	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that it is sustainable that pupils in upper secondary and vocational education can continue to receive only home education?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161606	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161609	No. Since, as a Social Democrat, I have not thought that now we have to invent a global pandemic, because we think it is absolutely fantastic that all children should be at home sitting behind a screen and being taught, I think it is a durable no. Unfortunately, however, we cannot negotiate with a pandemic, so in the situation we are in now, it has been extremely crucial for us that teachers should be assigned to that task. It was, of course, a choice we made in the spring, and it was a choice between there being no education or home education, and there it was clearly preferable to carry out home education because it gives children a structure in everyday life. This means that even where it may be that you do not get so much out of it professionally, it can help to create some kind of structure in everyday life that would not be there if there were no home education. Then there is actually a great deal of the students who also get a professional benefit from home education. There is also a group in the region of 20 per cent that does not get very much professional benefit from home education. So there are pretty big differences in what you get out of it. But the choice to do home teaching, when you were in a situation where the students were going home, I think it has been quite right, and I think it is a very great privilege that we in Denmark are so digitized that it has actually been possible to do so in practice, and that we have a teaching position which, moreover, was able to adapt at very, very short notice to teaching in a way in which they have no education. Our teachers are not trained to teach online, nevertheless they did and took the lead. I think they have done very well. So have I had a wish that there should be a global pandemic that would mean that we should close the schools? It's enough to drag it a little far. However, on the question of whether I think it is a good idea for home education to be provided, given that we are in this situation, I have to say that this is in fact one of the decisions I am very happy to have taken, and it is also here that I am most impressed by what an employee group, namely the teaching profession, has been able to deliver.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161803	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161805	Thank you for your reply to the Minister. I was almost afraid that it would be such an ultra-short answer, so it was very good just to get a few words attached to it. The Minister now had a great deal to do with youth education, but vocational training is also part of this issue. The Minister's focus was a little on the students who have returned, and on some digitisation and some teaching, but as my colleagues from the Left have just asked, you cannot become a bricklayer using a computer. I understand that the Minister is putting himself under this with a global pandemic, but I am just sorry to have to say that one year later you cannot hide behind it anymore. We need to talk further about the problems that lie in this. And it's a strange paradox that a masonry master of 30 years, who works on a house he builds for a builder, can go to work every day, tested or untested, so no one is checking out, but his apprentice can't. So a mason of 30 years can go to work, but the apprentice, who needs learning, has no opportunity to leave. And the vast majority have been sent home. I think that is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161911	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317161912	I do not think that my answer focused on the overall education sector, which has been converted into digitalisation. And it is absolutely true that there is a huge difference between whether we are talking about food knowledge or whether we are talking about some who are in cavalry, to take those who are a little older, or whether we are talking about a matt-fys-gymnasie pupil, where you actually need a laboratory to be able to have physics lessons, or whether we are talking about the challenges of being English-French-language high school students. So, depending on where you are in the education system, there are different issues. Where the problems are greatest is, of course, where you need specialist rooms where you need laboratories or the like. It's self-evident. That is why the priorities have also been set in the way they are in terms of who can return when. That is why it was the practice tests that we started as the very first one last year, and it was they that we got the country long before we took care of the academic subjects, because we know that there are difficulties with the part dealing with practical teaching. Well, I see I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317162016	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317162017	I'm wearing co-questions. Third Vice-President You have one more question). Okay, I just don't think I usually do. Then it is very interesting to ask what the Minister has just mentioned. The Minister suggests that, as a craftsman, learning can actually be received from home. I simply do not think we can do that. I simply believe that the whole paradox as a craftsman who masons now I have a better half at home, who is a mason's master, is that you cannot be trained as a bricklayer and get your professional skills with you at home in front of a computer, because the whole prerequisite is that you have it in your hands. You can just ask a craftsman about that. Now the Minister is suggesting that this is indeed an opportunity and that priority has been given to some of the subjects which are precisely not suitable for teaching from home. But it is precisely the same paradox that is around the trades.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317162105	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317162106	I think what I said might have been misunderstood. What we have prioritised is that in this round of negotiations that is currently taking place, the government, together with the support parties, has proposed that vocational schools should be first, precisely because it is hardest to have to receive training from home when you have practical subjects. That's what I meant by priorities. I would just like to say that it is wrong, then, that one cannot receive education from home at all. I assume that the rapporteur is also aware that there is in fact also a theoretical part of the vocational schools' education, and what has been the assessment of the vocational school sector is that virtual education could be carried out somewhere between 8 and 12 weeks, and that is exactly the limit we are setting and boxing with now. For then there is no more, and then you have to go in, depending on the profession you have, and have the bricklayer in your hand or be in the kitchen if you are training for a cook. But it is not the case that there is no theoretical part of vocational training, because it is a difference between the two.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317162201	Then it's mr. Steen Knuth as an enquirer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317162218	Thank you, President. And thank you to the Minister for the answers, and thank you also for recognizing that you cannot become a cook if you do not stand by a pot or if you do not have the stones in your hands. I also believe that we agree that we have reached the point where students in these courses cannot stand to sit and get more virtual education and that they have to go into practice and have something in their hands. Now I have listened a little bit to the Minister also mentioning that negotiations are currently taking place among the party leaders, and with the experience that we have now gained from the negotiations, the fears of the Left are that we will not get started after Easter. So my question to the Minister is: what are the considerations of the Minister, if it is the case that we have to go all the way to May, before we move forward, in view of the fact that craftsman training requires a stone in hand or a spoon in the pot?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317162320	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317162322	Well, now you have to be careful to list all possible scenarios. I think that we are in a rather serious situation if vocational training is closed for much longer; I do not have to hide that at all. And that is also why, together with the support parties, we in the government have made a separate passage on vocational schools in connection with the last reopening. It is not a joke; it is actually made because we believe that if we allow decommissioning to last much longer, we have a serious problem with vocational training. So there is certainly a lot of thought behind that that is the order that is thought in. If everything is in the freezer until May, and we still have not opened up the school sector, I do not think we are, but should we be there, then it is clear that, in relation to the agreement on professional delays that we have entered into with each other and where we have brought almost all the parties of the Folketing around the table, and where we have given some special opportunities for further training in vocational training, we will have to reconsider the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317162427	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317162429	Thank you, President. Well, we don't want to make it to May before we get started. We hope that we can get started as soon as possible, but it is a scenario that we cannot get started. And our fears in the Left are precisely that we are waiting until the 23rd, when the Prime Minister has said that there will be a plan, and then there will be a plan that will work in a while. And the longer it takes, the more hopeless the young people in the Left will be, we have also said that every day counts. We therefore believe, Minister, that you should call a conversation about what we do if it is that there are different scenarios that we can already start discussing so that young people can have a hope.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317162512	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317162513	We have so much about these reopenings, so if we were to call for negotiations on all possible scenarios, including that nothing opens up until May, in a situation where party leaders are negotiating the reopening, then the day has simply for a few hours. After all, we have had an incredibly close cooperation, and I meet twice a week with all the parties of the Danish Parliament, and I very much appreciate that, and as soon as it turns out to be necessary, we will, of course, start the conversations that need to be about it. However, I think that we will just see how the negotiations land before we start planning all possible scenarios at a definite negotiating table.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317162551	Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen asking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317162553	I think it is the sixth or seventh question in which we are circling it here, and that is because we in the Left think it is simply so frustrating and so unfortunate that we are hiding behind a global pandemic and hiding behind some negotiations and hiding behind the fact that it is over in the Ministry of Health if we are pressed further. I think it is a good thing that the Minister says that you want to do that, but I still have to get a guarantee from the Minister that you are actually going to do it. Well, there's less infection outside of that we've been confirmed and we also have the opportunity to be tested. If we go back to these bricklayers, these apprentices: when they have the opportunity to be tested and be outside, wouldn't the Minister like to take the responsibility and lay down in order for them to come back now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317162650	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317162651	Indeed, we have already agreed on this with the support parties, that is to say that the next thing that stands for is the vocational schools. So I can actually say a very clear yes to that. After all, there are negotiations going on right now with the party leaders, and neither the rapporteur nor I can anticipate how they are going. Then I just have to say about the thing about hiding behind a pandemic that I can't see another reason why the schools are closed. So there is one reason why schools are closed, and that is that there is a global pandemic. I have never heard any party argue: let us close all the schools over the winter, because the young people have a great deal of good to do, so we close all the schools equally. Well, it's not something about hiding behind a global pandemic; there's a global pandemic. That is why, of course, we also have a slightly different view of which tools to use. I heard a lot of people say, "Now all you have to do is do like Norway." And now they're in the middle of a tough shut-down in Oslo schools. In other words, I believe that we must take great care and keep the balance so that we risk taking such great steps that everything closes down again. So this is a balancing act, but for the thing about hiding behind a global pandemic, I'd say that I still haven't heard those who want to close the schools just because it's funny. We're doing it because there's a global pandemic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317162807	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the author. The next question is also for the Minister for Children and Education. It's from Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317162827	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317162829	Thank you. Does the Minister think that it is reasonable that the graduates have soon missed 100 days of teaching in the last year, which is equivalent to half of a school year, and that the government in several parts of the country has not yet ensured full re-opening of the schools and courses for graduates?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317162844	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317162845	No, I do not think it is fair that there is a global pandemic that has hit children and young people and, by the way, the rest of our society. I'd rather have been out of it. But unfortunately, it is not the case that you can say to the global pandemic: we think it is totally unreasonable, so please go away. Well, I'm afraid it doesn't work that way. It does so neither in the case of natural disasters nor in the case of pandemics. That is why we are in a situation, one can say where we have had to deal with a global pandemic, and that has had a huge impact on very large parts of our society. One of the consequences is that graduates and, incidentally, all other pupils have missed out on much of their schooling over the past year, and we will be doing everything we can to make things right. And we have also, together with each other, created completely different exam conditions this year for graduates across the education sector, which can be taken into account that there have been different levels of training, for example. organises the oral examinations. We have both reduced the number of exams, but we have also made it possible for the individual exams to take into account that the teaching has been different. But do I think it's fair that there's a pandemic? No, I'd rather not, but it's a little out of my reach to be able to block global pandemics after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317163011	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317163013	Thank you. I do not think anyone has wanted there to be a pandemic that hit not only Denmark but the whole world. With all due respect, Minister, I think that answer has now been given at least two handfuls of times to myself and to the other authors of the Left, and the way in which we are being debated does not bring us forward. So, it is the government that is government, and if the government does not want to be government, you can of course hand over the keys, and then we other people will manage this country, and thus also take responsibility for those students who, when we look at the metropolitan area, are still not back in education, or who, if we look at the graduation students or the 5.-8. classes all over the country, are only allowed to show up outdoors four times a month, even though there is absolutely nothing to suggest that you would not be able to show up every day outdoors if that was what you wanted. Or we can look at the vocational school pupils, whom the government has not given priority to reopening, although many of the elements of the training are more comparable to a workplace than it is to compare with a classroom and an educational establishment. When we have asked these questions today, it is because we care about our children and young people, and we have made it clear from the Left that we want to put our children and young people first. That is why we have said that they have to go back to school and back to education. That doesn't mean we'll just open everything right away. Because we kind of agree that we have to do this properly. We have just chosen to say that we must give priority to our children and young people, and that is where there is a contradiction with the government in relation to the will to put the children first when it is not just about talking about it, but also about acting and making decisions so that it is opened up. I mean, this question is one of those things. on the metropolitan area, where there are municipalities which have very, very low levels of infection, and yet the graduate students in those municipalities have not been allowed to return, even though they have already lost 100 days of education or half a school year's education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317163218	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317163219	After all, if you ask basically the same question 100 times in a row, you basically get the same answer. The question is asked again and again whether the government thinks it is reasonable and then something new that is closed, and I think the questioner has actually noticed that I think this is such a slightly bearded way of asking. Because in what is reasonable there is, after all, that someone should have an intention, and there is not, of course, because I have not heard anyone argue that this global pandemic is a great idea and has not heard anyone say that let us have a little more of it so that we can close a little more to the schools. It is clear that if you ask the question it is fair that... I would say that in relation to the issue of children and young people, the first thing we opened up to was the schools, that is to say it was simply the first thing that opened up, by the way, in a re-opening plan on which all the parties of the Folketing and, indeed, the Left have supported. It is true that the Left would like to go faster than we think is reasonable. I believe that, in this context, there would be a risk of having to do hard braking and shutdowns again, because things could get out of control, just as we have seen, among other things. Finally, in Oslo and also in a few other European countries. But on the question of whether one has a wish for schools to be first, one could ask the question the other way round and ask: what was the first thing that opened up in connection with the reopening? That was the 0-4 class. Well, there wasn't even anything that opened at the same time. That was the 0.-4. class period.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317163355	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317163356	We also backed this up and pressed the government to allow the 0-4 classes to return after the government canceled the 0-4 class reopening, although there was a report from the professional experts to advise that there was no risk of infection associated with opening up the 0-4 classes, but that there was a great need for it. Nevertheless, we had to see the Prime Minister at a press conference which, as it were, said: Uha, it will not be until 28 February. Fortunately, it was earlier because there was massive pressure and good for it. But we have also seen infectious calculations which showed that, for example, there is a risk of infection. In the case of the post-schools, i.e. the entire post-school sector, five extra hospitals were in; that is what we were talking about in April. Yet the government chose to keep them closed longer than was necessary. That is why we are asking why the government thinks it is reasonable. After all, there are infectious calculations which show that we could actually take a much higher risk and thus take our children and young people back in schools and in education. That is why the question is quite relevant: why is it that the government and the minister will not be involved in ensuring this? In this case, of course, the graduation students here in the metropolitan area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317163505	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317163506	Funny enough, you keep failing to tell us what is at risk. Because what you have to be aware of is what can happen if, for example, we do. Opens too fast. Let's say we took the graduates back full-time, all of us across the country. Then there is the risk that the 0-4 classes that have returned will return home. That is exactly what we are doing, for example. in Oslo now, that the infection is running away, and then you have to shut down youth education, and there are also a few other places in the education sector that they are shutting down for now. So it's just to say that the risk you're taking is that thousands of students will have to go home again. Therefore, this is a balancing act, and I have not really heard anyone in the Folketing who does not want those students to go back. But if we do so too quickly, and if we are too eager, it has the consequence that we are seeing in other countries now, namely that we are going to shut down completely and hard again. And that is what we want to avoid, because it will mean that the total amount of school days you then get to be at home will increase, and for the small pupils there is a very little benefit from distance learning, and that is why I would be very sorry if we were to send the 0-4 classes back home because we have moved too quickly beyond the ice. So it's a balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317163621	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317163622	Since we opened up to the young pupils and took the initiatives that we have taken subsequently, the number of infections compared to the number of inmates has only gone one way, and that is down. The latest figures today and it's super positive have now come down below 200. So the scare-mongering that the minister is setting up by saying that because we have opened up to some of the students, more infected people have come in Denmark, is not true. This is, in fact, the opposite development we have seen. That is why we have just said from the left: we need to reopen schools and education, we need to put our children first and we need to ensure that they get their daily lives back. Why on earth does the Minister think it is reasonable that because there is an outbreak of infection in Oslo, this should be the reason why Danish children and young people should not go back to school? I do not understand that and we do not think it is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317163704	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317163705	It sounds like the rapporteur is not aware that her own party chairman sits with my party chairman and negotiates reopening. Because what we are discussing here is, after all, the situation that has been over the last 14 days, one month. What is being negotiated now is precisely because the levels of infection are as low as they are. However, the perfectly unambiguous recommendation of the health authorities was that we should not go too fast. It was the unequivocal recommendation that we should not go too fast. That is why we are now in a situation where it looks really nice and we can therefore, fortunately, negotiate further reopening.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317163746	Thank you to the questioner. The next question is also for the Minister for Children and Education, and that is by Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, getting ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317163801	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317163804	Thank you. How will the Minister ensure that we continue to have skilled carpenters, blacksmiths, confections, etc., trained in front of a screen, and that the aforementioned professional groups acquire the right skills and develop the right independence when they have to train themselves in front of a screen?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317163822	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317163823	In practical terms, I think that the agreement between our parties and the vast majority of parties in the Folketing on the possibility of extension of training is the answer to that. There is no doubt that for those who take education, whether in laboratories or workshops or in kitchens, or where it is now necessary to be part of their education, it is essential to be more difficult than for those who do not need it. That is why we have chosen, in the context of the agreement we have made with each other, both to set aside a considerable amount of money for extension of training, but also to create a greater flexibility around those courses, so that we can compensate for the training which we have now been sitting behind a screen and where at least the practical benefits are to be seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317163905	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317163907	Thank you for your answer. I hope that we can agree here that this is an area in which it simply does not make sense that we should not, for example, do this. in very small teams, with great distance, with tests and with alcohol can enter physically, because it is really difficult to be trained behind a screen right in this area. Following on from the fact that this is one of the areas where decommissioning makes very, very little sense, I would like to know whether the Minister has raised this issue with his colleagues in the government. I assume that it is the Minister's role to tell the other government about this when something does not make sense in her area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317163943	Thank you to the questioner. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317163945	It should be publicly known that we actually have an agreement that vocational schools are next to it. So I assume that the rapporteur has also been informed of this. That's the government's position. That is why it is in the agreement we have reached with the support parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317164003	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317164004	Thank you. I would like to ask two questions: when will vocational schools be opened and has the Minister been given any answer as to how much it will increase the pressure of infection if they are now reopened with all these measures?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317164019	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317164020	That would be incredibly untimely interference in a course of negotiations in which both the chairman of the party and my party chairman are sitting and negotiating reopening with each other now. To start guessing when it comes from, and what do I know, I think we leave it to those who sit and negotiate, and then when white smoke rises, we can discuss it further in the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317164044	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317164045	Personally, I find it very strange that we have a minister dealing with one of the most important areas: our children and young people, who cannot answer any question whatsoever about the consequences, or why solutions have been chosen in this area. Does the Minister himself not find it a little strange that she has not received any figures or answers at all or any indication of how much the infection will increase in relation to these very intrusive things for which she has to measure up?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317164116	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317164117	After all, there is a certain difference between the fact that things have not been seen and the fact that I am not the one who is debating them in the Chamber. After all, I am not the Minister for Health, which means that it would be quite unusual for me to stand here and discuss matters relating to the health ministry's area of responsibility. Moreover, the Minister for Health has been here earlier so that the questioner could have asked the same questions about the infectious prints. It is simply not figures that fall under my remit, but I am then involved in the negotiations at the negotiating table, and it is also clear from the text of the agreement that vocational schools are the next to them. This is because, on the part of the government, we believe that there is an independent issue where there are practically oriented subjects.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317164157	Thank you to the questioner. There is another question for the Minister for Children and Education, and that is the last one. It's of Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, and it's with Enquiries Maja Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317164209	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317164222	Thank you very much. Does the Minister consider that it is actually possible for schools to offer both physical education for children, offer home education and secure outdoor meetings in fixed well-being groups with up to four pupils, and has sufficient provision been made to ensure emergency education for those pupils who need it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317164244	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317164245	Yeah. I will answer a little longer, but it is just the case that when yes-no questions are asked, I think it is a very good idea to start by saying yes or no. Yeah, I mean, otherwise, of course, that wasn't what we put up for. But I have, on the other hand, heard examples of the municipalities. Hopefully it's getting over with, so we hope it's from earlier in the corona course... who thinks they should continue with a regular school schedule, as if there were no corona, and on top of that they have to solve these tasks. Of course, that is not possible, because it is clear that you cannot. For this reason, the vast majority of schools have also taken note of the fact that there are emergency regulations, and that is why, of course, you have to turn down other activities when it is the case that you have to take care of these activities. Fortunately, schools have been extremely good at this planning. It has cost a lot of working hours for the school leaders who have had to sit and change first on one, then on the other, and then something new comes up. That is to say, we are dealing with a group of school leaders who have done such a huge amount of work during this period; for every single time there is an extra day or is 50 per cent. extra open, or whatever it is, but then they're gonna have to redesign schedules and reorganise the work. Fortunately, they have done so with their necks curved. It has a huge positive effect on the children that they do so. But there is no doubt that it costs a lot of power out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317164402	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317164404	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, which was again longer than just a yes or no. I just think there's some mysterious double communication in this. Now I am also on the parent side, and there we have received the note from both the Minister and another minister about this area, that is, emergency education and that you should remember to send your children if they need it. I have also discussed this with the Minister earlier in the course of a consultation, I think it was where we were just talking about this. So we still have children who are at home and who should be away for emergency education. It's like one part of it. Then there is the second part of it, and that is the whole problem of teachers, which I can see has also been on the discussion pages and say that they feel they are being told opposing things. It can also be said that a school with the resources it has had so far, of course cannot do both emergency education, do home teaching for those who are still away, make well-being groups with a teacher who leaves with four pupils, and then have the smallest, i.e. the 0-4 classes, at school. These are many different groups, and perhaps one might want the Minister to report out clearly and say that then one must choose and prioritise, or one must choose, as I and the Left wish, to add the extra resources to the area, as we have seen in many other respects here in Corona.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317164522	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317164524	Well, I can't wait to see a paper from the Left about it. We have just reached an agreement with each other to add more money, but I look forward to it if there is another presentation from the Left. Compared to being able to run these different tasks, they're doing it out there. I am well aware that they sometimes get double signals, i.e. the municipality says one thing and then something else is said by the Ministry. That's how it's seen out there. It is clear that at a time when new things are being implemented at such incredibly short notice as we are doing all the time now. Under normal circumstances, it would take a year to implement something, and they have 3 weeks until now. And we will correct it the moment we can see that there is some discrepancy in the communication that comes out. But, of course, these things happen under corona. It is just to say that what the rapporteur says is impossible, that is nevertheless what they are actually driving out there right now. But that means, of course, that it cannot be done for those schools that still think that they can both run a regular school schedule and then do one and do the other and do the third. That is why we have emergency orders that allow them to loosen the usual professional ties, so that there will be resources for the tasks which are prioritized under corona.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317164636	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317164637	Then I think that the Minister should report more clear and clean communication to these places, because I am told at least that there are very ambiguous statements in this area. I would also just like to ask, in relation to the children who have been repatriated and should actually have been sent to emergency education: what will the Minister do to change that? Because we have been talking about this for a month now, I think, and we still have children sitting at home. We also still have children sitting at home in my own municipality, in Odense, where I, as a local councillor, have also tried to put this on the agenda. I get a feedback from my administration that the Minister has sent out a note on this. That's not enough at all. We have kids sitting at home right now who should have left. Every day is so crucial to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317164717	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317164718	I assume that those referred to right now are those who are socially at risk and that we must therefore get the percentage up for those who are in emergency education. I have some doubts about that on the basis of the question. But then let me take both things that get shook up. Fortunately, the emergency education rate has risen in the last few weeks, and I am very pleased with that. I would say in relation to the fact that we have children sitting at home, that I personally have two sitting at home. I do not think I will forget, every morning I leave, that some are still at home, because they are in the fifth and eighth classes and live in the capital. So they're in school one day a week. It's just to say that it's not something about me forgetting that some kids are still at home. At least they'd remind me in the morning if I forgot.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317164757	As a co-author, it's Maja Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317164807	I would like to stay on the same track and ask the Minister about these very children who are at home and really need to go. Because this is not just about the socially vulnerable. After all, there are children and young people sitting at home with anxiety and depression, who have actually flared up violently during this time when they have not been able to go. What I want to ask the Minister is about this concept of emergency education. Because when you use the word distress, you also signal that you would rather not make use of it. So what I want to ask the Minister is: what do you do to communicate to these children and their parents: you must show up at school, you are very, very welcome, you should not just get out of need?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317164859	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317164900	I would like to say that this is one of the things that I have just gotten very unlikely many grey hairs in my head since the closure in the spring and up to now, because it has been a really hard nut to crack. After Christmas we were stable just under 5%, and fortunately the figures are starting to correct now and are about 7.5 per cent. It's better, but it's still not enough. What we have done before this is that we have approached all parents. In other words, we have written out a letter to all parents with children in primary school and told them that there is the possibility of coming in, and moreover referred to some places where help can be obtained with different types of problems. Then we have written out to all teachers, also to have that direct contact right out into the classroom, and urged that one look at the class or classes one has to deal with in one's teaching, and pointed out that the longer the time corona lasts, the larger the group we are talking about, precisely because, as the questioner says, it is not just that it is the group that already has a look at which is facing challenges. It is a broader group now, and there are some for whom the problems are much deeper now. That's why we've done the most massive communication effort I've ever done in this process, exactly in relation to this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317165018	Thank you, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317165019	So I should just like to understand the Minister: have you begun to graduate now, so that it appeals to a wider part of the children and young people who are at home? Or how do you talk about it? As far as I am concerned, the need is increasing, the longer it takes, so it can be said that we also need to do more and more to bring those children and young people back. We must prevent even more children and young people from starting to experience anxiety and depression. Children and young people who have actually been fresh children and young people with healthy interests cannot go to sport, they cannot go to school and see their comrades, etc. It is really a bomb under the mental health of our children and young people. So can the Minister unfold a little more, what is this message that comes out to parents and teachers? Is it a welcome to school, or is it still you guys gotta stay away? And can the Minister to some extent define the claim?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317165131	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317165132	I think we have actually sent the letter to the committee, and otherwise I would be very happy to do so, so that the specific wording can also be seen and reproduced to people who might be addressing the question. It is clear that we have also signaled very strongly that we would like it to be a much larger share than the one that has been in so far. And it has been very important for me to repeat it and repeat it both here in the Parliamentary Chamber, but also in various news broadcasts, simply to get more people to come in. For it is not only those who, what can be said, ahead of corona were already some who had an extra effort on the part of the school. It's a much wider group than that. So thank you for bringing this up again, so we have another opportunity to stress it for those who are watching.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317165220	Thank you. Then it is as the main questioner Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317165235	Thank you for the floor. I can hear from the Minister's reply today that we fully agree on where we start, and we also agree on where we are going. I guess I just disagree with the Minister on how we can get there as best we can. I don't think this letter that's been sent out is enough. The figures also speak their own clear language, for it is not as many children who have been sent off in emergency education as they should. And as I said in my previous question, every day these students, these young people, these kids sit at home every day, they have the disastrous consequences for them. And I think the Minister agrees with me on that too. There are two kinds of kids who are home. There are both those who are vulnerable and vulnerable, and then there are the others who will be the Minister, because when it comes to those who are already vulnerable, the authorities are, unfortunately, some who these parents fear. The others may be some where the parents are in the situation that they simply have not seen that the child is in disarray. So both things speak their own clear language. And I just think that the Minister should get on the ground with something more and more than just a letter, because that is not enough out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317165341	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317165342	Well, that's not the only thing. It was just asked about the communication effort. After all, it is an agreement that we have made together, and I would say that my door is full of pistols. I know there is not a single one of the proposals that the Left has made and it has actually been many in this area that we have not implemented. And that means that if the Left has new ideas for it, we meet twice a week and welcome new ideas about what we can do to get more students back. However, I have to say, in relation to the agreement we have made together, that there has actually been a 50 per cent jump. However, it is an increase that can be taken and felt. I still think we should go further, but as I said, my door is open, finally come up with all the ideas you want. There's a meeting on Tuesdays and Fridays.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317165423	We thank the questioner and we thank the Minister. The next series of questions is addressed to the Minister for Business and Industry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317165445	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317165448	Thank you for that, President. Does the Minister believe that it is reasonable that many of the country's self-employed workers, who showed great socialism in the spring of the first shutdown by not dismissing their employees, should be completely at their knees because they continue to pay a very high price for the pay gap, while their business and thus livelihoods have been forced out for more than a year?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317165513	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317165516	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for the question. I understand very well that the current situation is pushing a lot of people in Denmark. It's hard, and it's really hard. But we also know the light at the end of the tunnel now that society is opening up. With all that said, of course, it is my general view that we have some aid packages that also work as intended. More than 30 billion has been paid out. kr. in compensation, of which 60%. has gone to small enterprises with up to 25 employees who have had the opportunity to apply for the self-employment scheme. Most recently, the government and a broad majority in the Folketing have entered into an agreement to increase compensation to the self-employed, precisely to help those affected by the long-term decommissioning. The higher rate of compensation can, of course, include: It was also one of the reasons for the agreement to cover the company's own payment to employees in the compensation scheme or, of course, to other running costs. We are, of course, following the situation of companies closely and are constantly looking at whether further action is needed to help as many people as possible through this difficult situation that many are in right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317165628	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317165630	Corona has had an incredibly high cost for a lot of Danish companies, and sometimes I wonder if you quite understand what it really means when you bring money every day to work as a self-employed person. I spoke to a hairdresser the other day who said that every day that passes before they are allowed to reopen it costs her money because of the difference she has to make up in the salaries of her employees. There was recently a gentleman in front of the Business Committee who also gave a good example of how he lost thousands of kroner every single day because there's this difference. And as he said, the Prime Minister appealed to the social mind over a year ago, and we chose to raise our hands and say that we would not fire our employees, but show community mind. They might not have expected them to have closed for a whole year, but each day they had simply lost the savings they had put aside year after year when they had run these businesses. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether the Minister does not think that it is reasonable for those entrepreneurs and self-employed people who have shown a social spirit to be able to cover in some way more of the difference that exists in relation to employees' wage compensation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317165810	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317165813	Thank you. I think that today is also a good day to remember to thank all the many self-employed and business owners who show a social spirit and who have kept their employees. Many have done so in order to show a social spirit, with many have also done so in a more favourable competitive situation when society opens up again, because the fact that you have your employees also makes you have the skills and can start right away. Of course, there is a very great deal of thanks to those who have taken care of their employees here during the crisis. After all, we chose to say together that we would like to lift the compensation framework for the self-employed scheme so that it would be easier to cover the additional expenditure on the pay side, and that is why I think that with the adjustments we have made we have found a good balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317165900	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317165901	Now I was lucky enough to have the Minister in consultation last week about a bit of the same thing, in other words how to bleed in the tourism industry and the experience economy in particular, but also about how small and medium-sized enterprises are bleeding in these months. There I asked whether there was no possibility of changing the compensation scheme. And there the Minister replied to me that it was not possible because it was a tripartite agreement that had been concluded. I would like to ask the Minister again: can we not make a political agreement next to the tripartite agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317165938	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317165939	So, basically, we believe that the wage compensation system is a proper arrangement to negotiate in the tripartite institution. And that is why it is our starting point that it lies well there also to take care of the important institution, the tripartite institution, which has been so crucial here during the crisis. Besides it, you can have other arrangements that play ball against it, for example. our independent system, in which we have now decided together at the beginning of February to promise how much money you could get as a self-employed person precisely in order to make it easier to cover the expenses you still have to pay for having your employees and hence your competences in the company.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170017	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170018	But, Minister, there is still a gap. Even if the Left got it in place together with the government and got the yawn smaller, then there are still a lot of companies that are simply the equivalent of the forced closure. I can say that there was someone in front of me who had venues here in Copenhagen and where it could be a long time before guests might come in with him again. So, yes, you can play ball up against the tripartite agreement, but what I actually asked was whether the Minister would be prepared to make a political agreement next door, so that you close that gap.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170056	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170058	Our starting point is that if we are to change the wage compensation system, we must do so in the tripartite institution and with the parties who sit there. And, of course, the government has regular meetings with the parties, where there is an opportunity to address different wishes. So, of course, we will listen to it if there are wishes there. However, the wage compensation scheme has been negotiated by the tripartite institution, which is why we also believe that changes in the wage compensation scheme should be dealt with in the tripartite institution.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170130	Thank you to the questioner. The next question is also to the Minister for Industry. It is from Eva Kjer Hansen, and the enquirer is Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170131	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170144	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that the hairdressers have still closed, although a new German study shows that a hairdresser visit is among the community activities associated with the lowest risk of infection?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170155	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170157	Thank you very much, and thank you for the question. There should be no doubt that the government does not, of course, want to hold onto this decommissioning for longer than is necessary. This also applies to the hairdressers, who were reopened at Bornholm from 1 March together with the other liberal services. I can inform you that the health authorities are continuously following experiences and new knowledge nationally as well as internationally, and that the expert group on mathematical modelling under the Statens Serum Institute is continuously carrying out calculations of various re-opening scenarios in the light of the evolution of infection, including the emergence of various viral mutations that will dominate the development of epidemics. There is also a re-opening of the liberal services in the rest of the country, which also includes hairdressers. The government's approach is that we have to phase out restrictions in a way that at the same time prevents infection from spreading too quickly, and therefore phasing out also needs to be done gradually and responsibly. And in my own area, the Ministry of Business and Industry, the reference group has considered that it is best to open committee stores before the hairdresser industry and other professional services. And this order the government has chosen to take as its starting point. The Government will regularly request advice and recommendations from the Epidemic Commission in order to receive the necessary professional assessments from the health authorities and experts. And, of course, I should also like to point out here that for those who are waiting to be part of the reopening, there are still aid packages from which help can be sought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170338	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170340	Thank you, Minister. Does the government have the subject at the party presidencies tomorrow? I mean, does the government have a move around hairdressers here in the reopening negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170351	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170354	There is no doubt that what we are looking into now, which is being negotiated with the party leaders, is the question of a long-term reopening plan: what should open in what order and when should it take place? And those parts of our society that have not yet been opened are being looked at to make the long-term plan. And that also includes, of course, that you will then look at when it is the right time to open the hairdressers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170425	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170426	Then the Minister wants to open the hairdressers now, if only so regionally, so that, for example, we can get rid of the hairdressers. can choose the model that if there are outbreaks in some places, can you close again? Well, why can't the hairdresser on Læsø be open?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170440	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170442	Well, I think we should learn from the experiments that are being made. Bornholm is a concrete very large experiment in which we can gain experience. And as I say, we do not want to keep anything closed one more day than is necessary, but the way in which we proceed in reopening we think we need to be so that we observe the overall pressure of infection and that we do so gradually and cautiously. That is why I cannot say in what order we end up placing the various economic activities. It must be based on what we can agree with the parties of the Folketing. So I look forward to the negotiations that are going on right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170517	Here you go to Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170531	Thank you. What I would like to ask the Minister is in connection with the German study, which shows that going to a hairdresser is actually one of the least risky if you compare it to going to a store or going to the swimming pool and many other things. Therefore, it is just so incomprehensible that the government insists that the Danish hairdresser salons should be closed, since the countries around us actually point out that it is one of the least contagious to visit the hairdresser at all. Can the Minister understand that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170616	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170619	Both-and. It is true that there are different studies in different countries and there are also different ways of accessing the reopening. This means that in some countries we see that we are now looking into a third wave, which, after all, we do not yet do in Denmark. So that makes me believe that we have chosen the right path. Does this mean that I am not impatient and would like to open the hairdressing profession? No, of course I would really like that, because it would mean the start of our economy, the start of our profession. But we have to observe the total pressure of infection, the total social activity, and then it becomes a puzzle where the pieces must lie in the right order. We then have political discussions with each other about this, that is to say what that order is. I do not know the detail of the German study, but I know that there are many, many studies and many different reopening measures in different countries, but we lean on the Danish calculations, and it is then calculated with the hairdressers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170714	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170715	But it is a huge step forward that, after all, it is intended to open up the professions, including, among other things, the professions. Hairdressers, and thank you for that. It's been hard to get there. We in the Left have been asking for it for weeks, and now I also hope that we are ready to listen to it. If it is now the case that that analysis actually points to exactly the same thing as in the countries around us, i.e. among other things. in Sweden and in Germany, is the Minister ready to open up to that part of the liberal professions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170750	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170751	I feel absolutely convinced, or at least I hope that we will succeed in making a political agreement, a political understanding, hopefully broad in the Folketing, where we can see the different social functions and the different professions, including the hairdressers. It is a bit early because negotiations are going on these days, but of course there is also hope for the government that we can say to the hairdressers soon: find out the scissors and start cutting us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170817	Thank you. Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen who asks.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170819	Yes, but it's not a very clear message from the minister to the hairdressers. So let me just try to ask another way: can the Minister confirm that with the knowledge of the hairdressers, it is a very low risk of infection associated with going to a hairdresser?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170839	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170840	Well, I'm sorry, but it's not any clearer than it can be. What we lean on in Denmark is what the Danish authorities calculate. And right now, this expert group is counting on mathematical modelling on what it will mean to reopen hairdressers and other liberal services. And the figures I don't know them myself, and I don't know if they're quite finished yet... will come in as pieces in the big negotiating room where you put the pieces in the order you now politically judge is the right thing to do. And it will be observing the overall pressure of infection and the overall social activity, so that we can continue along the path Denmark has succeeded so well with, namely that we have made a sound and gradual reopening that has not yet led to a third wave in Denmark at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170930	Thank you. The next question is also to the Minister for Industry and also from Eva Kjer Hansen with Ulla Tørnæs as a co-questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170937	Here you go, Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170937-2	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that Danish hairdressers are still covered by decommissioning while hairdressers in Sweden and Germany can stay open?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170945	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317170946	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. After all, the pandemic has developed differently in each country, and each country has its own approach to dealing with the coronapandemic. In Sweden I dare say one has had a more lenient approach than in Denmark, and I would rather not exchange the Swedish approach with the Danish one. However, as such, I will not comment on the concrete measures taken by other countries to limit the covid-19 or their motives for shutting down or reopening. Reopening is an incredibly difficult balance between socio-economic considerations, well-being and freedom, when the order, as we talked about a short time ago, of the reopening of society must be given priority, and this must therefore be done on the basis of professional assessments by health authorities and experts. The government receives input from the technical reference group and the mathematical modelling group of the Statens Serum Institute, and the government will of course regularly request advice and recommendations from the Epidemi Commission in order to receive the necessary professional assessments regarding re-opening from the health authorities and experts. I would just like to remind you once again that the government, together with the parties of the Folketing and the social partners, while reopening and decommissioning have been there, has chosen to extend the very wide safety net so that we can also help those who are not currently reopening but who have to wait for them to become part of the reopening plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317171118	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317171119	Thank you. In other words, the minister keeps riding around in general terms and we have to look at the wholes and now we have to make some calculations. It would certainly have been more interesting if the Minister had made some concrete calculations today and had not merely referred to them and to some general considerations. That is why my question to the Minister is: is it more dangerous to go to a hairdresser in Denmark than it is to go to a hairdresser in Germany or Sweden?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317171147	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317171148	I don't know if it's so dangerous with these general approaches to it, because the approaches I'm outlining here are the ones that have borne fruit in Denmark. That is what has made Denmark move as well through the pandemic as we have, and that we are now not on our way into a third wave, but on our way out of the second wave and can look into further reopening and make new plans. In relation to the infectious strain, if you can use that expression, by opening up concrete activities, we are leaning on what our modelling group brings out of calculations, and this will also be part of the specific debate that is currently under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317171229	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317171229-2	So it really is the Minister's view that it is a ban that we cannot go to the hairdresser, even if you can in Germany and you can in Sweden, and although there are studies that show that there is a very low risk of infection by going to the hairdresser, which helps prevent us from getting a third round of the pandemic. In other words, does the Minister really attribute such a great danger to being cut so much that precisely that is not what we should do, even regionally?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317171302	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317171303	We're going to go to the hairdresser again. We're gonna open up the hairdressers. That is what we are discussing right now with the parties of the Folketing in relation to being able to create a long-term reopening plan. But I would warn very much against it if the Left's approach is that we can also take it with us, and that we can also open a little more somewhere else, and that we can just open a little more a third place, because then it is, of course, that we will lose the grip on the pandemic that Denmark has had as its landmark, namely that we have managed the development of the infection and control of social activity, and that our reopening is gradual and responsible. That is what brings us from reopening to reopening and hopefully not to a new shutdown.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317171346	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317171347	I think it is a sad mistrust of the Danes, as expressed in the Minister's reply here. After all, the Danes know that this is serious, and the Danes have also taken the various instruments into account. I mean, we're sprinkling, we're wearing muzzles where it's required, and we're keeping our distance and so on. etc. And, of course, you will be able to respect that if you visit a hairdresser. Now the minister says: Yes, we will go to the hairdresser again. Yes, we do, but we must certainly hope that the hairdresser has not gone bankrupt in the meantime. Does not the costs which it has for Danish society to hold onto the decommissioning, as the government does, affect the Minister at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317171437	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317171438	I would like very strongly to reject the idea that I should have distrust of the Danes. That doesn't mean that I haven't had a hard time relying on the Left's approach to open a little here and a little there and a little extra, and we could do this as well. It is a dangerous strategy for the reopening of Denmark. It doesn't change the fact that it's really hard to be a hairdresser right now and to be shut down. It's been a long time. The box is empty. Some go to work with their own money to keep their staff, and that is why our aid packages still have to be there and they are still there and we have chosen to open up general access to them. But we must be careful that our reopening of Denmark is sound and gradual, because that is what makes the next thing we can negotiate an opening and not a shut-down. And that's what's going on right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317171524	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317171526	I would just like to stress, for the sake of order, that in the Left we are not putting up for a reckless re-opening. We have presented a plan that I actually understand that the Minister's boss, the Prime Minister, has acknowledged and praised. And in that plan, there is also the possibility of reopening the hairdressers. Does the Minister agree with this and therefore also agree with his boss, the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317171552	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317171553	I recognise that the Left also has a bid for what is going to happen in the next stages, and good for that, because that is what we are discussing right now. I just found that along the way, during the current reopening phase, which we are in the middle of now, we could also just open it and that but forgive if I have interpreted it further than it could be tightened up. But that also means that we may end up in a place where we are not so far apart: the left would like to open the hairdressers, the government would also like to open the hairdressers. Our approach is simply that the overall development of infection must be controlled when we do so. This is the prerequisite for new operators to come after the hairdressers, who can also open up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317171634	Thank you, Minister. Then it's Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen and there's a phone in the room that's buzzing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317171642	What is so unfortunate is that the Minister will not deal with what we are asking. Going to the hairdresser is categorized as being very low-risk. We can see that you can go to the hairdresser in Germany and Sweden, and when the Minister has to deal with how the reopening is to take place, it is, of course, that we are just asking: do we not take into account where there is a low risk of infection and where, as Mrs Ulla Tørnæs mentioned, there is enormous uncertainty and a great risk of very many hairdressers going bankrupt? So my question to the Minister is: when will the hairdressers open?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317171728	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317171728-2	I would really like to be able to answer that. But we both know that negotiations are under way right now with the parties of the Folketing. The left party, the government is involved, and that will be the specific date. Of course, we are divided into what burden it is to open up a particular business area. We had a discussion about this in relation to the large com mittee stores, we have had it with the hairdressers, we have had it with the shopping centres, and we will have it on a regular basis. But in Denmark we lean on the Danish authorities and the calculations they make. And I am quite sure that soon we will also know when the hairdressers can open. I hope, of course, that it can be soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317171807	Thank you to the questioner. The next question is also to the Minister for Industry. That's by Mr. Keating. Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317171812	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317171816	Thank you very much, sir. President. Does the Minister agree that companies that do nature dissemination, such as: Oyster King on Fanø and Merete Vigen in Varde, should be allowed to provide nature communication for up to 25 people, including companies that take associations out for example to see black sun?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317171835	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317171836	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for your question. Niels Flemming Hansen. Yes, I agree. And then we could have stopped there, but I'd better put a little more words on it, because, as I have said sometimes, of course, we also have to move forward gradually and controlled when we open up our society. And none of us want to hold onto this shutdown for longer than is necessary. However, we must not open up too quickly so that we risk having to face a situation where we have to find out what it is that we have to close to be careful that the infection gets under control again. I have a very great understanding of the difficult situation that many companies find themselves in, including companies who make a living offering hiking, nature experiences, etc. And that is why I am also pleased that, together with the parties of the Folketing and the social partners, we have stretched out a broad safety net with aid packages for all those companies that continue to be affected by restrictions and that we have taken a number of steps to reopen society. Together with the Danish Parliament's parties, we have among other things. could open up to resume outdoor sports and association activities with up to 25 people. This means that associations, for example. again can arrange hiking trips along the North Sea with more than 5 people, and that a company e.g. can arrange an event for an association. It can, for example, be done. be a hike or other nature dissemination activities for the members of the association. Of course, I fully understand the desire to allow us to open up more to business. It is in my job description as Minister of Business, and we also have an ongoing dialogue with the profession on how we can do it, and in the government and with the corporate corana unit and in the sectoral partnerships that we have at the same time. And, as you know, we are currently engaged in discussions with the parties of the Folketing, including the party of the questioner, with a view to reaching an agreement on a long-term plan for the reopening of Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172032	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172033	I guess I was gonna tell you I was gonna stop the video footage right after "Yeah." The only problem is that the biggest competitor, for example. black sun or oyster sapphires, etc. I am sure we have the same in the trade minister's pastorat which opens up trips with 25 guests. They can do so because they are a cultural institution which even receives public support. This means that private companies lose customers to publicly supported companies that do the same job and that only 5 guests are allowed out. After all, the Minister is responsible for the Danish economy and thus the independent economic operators, and I want to hear what the Minister intends to do about that problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172125	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172126	In addition to trying to provide some kind of information on the possibilities that, after all, exist, so that, as a self-employed person in this industry, too, you can make yourself felt, for example. It is one of the things that we will have to discuss further when our party leaders meet for negotiations on the further reopening. It is not the case that the government wants there not to be these opportunities, but it has to be in keeping with the overall social activities and pressures of infection that are in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172208	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172209	Thank you very much. However, the pressure of infection is no different for the private company than it is for the publicly supported company. This is what we call a kind of public theft, as I see it at least. Municipalities do it free of charge, and companies say no to private companies' initiative in this area. Will the Minister at least say yes to the fact that he will look at cleaning up the issue of public theft in general?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172242	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172243	I do not like the expression that there should be stealing. I have the approach that we can make so much of the strength we have in this society if the public and private enrich each other and play each other good. That is why, of course, it is also a pity that we are bumping into examples such as what we have here, because there is going to be an unfortunate gap. Unfortunately, I do not think it can be any different when we are in the process of a gradual, cautious re-opening of society. I hope that the distinction that the questioner is bringing into the Parliamentary Chamber is something that we can wash out with the agreement that we hope will soon be made with the parties of the Folketing in connection with the reopening of society, because it is a temporary situation, and we all want there to be equal opportunities for what was here before the decommissioning took place.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172339	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172342	I don't have any more questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172344	The next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Business, is also by Niels Flemming Hansen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172351	Will the Minister clarify the guidelines to the self-employed so that there is no doubt as to whether they are allowed to engage in nature dissemination activities?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172401	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172402	Thank you for another good question. I fully understand the situation in which many companies find themselves and that there is also a great desire to have clarity and predictability in relation to how companies are faced in this difficult time. That is why we are always trying in the best way to guide companies on the covid-19 situation, on the current restrictions and recommendations that apply to companies, and on the possibility of compensation. We do this both on what is called the Company Guide, on coronasmitte.dk and through other information and communication channels. Of course, we do so with the aim of ensuring that there is clear and precise business-oriented communication that can be used for something, not least communication about how companies should deal with the organisation of nature dissemination activities. I can therefore inform the questioner that, on the basis of the question raised here in Parliament today, I also intend to ask the Danish Business Administration to clarify in the Business Guide and other relevant places what opportunities there are for companies wishing to conduct outdoor events and sports events within the applicable rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172517	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172517-2	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to read from an e-mail that I got from Merete Vigen, which we mentioned before. She describes how she called the Danish Business Authority's Coronahotline, where they were nice and welcoming and thank you for it. But they couldn't really answer her about whether or not she had to do activities in relation to nature and culture dissemination. She was transferred to the Danish Cultural Authority, which forwarded her to the Ministry of Culture, where she was promised that an employee would call her. It happened, and she talked to another nice employee who couldn't answer her, but she could send the e-mail to an agency that she couldn't get in touch with by telephone. Then she would be contacted, and so was she, and the nice colleague from the Ministry of Culture, who called back, could not get an answer when she wrote to them either. Then she was told it's the police who decide whether they can do this or not. The situation is just that the police are a little bit confused about this issue. We are also dealing with an example where a company in the South-West Jutland area gets a refusal from the police to make oyster safari. The man from the company cancels all his activities as he had planned for more than 25 people; he had first received a yes to them. By the way, these were events worth 200,000 kroner that he lost. It's happening up here against Easter. It then goes on for 14 days, after which he gets a new assessment from the police, and it says that the police's interpretation has now changed and that he is allowed to take up to 25 people on oyster safari because they have found that it can be equated with sport and recreational fishing, where you can have events with up to 25 people. This is a rather crazy situation, which is why I am glad that the Minister is clarifying this to the Danish Business Administration. This makes me very happy, and I am quite sure that this has not been the intention of the Minister at all. My commandment is that the official work has simply been written something so legally difficult to understand so that it has not been understood. Will the Minister try to see if we can have this explained in a humane way?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172737	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172740	Yes, I can promise the questioner I will. I'm really sorry, because one thing is that society is shut down. You can understand that; there's a reason for that, because we have to take care of each other, and we have to get out of this devilry we're in, but sending people who may have a hard time getting the company to hang together, from Herod to Pilate, then not getting concrete answers, is very difficult to explain, and I don't see myself able to do that here either. So what I'm going to do is, of course, to get to grips with our own management in order to clarify the information we have available and, of course, also ask that the relevant authorities to which we refer people, if they call on this subject, are similarly updated with what is the right communication here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172827	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172828	Thank you very much. I can also inform you that the same company, which we have mentioned a few times during the day, has not received compensation packages because the owner has taken a job in another company but is paid through his CVR number and therefore cannot be compensated for his own business. And it also brings a problem; I hope the Minister will look at that too. And then I very much hope that we will be able to open up the dissemination of nature here against Easter, where we have an expectation that hopefully there will be a hurry again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172900	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172901	It is difficult for me to go into the specific circumstances surrounding a single company's application for compensation. However, if we can make some things even more lavish, if we can perhaps make some association safari, or if we can get some activity going in some way, in other words within the framework that is here, where we are now in relation to the reopening, then we must be able to make use of it, and we must be able to do so by means of an oyster safari. So I will certainly leave Parliament today with the question that has been raised and with the task of clarifying communication, and it will be started as soon as I get back to the office.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172938	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172940	Then we say thank you to the Minister for Industry and to the questioner. The next question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and that is what Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, and as a co-questioner we have Mrs Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172954	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317172956	Thank you, President. Why has the Minister put forward a proposal on asylum in third countries with an extremely wide exemption for asylum seekers, who nevertheless have to have their case dealt with in Denmark, when in the proposal of the Social Democratic Party there is no exception at all to who should be sent to the third country concerned to have his case dealt with but, on the other hand, it says directly that a request for asylum in Denmark no longer leads to a stay in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317173030	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317173053	Thank you for the question. The government, as the first government here in Denmark, has done the legal legwork and, on the basis of this, is now presenting a legislative proposal that provides us with the framework for transferring asylum seekers to proceedings in a third country when an agreement is in place. Because there is and should not be free immigration to Denmark. We must have better control over who enters Denmark must be controlled by ourselves and not by traffickers. It is true that an application for asylum in Denmark as a starting point should no longer lead to an admission ticket to the Danish welfare society. Instead, we want to move asylum procedures and possible protection beyond Denmark's borders. However, it is a prerequisite for the government that the scheme should be designed within the framework of our international commitments. That is what we said before the elections and when we took office as a government, that is to say that we must respect international conventions at all times, and that has not changed now either. The starting point is that spontaneous asylum seekers who enter Denmark and seek asylum will be covered by the system unless our international obligations say the opposite in the case of each asylum seeker, for example. when it comes to very seriously ill people. Then we take responsibility for the asylum procedure in Denmark. My expectation is that this will be very few cases. At the same time, I also have a clear expectation that, with the scheme we are proposing, we will see a marked drop in the number of spontaneous asylum seekers in Denmark once the scheme has been put in place. As I have said, the government is about to put forward a bill which we regard as an important and necessary step on the road to a better asylum system, where we can help more people closer to the conflicts, where Denmark will have better control over asylum immigration, where it is the United Nations' quota allocation and not human smugglers who decide who is going to be here and where we do not have a huge financial bill and security threat with rejected asylum seekers, and of course we also hope that the Danish People's Party will be able to back this up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317173244	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317173245	That was an excellent answer, but I am not quite sure it was an answer to my question. So what we are referring to is this proposal, which I think the Minister must be aware of. It is at least the Minister's party chairman, the current Prime Minister, who is on the front page of the play-out from 5 February 2018. There you can read on page 13: Asylum treatment must take place in a reception centre outside Europe. There is no such thing as a starting point or with reservations or anything like that; on the contrary, it is written directly, as I have also explained in the question here: "A request for asylum in Denmark therefore no longer leads to a stay in Denmark. No reservations, no exceptions. If you look at the bill sent by the Minister in consultation, you can see that there is resonance in relation to the title of the new chapter 5. It says: Rejecting foreigners and transferring asylum seekers to third countries. So far, so good. The problem is that when you move down the text here, there is suddenly an exception in section 29 (1). 2 which does not lay down any criteria as to when you will not be sent to a third country, but leaves it entirely to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration to decide this sort of thing. If you then read down the remarks, it all starts to fall apart, because suddenly there are exceptions that say that if the asylum seeker has a family member some cousin or cousin, or what do I know in Denmark, he is not going to this third country anyway. If he or she is ill, he or she does not have to go to this third country anyway. If there are special resource considerations, then this third country should not be taken into account either. And if it's an unaccompanied minor, he's not going to this third country either. It doesn't take so much imagination to imagine that if you are such a whole family who would like to go to Denmark, you send the unaccompanied 17-year-old first, after which the rest of the family can get to Denmark without having to go to a third country. And there's just what I'm saying: where did all this come about? Where can you find it, Minister? 'Cause I can't read it in the Social Democrat proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317173447	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317173448	I understand that it all coincides with the questioner when he reads that bill. I had it just the opposite myself, I think it was all connected. I think that, for the first time, there was a coherent legal structure before me, which describes how not only Denmark, but, hopefully, in the long term, Europe can resolve the enormous problem of the asylum system being abused today by so many people to put their feet down on European soil and deal with their asylum applications, possibly with a stay or with the problem that we are faced with a rejected asylum seeker. In the project we presented in 2018 • Legal and Realistic • It is quite clear that the model we have chosen is that it should be possible to implement it within the framework of the international conventions. The draft law to which the honourable Member refers describes precisely how it is to be linked and that there will be exceptional cases. If a reception centre is located in a specific third country and if an asylum seeker comes from that third country, then it goes without saying that, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections. can not transfer him or her to his or her own country and say that he or she must be in protection in the country from which he or she claims to need asylum. I think it makes perfect sense. And as I also said in my speech, there will be very few examples that will be the exception. The main rule will be that people seeking asylum in Denmark will have to have dealt with their asylum applications outside Europe's borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317173600	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317173601	Thank you, President. That is simply not what it says. In other words, what is written here is well enough in a fact box, and I quote: Denmark must comply with the international conventions that we have signed. The reception centre is organised in a way that complies with Danish law and international rules. The security and treatment of asylum cases in the reception centre must comply with Danish standards and legal certainty. So, the impression you get here is not that all those conventions mean that there are still a lot of exceptions where asylum seekers have to stay in Denmark anyway. I really think it would suit the Minister either to say that this was a scam to get the Danes to vote for the Social Democracy, or to say that you are going to put forward a new bill that does not have this very, very wide paragraph. 2.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317173642	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317173644	It wasn't a hoax. It was the first coherent idea of how Danish asylum policy can be organized in the future. We are not going to table a new bill. I think this is the most important step forward for Danish asylum policy that we have been presenting by this government or by other governments for a very long time. It is clear that this is the framework for a reception centre; it is not the agreement on a third country itself. However, this is an important legal step along the way, and I really hope that there will be a broad majority in the Folketing who will support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317173712	Thank you. Then there's a co-questioner, and that's Mrs. Inger Løjberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317173716	Thank you. Well, I'm completely puzzled on the same terms as Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt, because when you read the report from the Social Democratic Party, these reservations, which are now contained in the bill, are not written in. That is why I would just like to know: when did these reservations come in?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317173736	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317173738	It is clear from the proposal we have put to the vote that what we want to achieve must be within the framework of the international conventions. After the elections, we have asked the lawyers, both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration and the Ministry of Justice, to draw up a concrete model: how can we create a reception centre and a fairer asylum system within the framework of international conventions? That's the bill that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt was just referring to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317173802	No. It may well be that that is what the draft law says, but that is just not what the Social Democrats proposed in the run-up to the elections on how to deal with asylum in the future. So I'm just asking, when did these reservations come in? It was certainly not up to the elections, so they must have come in afterwards. When did the Minister become aware that the election was not possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317173830	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317173832	As Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has just referred to, it is very clear that the whole idea of a reception centre must be realised within the framework of international conventions. I myself, as rapporteur for foreigners before the elections, have produced a series of interviews, and at no time have we concealed, even at the press conference where we presented it, that this should be done within the framework of international conventions. There is, as an old prime minister said, nothing to come by here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317173855	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317173857	We will probably be more determined, Minister, because I think that the Danish electorate will be quite puzzled when they find out that what is at the bottom of the fact box on page 13, which immediately read shows that the conventions must be observed in the reception centres, has suddenly turned into a series of exceptions, which, after all, makes this bill have more holes than a regular Swiss cheese, and which makes it necessary to put a huge question mark not only on the will of the government to implement what was promised before one became a government, but also on the integrity of what was presented before the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317173934	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317173936	To be honest, I actually think the questioners are punching an empty hole in the air here. For decades, social democracy has been in favour of compliance with international conventions. This is clear from the programme we have put forward. We have said it at the press conference, and I have mentioned it myself in countless interviews. No social democrat has ever said that we are going to implement this new asylum system outside the framework of international conventions. That would have been a surprise and huge news. So I am reasonably confident that the Danish electorate knows very well that the Social Democrats in Denmark respect that we comply with the international rules that we ourselves have signed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317174013	Thank you. The question is closed. There is a new question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317174021	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317174021-2	Thank you, President. How does the Minister imagine that his new proposal for asylum in a third country can contribute to stopping the life-threatening, risky and uncontrollable flight across the Mediterranean, as the Social Democratic Party wrote in the motion "Righteous and realistic" when the proposal put forward by the government is based on the fact that asylum seekers should nevertheless apply in Denmark and only part of these are subsequently sent to the third country in question?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317174045	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317174046	Thank you very much for the question, which is why the government has actually put forward such a proposal based on the need for asylum seekers to come to Denmark to seek asylum. There is a very simple reason for this. First of all, it is because it would be too disastrous for both Denmark and Europe if we again experienced the refugee crisis we saw in 2015, when people went on motorways. That is why we need to think new and innovatively in foreign policy, and that is what the government is trying to do. Although the number of asylum seekers by 2020 is the lowest in all the time the figure has been recorded in the current way • i.e. Since 1998 the challenge of illegal migration does not seem to be diminishing. We are looking into a world where migrants continue to move towards Europe in the hope of a better life without necessarily needing protection. They are using the asylum system to enter Europe, although more than half of them are not entitled to protection as a refugee. It challenges our security and our cohesion in Denmark. At the same time, many refugees are in camps in the neighbourhood and do not have the opportunity to skip the queue by paying a smuggler to come to Europe; they need help. On average, this costs the Danish state approx. 300,000 kroner. to accommodate one rejected asylum seeker a year, and we think that money could have been spent better elsewhere, for example. to help more people closer to the conflicts. That is why we are proposing to move asylum treatment out of Denmark. This would remove the incentive to move up here at all. I do not believe that an asylum seeker will pay a large sum of money to a human smuggler to travel thousands of kilometres at great risk of abuse along the way, jump in an overcrowded dinghy across the Mediterranean Sea, expose himself to danger of life, seek towards Denmark if an asylum application does not provide an entry ticket for a long-term stay in a welfare state such as Denmark. That is why I also expect us to see a significant reduction in the number of spontaneous asylum seekers in Denmark with a reception centre scheme. The concern about the number of exceptions to the system expressed by the questioner will also be infinitely small. Once we have an agreement, I expect that virtually no one will want to go to Denmark to seek asylum. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317174251	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317174251-2	Thank you, President. But that doesn't make any sense, Minister. So what the Minister is proposing is that in the refugee-producing countries there are some people who want to try their luck. And it's just more convenient to be asylumant in Denmark than in, for example. Greece. So I guess you don't still take the trip up the Mediterranean and on up to Denmark. Then it says so directly in the proposal put forward by the government that individual treatment must be granted. This means that it has to be assessed whether you can get in through these giant holes that the government has put up: if you have a family member, you are too sick, you are a minor, etc.? Only if one cannot then come under one of those derogations should one be sent back to a third country which we do not yet know it is then another discussion. But how on earth would that setup lead to what the Social Democrats and the Minister have promised the voters, namely, and I quote: "A reception centre can help to stop the life-threatening, risky and uncontrollable flight across the Mediterranean Sea. It's gonna ruin the people smugglers' business model. How on earth does it come about when the prerequisite for getting to this centre in some third country is that you come into Denmark? That doesn't make any sense. What, on the other hand, is becoming clearer and clearer here is that the Social Democrats have tried to intimidate over two chairs. It has been tried to tell the voters of the Danish People's Party: Don't worry, you can vote for us, because if refugees come to Denmark, we send them to some third country; there are a lot of exceptions, but we don't tell the voters about that, because it's just disturbing before a parliamentary election. On the other hand, it was well known that the whole left side would be extremely upset that you were suddenly so mean to these little, sweet refugees, so it was better to say: well, it's all about going against all these people smugglers. The problem is, it's all a scam and a scam and an empty talk, Minister!
ParlaMint-DK_20210317174448	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317174449	Once again we are in a situation where it does not make sense for the questioner, but for me it is perfectly obvious and logical that if people come to Denmark and seek asylum, we say: Thank you very much for your application for asylum, but in Denmark it is the case that you will not live at an asylum centre in Denmark while we treat it. You want to live outside Europe. And to the extent you need protection, you will also have protection outside Europe. And to the extent that you do not need protection, you will have to be repatriated from the country where you are staying outside Europe. So I believe that the number of asylum applications in Denmark will be approaching zero, for who, however, would spend all the money and all the time and resources and run the risk of moving all the way to Denmark and seeking asylum? Who would do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317174533	I have a very good answer to that. It could be minors; it could be sick; it could be people who have a family member in Denmark; it could be those who are covered by the many derogations that the Minister is proposing. In other words, all the experience of recent years shows that the people who are trying to enter Europe are actually fairly well informed about how to do it, where to go, etc. After all, the minister is not generally known as a naive type, so how can he think that we're going to have peace with us or at least his constituents can believe this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317174608	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317174609	The absolute principle will be that you want to stay outside Europe while your asylum application is being examined, and then we are left with the absolute exception that you have to be in Denmark while your asylum application is being examined here. And as I said in my answer to the previous question, it will be very, very few cases that are at stake. I think it makes very good sense that if a reception centre is located in a specific third country and that it is from exactly the third country that you have emigrated and have come to Denmark and sought asylum, then of course you should not be able to be sent to your own country. It gives itself, as I also think it goes without saying, that if you are so ill, you can say that you are sick. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we are going to be able to cope with transport, the application for asylum will be dealt with here. I think we should welcome the fact that we are now looking at a legislative proposal which makes it legally possible to implement it here. I think we should be pleased about that. I understand that it is perfectly legitimate to have a political discussion about the holes in the cheese, but there is also a cheese.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317174702	Thank you. Then there's a co-questioner. Here you go, Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317174705	Thank you. I'd like to know a little bit about how big the holes in that cheese are when you're going to buy it if you have to. Does the Minister have any figures on how many people are expected to take advantage of the opportunity to actually be here, for example? Underage? So, as I know, there have been long periods in which a great many minors have come to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317174729	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317174730	It is true that the number of unaccompanied minors seeking asylum in Denmark varies quite a lot, and we do not have concrete figures on it, because it would be quite impossible and irresponsible to estimate a figure on it, but as far as I have come I can say that it will be very few and that it will be the absolute exception. I also believe that some of what becomes absolutely crucial is that the period during which we are doing the initial treatment will be as short as possible that we keep it down in a few weeks, because if it is still going to be a few months, people will start to hang on in Denmark. It will be absolutely crucial that the initial screening goes as quickly as possible. Fortunately, we already have some good experience here, but the questioner knows that with the apparently groundless procedure, where we have a fairly quick procedure, and it is crucial that we can do so as soon as people have crossed the border.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317174818	All right, but now it is not really the group we are talking about; we are talking, for example. on those who are ill and I know that asylum treatment can be very long. So that completely contradicts what the Minister is saying here. And I cannot imagine that such a radical change in the whole asylum system will be proposed if it was right to do so and then have not looked at the extent of the gaps in the cheese, if that is the case, all the exceptions that exist. How large is the volume of it? I just can't imagine that you haven't done that. But again: Minors typically take relatively long to get asylum treatment, the same with the sick, and the same if families are to be identified. In fact, these are precisely the groups for which there are exceptions, and that is why I simply do not think it is related.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317174910	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317174911	But it is clear that the greater the total number of asylum seekers, the greater the proportion will be, it is my best guess which must nevertheless have dealt with their asylum applications in Denmark. That's also why it's relevant that when you make a system like this here, the total number of asylums will all other things just drop... everything else equal... because the incentive to move all the way up here will be gone. And that is why there is also an internal link between the total number of asylums and how many will be in this exception provision.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317174942	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317174942-2	In other words, those who come here, if this were to happen, would be the ones who know what the exception is. So it will be minors and sick who will still be sitting in the boats with the smugglers. That makes no sense, and it certainly does not realize what the Social Democrats said to the electorate in the run-up to the elections should be the consequence of this proposal. So let me just ask: in the light of everything we know now and this I can promise the Minister is only the beginning... will the Minister consider reviewing the proposal that has been made?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175021	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175022	I would like to start by saying that I am glad that this is only the beginning, because I only have an interest in discussing this bill. And to the extent that, within the framework of the conventions, it is possible to ensure that the derogation is as small as possible, we are only in favour of discussing it. However, I would like to stress that none of these groups will be covered by these exceptions, which will in future have better opportunities to stay in Denmark and have their asylum case dealt with than they have today. After all, it is only a question of the fact that for the whole of the remaining division the general rule is that they will not have the opportunity to be in Denmark while they have their asylum case dealt with. So there's not a single paragraph in the bill that would in itself mean that more people wouldn't even go to Denmark to seek asylum.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175104	Thank you. The question is closed. There's a new minister and a new questioner. This is a question for the Minister for Employment of Mrs Victoria Velasquez, the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175113	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175117	It's Enhedslisten, but it's fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175119	I'm sorry, it's Enhedslisten, of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175120	I have to read the question out loud and it is as follows: what will the Minister do now that the assessment by the Council's legal service on the EU-wide minimum wage has arrived?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175135	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175137	Thank you to Mrs Victoria Velasquez for her question. This is a matter which is so much of a concern to all of us that I know it also applies to the Enhedslisten, but in reality to virtually all parties in the Danish Parliament and also for very good reason. We have now received the long-awaited legal assessment from the Council's legal service and it is an assessment which the Council's legal service, among other things, has received. in Danish indførelse had gotten i updrag at udarbejde. On the Danish side, we will continue to fight for no regulation to undermine the Danish labour market model directly or indirectly. Fortunately, we are not fighting this battle alone, as there is broad support here in the Danish Parliament to safeguard the Danish model. We are also fighting together with the social partners, who reach out to their European colleagues. Because it is the autonomy of the parties that we are fighting to protect, and that is why I have ongoing contact with DA and FH on the matter. We are also fighting with other Member States which share our scepticism about the proposal for a directive on appropriate minimum wages for one reason or another. We want to bring together as many countries as possible. As I have previously told you, I am running a close pair of races with my Swedish colleague, and we continue to do so, and I have called the group of sceptical Member States to a video meeting to discuss the assessment and the further process. Right now I am awaiting further information on the Portuguese Presidency's plans for the further process. But the fight to protect the Danish model continues with the same strength and unnervingness.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175310	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175311	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. This is also very much in line with the discussions we have had, where we have in Article 153 of the Treaty of Lisbon. 5, we can see that the provisions of this article do not apply to pay, the right of association, the right to strike or the right to lock out, and, after the assessment by the Council's legal service, we find that neither the service nor the Commission believe that that article stands in the way of this directive. We do not agree with that in the Enhedslisten, and I am also pleased to hear that the Minister does not agree with it either. In the past it has been announced that the Minister would wait for the services to assess the legal basis, and there I would like to know a little more precisely what the Minister thinks about the legal basis in that part, and here I am also thinking of some of what the Minister has already said, among other things. in an interview with Politiken on 29 January 2021, and I quote: "Right now, the EU's legal service is examining whether the directive is legal, because in the EU Treaty, the EU cannot dictate wages. That's up to the countries themselves. So, to get around it, the Commission has made wages a working environment in which the EU has competence. This is where I think you've just been legally creative. We fully agree with that in the Enhedslisten, although the directive is still indirectly about pay. That is why I am curious to hear a little more precisely whether the Minister is still of that conviction or whether the assessment by the legal service has played a part there. There is also another part of the interview that I quoted from before and where, in relation to whether the fight is over and lost, the Minister says, and I quote: 'No, and we will try everything we can, and it has been seen innumerable times that directives never come into existence. However, I would like to ask: what is the Minister going to do now and with the good meetings and everything that is coming? Will the directive do as little damage as possible? Or will it be done in such a way that the directive does not materialise? What are the government's priorities and the Minister's priorities now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175524	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175526	These were long questions, of course, but if I am to get to the heart of the matter, I must say first of all that the interpretation which the Commission has and which the Council's legal service, I must also agree with, the Commission agrees, in my view and with the conditions under which we in Denmark have discussed whether there is a legal basis in the Treaty on European Union to intervene in the way in which we agree on wages and working conditions is equally creative. Having said that, it is clear that I do not think it is either or that we are either working to prevent the directive or we are making sure that the damage is minimized. What is crucial for us in the first place is to keep on sticking to the alliance of countries that are sceptical about this proposal and to ensure that we stand on as common a basis as possible in the further discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175621	Thank you, and here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175623	In relation to what the Minister is going to do now, I would like to hear what the Minister is thinking about the latest estimate that has passed the level of coverage made by the FAOS. It says that the organisation is either 64.3%. or 68.4%, depending on how you figure it out. After all, the proposal for a directive provides for an exemption from certain obligations with a coverage ratio of more than 70%. Is there anything in relation to this specific part that the Minister is thinking in particular of using in relation to the set aside to get even more people to pay attention to what is happening here or to put pressure on it so that something has to be done about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175701	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175702	First of all, in relation to the FAOS report that has been prepared, I think it is very worrying about the trend we have seen, and that in fact I think there are some of the figures below which are even more worrying, namely the proportion that is not covered by the agreement, but are members of the organisations which are actually involved in negotiating the agreements. It looks even worse. What we intend to do and will do is that, as far as possible, we, together with the other sceptical countries, if they share our position, will do everything we can to try to prevent this proposal from coming into being. We didn't want it. We do not want any kind of interference in the way we agree our wages and working conditions in Denmark. However, it is also clear that, if the other countries do not agree or start to enter the negotiating room, we will have to discuss and decide at some point how to proceed with this smartest.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175802	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175803	Thank you for your clear speech. I would like to ask you further about this and then the Minister can also have the opportunity to round it up: does the Minister assess that there is support for the formation of a blocking minority in the Council?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175816	It is not my assessment at this stage that there is. Even with the nine or so countries that we are in this group of sceptical countries that have sent a joint letter to the Commission, we are well off being able to create a blocking minority. But it doesn't mean we're sitting on our hands. After all, we still have several bilateral discussions with other countries, we are trying to hold onto the alliance that exists, and there are still plenty of discussions in it. For some of what the Council's legal service considers there is a greater doubt about the legal basis for, is, of course, as to whether one also has the right to intervene in those countries where there are statutory minimum wages, and that is to say that which does not concern us but which may concern other countries. We will also try to draw the attention of other countries to precisely that problem in order to create the broadest possible basis on which to stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175908	Thank you. Here you go for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175909	No, I think I put it down. But I have the next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175917	Yes, there is one more question, and it is also to the Minister for Employment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175920	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175920-2	Thank you. As a newcomer, I then came to make two questions, but I use the opportunity to get to the bottom of the subject. I read the question out loud: has the assessment of the Council's legal service changed the Minister's position on the EU-wide minimum wage?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175937	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317175940	Once again, thank you to Mrs Victoria Velasquez, also for this question. No, my political position remains that we do not want a directive on minimum wages in the European Union and that we must do everything we can to prevent it and combat it. This is because we do not want any EU regulation that could undermine the Danish model. The government certainly does not support a directive, but, as I have already pointed out, it may be necessary to sit at the negotiating table to gain influence if it is not possible to create a blocking minority. We will try everything we can to prevent this directive, and it has been seen that directives never come into being or that a proposal is being amended. If we cannot prevent a directive, we must and will do what we can to ensure that it causes as little damage to the Danish labour market model as possible. The current process has been explained in the answer to the previous question, and I will send the European Committee and the Employment Committee later this week a confidential briefing on the opinion of the Council's Legal Service, which the Ministry of Employment has produced in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. I have offered the Committee on European Affairs and the Committee on Employment to go further into dialogue on the matter once they have received the information, and I will repeat that offer. And let me stress again that I very much appreciate the good and close cooperation we have in this important matter between the parties of the Folketing and the government. Let me finish my answer with the same message as in my answer to spm. No. S 1127, namely that the government will fight for no regulation to undermine the Danish labour market model directly or indirectly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317180118	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317180120	Thank you. The question was a little like some of what we discussed earlier, but I would like to turn it a little towards some of what the Minister was talking about. This is something that the Minister has said earlier to Politiken, namely: I think it is both a pity and a cause for concern that the European Union is choosing this path. Over the years, many of us have stood up for the European Union in the assembly halls and have always been able to say to people that the European Union would not come and regulate pay and working conditions. As the old campaigns said, we are the ones who break the nuts. Now the EU is taking a step in that direction. In addition, the Minister says: "I would very much like to secure proper wages for workers in countries without strong trade unions, but this is not the right way. And if you are finally going down that road, you could make a full exception for countries that have labour market models like ours. But you don't dare. I understand from the Minister that there are still ambitions along with the Enhedslisten, the trade union movement and others. to try to ensure that Denmark gets a full derogation from the directive, but does the Minister think that this would be realistic? Are there any pitfalls in relation to this, according to the previous question about the degree of organisation in Denmark? What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317180239	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317180240	First of all, I would like to say that if we are to say something nice, and I think we should and should actually do so, I have no doubt for a second that the Commission has taken a great deal of thought and effort to find a cut that meets the strong political desire in many parts of Europe, including within the Commission itself, to promote a proposal that can help to increase wages for Europe's lowest-paid people. It is, moreover, an ambition that we also share, and I also believe that Enhedslisten does so because many of Europe's employees have been lagging behind in the area of pay for many years. And then you've also tried to...
ParlaMint-DK_20210317180321	Thank you! We must try to keep to the speaking time, even though it is difficult. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317180327	Thank you. I hope the Minister will be able to comment on that in the second remark. So I will try to ask again: when the Minister is talking about this sitting at the table at the same time, in general terms, by trying in parallel to prevent the damage, what are some things that the Minister is particularly concerned about? I am also thinking here of the fact that this directive could set a precedent for further EU action in the regulation of labour market models.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317180355	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317180355-2	One of the things we are concerned about most of all is: if we do not succeed in one way or another in preventing this from happening or changing it so that it becomes a Council recommendation or whatever it may be, then it is crucial that it is absolutely clear that individual rights cannot be supported by this directive. In fact, the Council's legal service also states that in their interpretation they are based on the fact that there are no individual rights to support it, because then they do not believe that there is a basis for the Treaty. These are some of the things we need to drill out more and which we are analysing together with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But that will be one of the things I would like to point out, which is very, very crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317180445	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317180456	Thank you. Then I would just like to ask the Minister to reply to what the Minister thinks is the next step, what the plan is from here and what the Minister thinks it can succeed in getting through.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317180510	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317180512	Specifically, the next step is that, together with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at home, we are in the process of reading carefully every sentence in the Council's legal service's assessment so that we can best qualify the discussions we must have with each other, between Parliament and government. In concrete terms, I also have a meeting tomorrow morning with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats). From Danish and Danish I dare also say Swedish side, I think, we agree to do all we can to keep that group of countries together in the further discussions ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317180555	Thank you. Then there is a new question for the Minister for Employment, and that is from Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317180557	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317180603	The question is: what is the Minister's vision and objective in the area of unemployment benefits, and will the Minister state his opinion on what the length of the benefit period should be, what the level of the benefit rate should be, what is the level of compensation and the ceiling, and what the compensation requirement should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317180640	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317180641	Thank you to Mrs Jette Gottlieb for her question. The daily allowance system is a cornerstone of the Danish flexicurity model. This provides safety for workers and flexibility for companies. Therefore, the benefit system must continue to be an attractive insurance scheme and a fundamental safeguard against loss of income in connection with unemployment. It is a clear goal for me that the benefit system and the Danish model are strong and solid, also in 100 years' time. With regard to the period of benefit and the requirement to earn, the areas that the benefit commission also looked at are those. They did not consider it necessary to change the basic conditions of the two-year period of unemployment benefit and the requirement to earn one year's full-time employment. However, provision was made for the possibility that all employment during the benefit period, including short-term employment, could be used to extend the benefit period for up to one year. Against this background, I believe that the current rules for the period of earning and unemployment benefit are basically sensible, but I am of course listening if anyone has arguments to the contrary. The level of the daily allowance rate also concerns the government. The regulation of the daily allowance does not follow the general trend in wages. There is a minor regulation which most of the Danish Parliament's parties have joined. I do not wish to deny that we will look at the level of compensation in the benefit system, but we may also have to be honest that in the very short run, the government has a full focus on dealing with the Corona crisis. I am always responsive when there are good suggestions to strengthen the Danish flexicurity model. I would also like suggestions on how to find the money we need in order to strengthen and improve it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317180828	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317180829	Well, that's a slightly unusual article 20 question. We don't drill into any detail and try to impal the minister on it. On the contrary, we are trying to ask the Minister to give us vision of how we can repair an ailing benefit system. We can look at many things: over 300,000 people seem to think that unemployment benefits are inadequate and that they have taken out additional insurance or alternative wage insurance. The number of people opting out of the box is increasing, and we can see that the corona has given a bright light to the inadequacy. In all aid packages, including for the small self-employed, a higher amount has been used as a reasonable substitute for lost earnings, i.e. DKK 23,000. per month, instead of the DKK 19,332 for which the maximum daily subsistence allowance is in 2021. Isn't that thought-provoking? And does the Minister agree that this is a decision by the Minister, where he can decide that a higher rate of unemployment benefit is to be registered for a coming year, for example? they mentioned 23,000 kroner. per month? Is it not also thought-provoking that more and more people are employed on special terms such as casual workers, part-time workers, temporary workers or freelance workers, as well as the many hourly wage workers we already know in the large proportion of material production, and for whom the rules on daily allowances and income rules are considerably more difficult to meet?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317180953	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317180954	I fully agree with Mrs Jette Gottlieb that there are many thought-provoking and also worrying trends in the area of unemployment benefits. I think Mrs Jette Gottlieb has mentioned a few of them. I do not think that the problem is the a-boxes that offer supplementary insurance where the a-box is a basic foundation. I think the challenge lies where freestanding insurance starts to offer something that does not require an attachment to an insurance fund, by the way. So there are plenty of worrying trends, and I am happy to discuss it all, both with Enhedslisten, but also with the rest of the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317181036	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317181037	But can the Minister hear that it is a collective trade union movement that is now on the move and is proposing that the level of unemployment benefit should necessarily be increased because the benefits no longer represent the safety net assumed when the social partners negotiate wage and working conditions? And is the Minister aware that the question of the level of unemployment benefit does not form part of any of the settlements reached by the Social Democratic Party, both with the previous government and with itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317181106	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317181107	We are listening to both the trade union movement and others who are expressing themselves in this discussion. One of the first things that we managed to achieve jointly in the first financial law was to eliminate one of the challenges that was also in the benefit system and that indirectly contributed to erosion, namely the harmful residence requirement in relation to the daily allowance, and we are happy to continue the discussions. But again I would also just like to say that, as I say to Enhedslisten as well as to people in the trade union movement, I have great respect for the fact that you want great improvements and that you want to raise the level of compensation. At the same time, however, we also owe it to us to bring to the table how we can, as best we can, also give priority in the system to finding the money needed to increase the level of compensation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317181152	Thank you. Then there's a co-questioner. Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317181156	But Enhedslisten has made many suggestions on this, so I would like to hear about something. If the Minister agrees with the ambition that we should strengthen and improve the safety net, what could it be that the government might think a good way to do that and get the ends to meet in what is important to the government? In addition to the funding proposals we have already shown, one could also look at the calculator, which makes a dormant factor times five, which we have been able to see on several occasions simply is not connected. I'd like to grab a little hold of this, as the minister says, full focus on dealing with the corona crisis. But does the Minister not agree that these things are precisely connected? After all, the Corona crisis helps to highlight where it is so important that we, as a community, step in and intervene together, for example. When you lose your job. When social events are taking place, but also events in society, it is important that we have a strong safety net.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317181256	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317181257	I am very, very much in agreement with that, and the strong safety net has also really shown its value during this corona crisis. We are in fact a very, very strong place in Denmark, among others. Because we have such a large proportion of Danish employees who are insured against unemployment, which has made there that flexibility, also in a time of crisis. It is clear that I agree with, among other things. The Enhedslisten, but also others, in that we must also ensure that there remains a strong safety net in the future so that people continue to want to insure themselves against unemployment. Some of the places where in the corona crisis there are things that concern me and where I think it has been most difficult are where we have had to grant amnesty, whether it has been for self-employed or for uninsured employees. Too basically, I think that it is in the contract that we should know that crises can occur and that we are best assured if we join a cashier too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317181355	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317181356	But that's because if you're self-employed, you have to shut down your business, because you can't put it in hibernation. So it's a combination of several things that makes it make sense. But I just think that the Minister will agree that we have an enormously important basic safety net, but that it is also extremely vulnerable. If those who are the high-paid cannot see the meaning of being members and resigning, then it will be those who most often need the safety net to pay for it, and it will be more expensive, and then we risk that we do not actually have the benefit system in the future. Isn't the minister worried about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317181429	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317181430	I am fundamentally concerned about the issue outlined by Mrs Victoria Velasquez. What we can still see, fortunately, is that there is still virtually as much connection to the benefit system and the cashiers as there has been over the past many, many years. It is also true, on the other hand, that there has been a reduction in the regulation of the daily allowance, which is really coming through from this year and for a number of years to come, when it can be seen that the level of compensation is going to dive. That is something we would like to discuss, i.e. whether we should give priority to other ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317181506	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317181509	However, before it becomes a sleeping pillow that there is still a lot of support, I would like to ask whether the Minister is aware of the huge differences that are currently arising from the methods used in the benefit system and that they are growing, between the insured unemployed, depending on whether they are employed on functional terms and are typically monthly and with months' notice, or whether they are hourly and more casual. Because it's a very vulnerable part of our benefit system. It is also one of the things that comes out of thinking that, well, it is fine that you can take out wage insurance, but if you live near a fireworks factory, you cannot take out fire insurance as cheaply as if you live elsewhere. The same applies to the benefit system. If you're a loose employee, you can't take out a wage insurance policy. That is to say, the whole development we have seen creates precisely the great differences that make the completely uniform system of unemployment benefits, the solidarity system, where the same payment is made and where the same payment is made, regardless of age, regardless of age, is under weather. That's what's happening. Does the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317181623	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317181624	I very much agree that some developments are under way, including in the way we work and the way the labour market is changing, which of course also means that we have to adapt our benefit system accordingly. I think, for example. But all this is something we can discuss. What first of all has the government's focus right now is to get safely out of this all-embracing and harmful global pandemic, and then I think there's good reason to discuss these things on the other side.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317181713	Thank you. The question is closed. Then there's a new question. It's for the Minister of Home Affairs and Home Affairs, and it's by Mr. Knox. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317181723	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317181727	Thank you for that, President. The question is: is there, in the Minister's view, a good balance between the capital and the rest of Denmark when you look at the location and number of state jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317181739	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317181741	Thank you for the question and also thank you for having the opportunity to discuss how to ensure a Denmark that is connected. The short answer to the question is no. I do not think that there is a good distribution of government jobs in Denmark, and it is the government's clear position that Denmark has been centralised too much. It has left many cities without police, hospital, education and state jobs. We lack closeness in our common institutions, and we want a fight with that. Therefore, new state jobs must lie in the province. This applies to eight new tax centres, two already opened in Fredericia and Frederikssund, and soon there will be tax centres in Viborg and Esbjerg. The government's decision to place the new tax centres outside the capital will create 1,000 new jobs in the province. I look forward to it. Another example is the police. It is the government's view that the police have gone too far from the citizens and that the police should be where the Danes need it. That's why we've opened 20 local police stations. Tax centres and police stations are proof that we can change developments if we want, and the government will. The next step is education. Training is central, not least for local settlements and local jobs, and many Danish production companies are located outside the large cities and need access to qualified labour. It is essential for them to stay where they are instead of moving, perhaps even abroad. For the government, it is crucial that you can live throughout Denmark and access our common welfare offer. We have taken decisions that contribute to this and we will take more.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317181912	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317181914	Thank you for your answer. It is not so surprising that the Social Democrats talk a lot about doing something about it. And then the situation is: what has actually been done? There we hear a little different small numbers, not least in the light of how the previous Blue Government actually handled this. There is a recognition that there must be better balance in the country. Well, the figures also say very clearly why there is a need. There is an association called Balance Denmark, which has made various calculations of the figures, and they say that 48%. of all state jobs are located not only in the metropolitan area, but in the City of Copenhagen. And if you look at the three largest cities, it's 66 percent. of all the state jobs located in the three municipalities concerned. So the problem is real, not least in view of the fact that we really want development not just to take place in these places. That is also why the Blue Government introduced the most ambitious proximity reform in order to make sure that they arrive here approx. 8,000 government jobs to work, not only in the really large cities, but also in medium-sized cities. That is where I might be asking for some concrete action, because I could not come forward during the election campaign a year and a half ago for Social Democrats, who almost stood and overcame when I was around East Jutland to talk about that now we should have better balance and everything else: well, what the then government has done is not good enough, and now we will trump it, and I do not know what. There are numerous examples of this. And what can we say today? Then there are about 1,000 planned to get out and so on. It is not that, we must say great dream that now we want a real balance. I would ask, if you wish, whether the Minister would not agree that this would require more action than has been proposed so far by the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182104	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182105	Well, I just have to correct some of what is being said by the questioner, because I think the questioner has got the figures wrong. What Balance Denmark is dealing with is administrative jobs. The jobs of the state are about half of those in education and culture, about a quarter of those in administration, and a quarter of those in defence, police and criminal justice. So when you come up with these numbers, it's not really like that. 43% is located in the capital region. I think that is too many, but for example. After all, North Jutland has a similar number of state jobs in relation to their population share. I would say that we also took over a half-finished plan, and it has been a development and a work to ensure that we got to the end of it. According to the government's own estimates, approx. Three thousand jobs, and that in itself has been a task. In e.g. Holbæk, where I come from, had been planned in a way in the then government so that they have not yet moved out and where we can then look forward to them being this year. So I do not think that, when it comes to this, the feathers should be polished too much, regardless of the fact that I agree that the two plans that were made were very good, and I personally backed them up at that time too, because I thought it was the right way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182214	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182215	Well, let's just get some numbers in here and it's all state employees we're talking about. There are just under 60,000 state employees in 2019 in the Capital Region and 18.856 in the Region of North Jutland. And then it may well be that fewer people live in one place and another, but that is exactly the development we should also like to change a little. The situation is, of course, that if you want to stop the wave of centralisation, which has simply gone through a very, very long time, then it takes a lot of different reforms, a lot of different policies, and one of them, for example. the relocation of state jobs. That is why I say so clearly that this is where we need to see significantly more action than those of some 1,000 that the Minister has talked about, plus something in relation to the police. Because it pales in relation to what has been promised to the electorate during the election campaign, where it was almost thought that what the then Blue Government had done was petty.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182315	I am sorry to have to spend my reply time teaching the questioner about the percentage bill, but if in North Jutland there is approx. 18,000 government jobs, and this represents approx. 10% Of the state jobs, 10 per cent live in North Jutland. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. What I think should be the next step, precisely because half of the state jobs are in the education sector, is to look at how we make sure that we have an education system that is also present throughout the country, because that is where we really get our state jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182348	Thank you. Then there's a co-questioner. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182352	Thank you and thank you to the Minister for your reply. It's fine with the percentage bill and the nice words and stuff, but what the question was about was what the government did. The truth is, you haven't really done anything. Now the Minister has replied here that what has been done is that it has been ensured that what the previous government had decided was achieved. That is a good thing, but it is an expectation when something politically decided that there will then be officials who will put it into practice. It has always been planned that this relocation should take place by veins. What the question is is what the Socialist Government has done. How have the fine words been translated into political action in the field of education, in the relocation of state jobs, in proximity? After all, the Social Democrats made a big move, the Nærhedet rejoined, with a lot of fine words, and now it's almost two years later it's very difficult to act. That is why we are asking and I would like to ask again: what has the government done? What has been done by the Minister who has now been given the responsibility for this? And maybe it's a self-acknowledgment in the government that you've moved around the resort because you haven't really done anything. In that case, Minister, say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182457	It may be that I have been given the wrong paper, but the question that the questioner says was the question is not what it says here. What I have been asked is whether there is a good balance in the state jobs between the capital and the province, and I have clearly said there is not. I think that has been completely consistent both in the presentation that was made then and also in what else we have meant. And we still think so. Now I say that some things have not been completed in the time of the then government, and the questioner himself has a share of responsibility for this, but I would also say that there are some things that have succeeded, which I think we are very pleased about in the province and which we have achieved. It could, for example, be done. This is a compensatory reform on which the old government could not find a way of delivering, but which has then arrived, and in which very many provincial municipalities have, fortunately, received more money to provide well-being for the citizens. I am glad that the Left is also in that agreement. But it has to be said that this is also an example of the fact that there will be more public jobs in the province because it has been secured. But we are going to do so with good courage, and we are going to deliver, also on what is in the Newsletter back.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182556	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182558	Thank you. It is a bit funny that the minister accuses me of asking something else, and then the minister's answer to my question is what the government has done not what the government has said and promised, but what the government has done to the compensation reform. Fine, we can talk about that another day. The good result is about some of the demands that the party with which the government negotiated was brought in. The government played out with something completely different. However, we agree that this is a very good result, and we should not discuss that here. I would like to ask again: what has been done by the Minister and the government in relation to the relocation of state jobs, in addition to implementing what the previous government decided?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182636	It is true that some more money came to Gentofte, Lyngby-Taarbæk and Rudersdal after other parties came in, and that is the way it is when you make an agreement. We were asked what we had done, and I answered that in the first place. We have set up new tax centres, we have created new police stations that agreement was unfortunately not included in the agreement and we have, for example, also moved the works council and thus moved 70 employees to Ribe. So it is quite clear, and it has been made clear what we have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182707	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182710	But that is the creation of new jobs. It is the creation of new things. These are new police stations, they are new tax centres, etc. We are talking about what has actually been relocated. What has actually been relocated? And I think it is clear to everyone that the Minister would rather talk about all sorts of other reforms. Apparently, the Minister would like that, and fair enough with it. But I just think we should talk about what was the subject. I understand that, because the Minister is totally on the defensive, because the answer is that nothing has really happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182740	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182741	I understand if the questioner is groggy after messing around in percentages and jobs and what has been. We moved to Ribe, as I said just now, 70 employees from the Danish works council, we created new police station jobs, and we create new tax jobs. But for us this is not a conflict between Copenhagen and the province. After all, the proportion of jobs in the province increases when new government jobs are created in the province, that goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182807	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182808	Well, I don't know who it is that's become groggy, and now, apparently, we're in some boxing convention too. The questioner does not have the floor). I'll take my chances when I get the chance. We'll take the next question instead. Second Vice-President Yes, that is good).
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182825	The question is over. The next question is again to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182828	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182830	Thank you, President. The question is: does the government intend to relocate more education and government jobs etc. and thus complete the relocation of the 7,927 jobs decided by the previous government?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182840	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182842	Thank you. When the VLAK government left government offices, the relocation of state jobs had not been completed. The VLAK Government's own inventory of February 2019 shows that more than 3,000 of the planned jobs outside the metropolitan area had not yet been established. The government's first task is therefore to implement the relocations promised by the VLAK government. That's what we're working for. The relocation of state jobs will mean that there are more state jobs in the province than there would otherwise have been, and that is, of course, something that the government welcomes. It is the government's clear position that Denmark has been centralised too much. It is not the development that has closed the local police station or the local teacher seminar. It is also not the development that has killed local jobs. It was politicians who made bad decisions in the '00s. We can change that if we want, and the government will. Therefore, new state jobs must lie in the province. This applies to eight new tax centres, which I have mentioned, and 20 new police stations, and the next step is education. The government's objective has never been to have fewer jobs in the capital, but it is to reverse developments so that state jobs are maintained and established outside the metropolitan area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182950	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317182951	Thank you. Now the Minister said I was groggy, and that is absolutely right. I was in the Parliamentary Chamber yesterday to a little at 2 a.m. to discuss, but I still remember what the Minister said just a few minutes ago, namely that it was quite wrong when I said that it was only new jobs that we had talked about before. And then, after all, the Minister comes with the revelation in his answer here now to the second question and speaks for himself that it is about the government wanting new The whole essence of my side is of course to discuss the exodus of state jobs. Because that's where you can really make a difference. It is if you dare and want what you actually promised the electorate before the election campaign and in the election campaign, that you really want to relocate some state jobs. And then the revelation comes really now, and that is that you don't talk about that much, because it's kind of dangerous, and then you might come into conflict with someone and all sorts of other things. So you take what is easy, the jobs that are nowhere. That is why the question, even from the past, is still gone: what will the government really do to bring about what has been promised to the electorate: better balance in relation to training places and in relation to relocation, so not new jobs, Minister, but the relocation of jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317183102	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317183103	Yeah, that's right. We are going to relocate training places and, of course, we are going to relocate some of the employees who are in the educational establishments. Because, as I said in one of the first answers, half of the state jobs in the culture and education sector are primarily in the field of education and, of course, they must also be located in the province. And with great respect for better balance and better balance II, one must say that the part that was about training in the second game, I do not think I insult anyone by saying it was a little half-baked and that it has not been a great success since then. Of course, we will do better.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317183140	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317183141	In other words, I always think it is funny when a social democrat who has just spoken of having actually relocated 0 jobs says that the plan we had for the relocation of around 8 000 jobs should be petty, not least in the light of the fact that we clearly said that if we were to have power as we had been watching, we would also have started with a whole offensive in relation to the relocation of training places. That is why the question is: what are some training places that are actually being moved out? It is a good thing that we are now following it up; it is a good thing. And still away: has the government been completely lost in terms of the relocation of general government jobs, in other words, beyond education?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317183223	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317183224	Well, I can call on the rapporteur to cleanse his ears, because I actually praised the relocation of state jobs. What I am saying is that the education part of it was half-baked, and I think the rapporteur and the rest of the parties behind it are aware of that too. We're going to relocate state education and educational institutions in general, and I don't think anyone's gonna be disappointed about that. This is going to be an ambitious plan and when it comes, I promise to send a copy down to the questioner and to everyone else who should be interested in it, because I think that the questioner's party will agree with that ambition as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317183255	Then it's the co-questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317183304	Thank you, as well as thank you, to the Minister for her reply. I think we can narrow it down a little. I have to agree, it may not be so surprising with my good colleague Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, in relation to whether the government has an agenda to create new posts outside the capital. We welcome this, it is good that the government has a desire to relocate training places. Did the Minister say institutions? The Minister may repeat that. It is also fine, we just do not think it is very ambitious. Nor do we in the Left believe that this is quite what the Minister's party colleagues promised the electorate. I can say that in North Jutland, the Social Democrats in North Jutland went to elections to relocate the Danish Fisheries Authority to North Jutland. Some of the Minister's good colleagues, even in the government, I think you can find quotes from that. But we are told later that you will not. That is why the question is going on and I would like a clear answer from the government: do you want to relocate existing state jobs from the capital to the rest of the country, or have you packed that policy away?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317183419	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317183420	It is a bit backwards that I am saying that the half of the state jobs created by education, we would like to start establishing in the province that is new training courses and of course also move some of them from where they are today, which is primarily the capital area. It is half of the jobs that are there. It's unambitious. But, on the other hand, one shames oneself for touching a quarter of the jobs that are in the administration, i.e. office jobs. It doesn't add up. Of course, what is missing in this puzzle, which we agree on the ambition of, is to look at how we make sure that we get some education outside the big cities. This was not delivered in the time of the former bourgeois government, and we will deliver on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317183459	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317183500	Thank you. What is not connected is that the Minister will not answer the very simple question, and that is: is it the policy of the Social Democrats to transfer state jobs, that is existing state jobs, outside the education sector to the rest of the country, or is it not the policy of the Social Democrats? This is a rather simple question to which the Minister must be able to give a very clear answer. I can help the Minister and say that it was the policy of the Social Democrats when they met the electorate, but it does not sound right as if it is anymore, and then say so, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317183533	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317183534	Well, it's funny if you've been sitting around reading the paper we made, called "The Night Back," that you haven't fallen over the formulation of government jobs, that you have to create new ones. Of course, we are also moving state jobs to the province when it makes sense, and we have just moved 70 employees to Ribe. We can then stand and think that does not matter, but I think that Ribe is happy to have 70 state jobs; I think that means something to the local community. We're going to deliver on this now. I understand that the Left would like to know exactly what is in this proposal, but I also think there is an understanding that this would not have been done in its own reign on a Wednesday issue in the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317183606	Thank you. Then Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen the question off. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317183610	Thank you. In other words, the conclusion is that the relocations of state jobs, which so far can be boasted about in relation to the huge electoral promises made outside education, are 70 employees for Ribe. Fair enough. I just don't think that's quite what was thought to be choosing at least not in Østjylland, I can sign that the government would do if it came to it. And I have to admit, I think it's extremely unambitious. Because if we really want to do something, it is, of course, right, very positive that we have a better balance in relation to education and training, but we cannot escape the fact that there are a large number of government jobs that we also have to relocate, just as the previous Blue Government dared to do. We know that it was not popular everywhere, but it was necessary in order to achieve a better balance in the country. Unfortunately, however, the conclusion is clear, although the Minister has tried to talk about everything from boxing conferences to reforms in all kinds of other areas, etc.But unfortunately, the facts are there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317183716	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317183717	In the past, I had to help the rapporteur count, and now I am going to help the questioner read the proposal we have made and in which he claims we have promised large relocations of state jobs. Of course we haven't, because if we had it, the questioner would of course have taken that up and stood and read out of it verbatim. No, that is not the case, and the questioner knows it well. It is an act to make it look as if we are not taking it seriously, despite the fact that we have already done the greatest decentralization of the police since the Left centralised it; despite the fact that we have made a compensatory reform which is very much in the service of the province; despite the fact that we are now going to make a relocation also of educational institutions which the then government did not take seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317183756	Thank you. The question is closed. We move on to the Minister of Culture. The question has been asked by Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317183803	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317183849	Thank you, President. Bornholm has a special status as a test island for the opening of society, and the responsibilities of the Bornholmers have been lifted in the best way, does the Minister agree that the time is now ripe for cultural life to become part of the test island idea too, and when and how will the Minister in his area play cultural life in the Bornholm test opening?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317183912	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317183914	Thank you very much. It is absolutely correct, as the questioner points out, that Bornholm is one of the areas which, from 1 March 2021 fortunately, could be reopened, also in relation to parts of cultural life that were closed in other parts of the country. At national level, the agreement of 24 February 2021 added to the reopening of large parts of the retail trade per year. 1 March also agreed on a number of facilitations in the field of the Ministry of Culture. Throughout the country it was outdoor cultural institutions, for example. the zoological and outdoor museums, which were reopened with a requirement that the visits could prove that they had a negative coronate, which was not more than 72 hours old. At the same time, the assembly ban was lifted from 5 to 25 for outdoor sports and leisure activities under the auspices of the organisation, and then a decision was taken on extended regional relaxations for North and West Jutland and on Bornholm. In the field of culture, the Ministry of Culture acted among other things. On the subject of high school, which was reopened on 1 March at Bornholm as the only place in the country. Since then it has been decided on 9 March to open the long courses of the folk high schools throughout the country from Monday 15 March. The other measures and restrictions that are still in force are initially extended until 5 April, but right now, while we are standing here talking I was just about to say that our party leaders are just discussing how to get the long-term plan for re-opening across the country. So no decision has yet been taken on how the re-opening of society will take place after 5 April; this also applies to Bornholm. However, no later than 25 March, a comprehensive plan will be presented, hopefully with both the author's party and the rest of the parties of the Folketing, so that the population, as well as business and cultural life, have a clear sense of the order in which the different parts of the country open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317184109	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317184110	Thank you, Minister. There is no doubt that what we are discussing at the moment is extremely important and it is extremely important for a small island community that is dependent on tourism and so on. But I would like to join in giving the Minister and the Minister's party some good advice, because I find it difficult to explain why one must lump oneself together in the local Netto, which is not nearly as large as an art museum or a theatre that has to keep closed. Bornholm has offered himself as a test island. Is it not now the time for the Minister to draw up some models for how the rest of the country can open up their cultural life? And let's start by doing it on Bornholm under safe conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317184201	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317184202	I can see that the questioner and the author's party share the approach completely with the government and with myself. Because that's exactly what Bornholm was. The guidelines under which Bornholm's Højskole was opened also became those applicable to the rest of the country's high schools when they were opened here on 15 March. The experience gained in zoos throughout the country and also in hairdressers and other things on Bornholm will also give us some valuable experience in relation to the coronapas, in which very large parts of cultural life rely on can be the way we can stand and sing and experience things together again, and in so far as it is also in association, but in particular in the tourism sector, which the questioner also brings up, and I would just say that I fully agree with that. There's a really, really important player here, and that's why we need to get it back on track.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317184257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317184258	Yes, the minister says everything right: it is important, and Bornholm is a test island, and we have to test things and we have to go back and we have to have coronapas, etc. It's just nothing's gonna happen, Minister. The Corona Pass flies in the wind; no one will take responsibility for that unless it is within the EU and you ask some others etc. We have a unique opportunity to draw up guidelines that enable us to keep the volunteers, that we can get the sports and association life back on track and that we can get started. But the Minister and the Minister's party are on their hands; that is just not good enough, Minister. How to sustain the spirit of volunteers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317184336	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317184337	I am incredibly pleased that the questioner is asking. If the questioner has the impression that coronapas and other things are fluttering in the wind, then I can reassure him that it has actually been months since the Minister of Finance launched a cooperation between the public and private sectors to develop this coronapas. Last week it was announced that it will now be sent in a quick tender, because we have to follow the rules, also in relation to something as urgent as a coronapas. A follow-up group has been set up with representation from business and culture to ensure that once the supply is complete, you also have a version that can quickly fit into the way you order tickets or otherwise act in business and culture. Specifically, the questioner's party and the government have also given extra money to hold the Folkes meeting on Bornholm, which is also a huge motivator for a great many people on the fantastic island.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317184428	Thank you. There's a co-questioner, and that's Mr. Knox. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317184444	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Minister for the good answers. Danish Occupation says that corona hits two groups when we talk about who is most affected. Those who are doing very well at the moment are grocery stores, they are tech companies, and they are also construction companies. Some of those who have been hit very hard are the experience industry, it is culture and sport, and these are the centres. In 2015, you looked at what these things had to do with Bornholm. We're talking about a turnover of 2 billion. kr., and we're talking about approx. One thousand jobs at the time. And Bornholm is also seen as one of the five municipalities in the country, which has the most income from tourism. Does the Minister not recognise that the whole of Bornholm should have been reopened when the Minister hears these figures, and does the Minister not also acknowledge that by opening up completely to Bornholm we could save Bornholm even more than we are doing at the moment?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317184548	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317184549	I recognize that Bornholm really also took on being this test island. For we may have to remember that while we now know that in recent weeks and with the openings that have been, fortunately with the great diligence of the Danes, we have managed to keep the infection figures somewhat stabilized they are rising a little, but they are somewhat stabilized there, after all, when Bornholm was launched as a test island, including people who were nervous about it. So in reality, we just have to say a big thank you to Bornholm and to all the Danes that we can stand here and talk about whether we could have done it faster. I was just about to say clearly in the light of hindsight, but I think that the reason why we can stand and have this discussion at all is that we are constantly listening to the experts, and the experts have clearly said that the way in which we can constantly move towards more reopening is to do it gradually and gently so that we get the vaccines out and keep the British variation and other variations going until spring comes. So I am really delighted that we can have this discussion at all. What if we had stood like so many other countries in Europe and seen an increase in the number of infections, precisely because we have entered into the opening process? In Denmark we have done it carefully and that is why we can have this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317184706	Here you go, sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317184707	Thank you and thank the Minister for that fine answer. It is also the case that experts have recommended that you can open up to all non-gymnastics. They say that there is minimal risk of infection there. I would recommend to the Minister that she pushes very hard in the negotiations that are taking place at the moment to reopen, of course, everything that I am passionate about, culture, sport and the experience industry, and especially in relation to Bornholm, because we know that this means a great deal during the period we are now entering, in order that the experience industry, culture, sport and the centres in Bornholm can also survive in the long term. I hope the Minister will fight for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317184755	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317184756	Well, I hope so when we fight for that together. For this whole government's approach to the corona management, both when it's been about having to make these tough decisions about shutting down, but also when it's been about how we open in a proper way, it has been like with the help packages to seek the cooperation. We have our discussions in the Social Democratic Party, and I am sure that is also the case in the Left, and together we can have the good arguments given. But, of course, we also have to listen to the other parts of society, which are also hugely important, including for cultural life. Even with all the aid packages we have made, it is difficult with public funds to compensate for lack of audience and lack of, what can be said, connection to your volunteers, to those who usually make up the body and soul in cultural life.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317184850	Thank you. Then it's the last round for Mr. Knox. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317184859	Thank you for some fine answers, both to myself and also to my good colleague here. What I had hoped for, Minister, was that the minister had said: yes, Bornholm is perfect as test island; it is the perfect place, and I will immediately go back to my ministry and simply put my ministry in cooperation with museums and venues and DGI and DIF to look at how we can try to open up a little more. I had hoped that the Minister would look at what rules must be observed and what restrictions we have to impose on ourselves so that people in other parts of the country can get as far as Bornholm, and thus help to push things a little and at the same time keep their hands on the volunteers who carry large parts of the association life on Bornholm. We're a small island, we're not many, and that's why we're all wearing a lot of hats, and the volunteers are wearing a lot. We must keep our hand under that, Minister, and that is what I had hoped the Minister would answer me today. But what does the Minister think about my plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317185002	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317185003	Well then, I would really like to answer that I have only said, and I am only reassured here, that we really agree that Bornholm has this status as test island; it already has. I would then perhaps wish the author of the question that there will also be more confidence in his party leader in the Left. It is actually very good and very good that we now have a central, long-term reopening plan, something which I also noticed in parenthesis the author's party has been calling for for a very long time. Now we get it. We'll even have the opportunity to do it together. Our party leaders are doing this on our behalf, but I certainly have full confidence that my party leader can easily balance the different parts of society, just as I am sure the questioner also has to his. So I look forward to seeing the plan here on March 23rd. I welcome the good developments on Bornholm, but for that matter also throughout the country. When we learn from each other, what we also learn is how we can take responsibility and move on and out of this terrible crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317185105	Thank you. The question is closed. There's a new question for the Minister of Culture, and it's from mr. Stén Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317185111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317185119	Thank you for that, President. What is the Minister's position on the early reinstatement of the Superliga scheme in football stadiums and elsewhere in cultural life?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317185133	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317185134	Thank you very much for the question. I think we have been here before and I would like to congratulate the author on his persistence. It is a perseverance that I fully share. It is almost in the job description as Minister of Culture, but I have also, in particular, been really impressed by the enthusiasm shown by the football world in this time of crisis to get us all through well, both when it comes to getting people back in the audiences, but also when it comes to just keeping in touch with the whole society and all those who want to keep in touch. So I am also very much looking forward to making it possible to re-establish the superliga system. In fact, we managed to get it introduced for the rest of sport too and were negotiating the scheme for cultural life last autumn. As soon as there are these calculations on the whole of the social activity that is still being shut down right now, that is what our party leaders have to negotiate on the basis of. I have asked in the Ministry of Health here today how these calculations are carried out, and the Ministry has indicated that these are scenarios where partial reliefs are envisaged with a certain amount of restrictions, for example. testing to allow maximum opening in each sector within what is safe for health. Some of the relaxations may not be possible to count on in concrete terms, but qualitative assessments by health authorities are being initiated here. As soon as the government has the calculations and assessments, we will of course present them to all parties of the Folketing. The superliga scheme and, in fact, the whole sporting arrangement scheme from September last year have been well described and tried out so that they can form the basis for the organisation of sporting and cultural events as soon as our political leaders have drawn up the long-term plan for the reopening of Denmark, where I am sure this will also be included. Those will be the words from me today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317185344	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317185346	Thank you, President-in-Office, and thank you to the Minister for your reply. I hope that the calculations also give us some calculations on geographical differences, so that we also look at it a little more flexibly. That is what lies in the superliga system, namely that we have a different framework and that they can be filled in different ways. Thank you to the Minister for signing up for the work that the Left is doing in relation to the introduction of the superliga system. We are very pleased with the summer's games, which last year showed that sport can actually do this. Now we are not just talking about football, we are also talking about cultural life. Experts have previously assessed that the risk of reopening non-athletic sports is minimal. I also understand perfectly well, and that is what we have heard throughout the day today, that it is not here that we are negotiating with regard to reopening it. But some of the things we have been negotiating have been these restart teams, where we have looked at this SAVE scheme, which the minister has also been involved in discussing, and where, as parties, we have also tried to make a scientific attempt, which, through passports and tests, the diversity of the stadium and the whole apparatus around a stadium, should show that we not only look back, but also forward, if it is that we have to shut Denmark down again in various areas. The question to the Minister here is: is this work that the Minister can set in motion, or should the Minister also ask whether it can be initiated here? Because we actually have a model to go to. After all, on 26 February we were sent it, and we are almost a month later rather incomprehensible and have not begun the important work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317185556	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317185557	In relation to the scientific project SAVE, which is really about an extension of the superliga system with tests in order to get more people into the stadium as well, it is actually about having to pick up up up to 30,000 people sitting and standing with very, very close distance, if you can call it that, and that is so many people at a time when the rest of society is shut down very much. What has been assessed is that it is also part of the negotiations that our party leaders are holding right now, when they will have to take a position on some of the points that the questioner also raised, namely what the conditions should be in those communities where the fighting might take place. Overall, on behalf of the government, I would like to say that we have sent the project to the health authorities, and they can also see that this would make us wiser. But it is, of course, a political decision when we will ask 30,000 people to be what can you say test persons in such an experiment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317185704	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317185705	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister, who is not allowed to reply, and I understand that very well, because the time is running. In fact, the Minister did not answer the question I asked: is it the Minister's responsibility to be able to set this project in motion or is the decision somewhere else? Because we have had it since 26 February, and only 14 days later were we called for some conversations about it. Now we have come so far that those who have worked on this SAVE have actually created a model 2, which I would also like to ask the Minister. When can we get it started so we can get spectators back to the stadium?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317185737	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317185738	Now I can say the sentence I just lacked: precisely because it's about having to let so many people into some battles and asking them to be test people at a time when the rest of society is shut down so much • I've explained that in my previous answer • it's something that needs to be assessed in these reopening negotiations that are currently taking place between our party leaders.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317185801	Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson as an enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317185813	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the answers. I assume that we agree that our clubs are in a very, very difficult and desperate situation. At the same time, we have some experience from the autumn that shows that the clubs could handle this almost without any infected people being able to be traced back to a superliga stadium. In this light, when does the Minister himself expect the super league clubs or clubs to be able to get spectators back to the stadium in general?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317185846	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317185847	But I think that, like the questioner and everyone else here in the Danish Parliament, I am following these daily rates of infection and hospitalization with great attention, because they are the ones who decide how optimistic we can afford to be. And I do not want to hide the fact that I think that we went far as a government and, unfortunately, by a majority, we did not last the questioner's party, but I hope we can do this together now because the figures show that even if we went as far as the health authorities at all estimated we could go last, we will stick to the Danes' discipline on the low infection curve. I do not dare to set a precise date; that would also be to anticipate the negotiations that our party leaders are conducting. But I am quite confident that both the author's party and my own are aware of the importance of football for us as a nation and for many communities. What I have been able to do, and what I have been able to do on behalf of the government, has, of course, been to create the organisation scheme that has been published here on Monday, which extends the criteria that exactly the professional sports clubs can be compensated for, because we know they are in a particularly tough situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317185959	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317190000	Thank you for that answer. Now the Minister is very much referring to these negotiations with the various party leaders. It is not necessarily every corner they come around in such a debate, so I would like to know whether the Minister has recommended to his President that this arrangement should be included in the negotiations here in the first place.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317190029	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317190030	Just as when negotiations are normally under way, part of a party or a government does not stand and so tells how you stand in those negotiations. However, what is important to the government in relation to cultural life is in fact the same as in relation to business and education and all the other parts of our society that we are missing right now, that is, our social life, namely that we get it started properly, so that we constantly move towards more reopening. The very best thing would be for the sports clubs too that the Danes also kept their work so that they continue to have money to come and invest in their local clubs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317190113	Thank you. Then it's mr. Stén Knuth for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317190126	Thank you for that, President. I would just like to return to this SAVE, that is to say to something that looks like a scientific project that we can learn from for the future. It's not just about football. It is very much about football, but it is also about cultural life, and it is about the big music events. I don't believe that corona just disappears. I think the minister recognizes that, and the government does that too, but that it will show up from time to time. Our concern is just that time passes and that we could have learned much more if we had got started earlier, because then the pressure of infection was also in a different way, so you could see how it would develop if you were doing these things. Instead, we enter a period when the pressure of infection is low and we go towards summer, when the pressure of infection is even lower and what can we learn from it? So the minister will have to push to get this project started.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317190222	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317190229	As much as I am, of course, obliged to bring out the various issues not only of cultural, sporting and association life, but also of ideas, the questioner is also within his party, because this is something we need to share. At least I hope we can be. I hope that is what our party leader's speech will result in, namely a common long-term plan for the reopening of Denmark. I would just like to say that I do not really hope that we will need SAVE again next autumn either. I hope that with vaccines and coronapas we can now hold this infection rod; but of course it requires that we continue to cooperate on it, and I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317190307	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Stén Knuth. The question has been answered. But we will continue with the Minister of Culture, and this time it is Mr. Kim Valentin, who has to ask questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317190322	Please read it out loud. That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. S 1122.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317190325	Yeah, that's because I didn't get the number. I hope that it is the right thing for me to start with: what does the Minister think of 12%? of the Danish musicians considering leaving the industry as a consequence of the corona restrictions, and does the Minister believe that the safety net of the aid packages has been wide enough when so many are considering leaving the music industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317190402	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317190403	Thank you very much for the question. I have, of course, examined these figures, which have also been reported in various media. I would like to point out that the figures to which the questioner refers, as I have been told, have been collected between 21 September and 12 October last year. It was in fact at a time just before we jointly, a broad majority of Parliament's parties and the government, that the temporary art aid scheme was adjusted so that artists were able to apply for the temporary art aid scheme on the basis of a reference period with effect from 1 September. That option has as much as 80%. by the applicants from mid-December until mid-February chosen to avail themselves of. More applicants have simply arrived, and I am very pleased about that, because it shows that, although it was technical and difficult and all sorts of things, we managed to listen to what the industry was sending out and to adapt the aid packages so that more people can now get help from there. I am quite convinced that this change in the scheme has therefore had a positive effect on the proportion of Danish musicians and composers who may have just thought of leaving the industry as a consequence of the Corona restrictions, but now have had the help they could not get when the question was asked, and therefore hopefully also look more positive to the future. Of course, I look at any such investigation with enormous seriousness. It would be a tragedy, it would be deeply unhappy and a huge loss for a lot of people, including those who should have seen these musicians and composers if they suddenly left the music industry. So I am also incredibly pleased that on Monday, including with the author's party, the government and a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, we have made this organizer scheme, which is to hold hands with all those who can plan music events and other events during the summer, because they were just afraid of entering into contracts. Now the musicians, but in reality also all the practical good people who usually help make summer events happen, hopefully get orders in the order books again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317190618	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317190619	Thank you, Minister. It is true that on Monday we concluded an agreement on a new organisation arrangement with a stair model. But it's not really the one I'm going to dive in the first place. One might argue that when the Minister has found these figures, perhaps the Minister could have examined it a little better before, one could say whether there is this development in the industry. For music, song and culture in general is a very, very important part of Danish society, and especially we have seen here during the corona crisis that the song has been amazing and has lifted us up. It's connected to the music industry in general. There you may have to look a little further every now and then, because this isn't just about the fact that we've been through a crisis, and now it's also the case that we're actually going to open up, and maybe we have to open up for the last time. But when we get out there where we have opened, we are left with a music industry that has been completely starved for a very, very long time. That is why we need a recovery. We need a recovery of the music industry. That is what I would like to hear the Minister say a little bit about. What is the Minister's view of this recovery?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317190748	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317190749	I understand the impatience, and I kind of share that too, but I think there are several things we should take along when we talk about the time after corona. Firstly, I think it is important that, as in any crisis, we keep looking at what is most urgent. It's been a lot of hassle to get this organizer scheme through. It must not be underestimated. That's 1⁄2 billion. kr. to hold hands during incredibly many events. A lot of musicians saw last summer that orders simply disappeared from order books, and it was perhaps there during the summer period that they used to make a lot of their money. So in this way, but also in the negotiations we are going to continue on Friday about the aid packages, we are constantly looking at how we can ensure that everyone gets through well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317190836	Thank you. Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317190837	Thank you. Yes, the latter, I am glad, because I do not believe that the organizational arrangement as such solves all the problems. In fact, there are some built-in problems in the organizer scheme, but that is another matter. We'll have to talk about that another day. But the very last thing is that we also need to talk about the activity pool. The activity pool is really something that helps that part. And there the Minister has said and said in the press that the activity pool must be used during the reopening, and then it is over while there are restrictions. But not during a recovery.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317190916	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317190917	The company that is negotiating right now and we are still negotiating on Friday is an auxiliary package agreement group. That is why everything called recovery, rebooting, or whatever you can say, will require us to regroup all the parties of the Folketing in order to allow other parties to join that circle as well. I really hope that the negotiations among the party leaders on such health restrictions will provide a very good basis for this, because there are many other things that will also affect the restart well, for example. payment of these holiday money. These are also some that I am sure many Danes are looking forward to using in cultural life again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317190956	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317190957	In fact, I hear a little positive story here, and that is that the Minister is also thinking about recovery and perhaps a pool of activities during recovery. We have to do something special here. It is actually a big business for Denmark, there is a lot of money that is being made, and there is a lot in the trade balance in reality too. Does the Minister think of that as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317191031	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317191032	The Minister certainly does. I'm one of them. That is why, earlier today, we had this debate on the copyright directives. I know that there has been a great deal of focus on the media in this regard. But this government's focus on the status of right-holders in this very technologically fast development time that we are in is also a way of holding hands under the Danish music industry and ensuring that the Danish music industry continues to be as strong as it is, both in growth and for the pleasure of many.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317191108	Thank you. The question has been answered. But we go on with the same couple, and it's the Minister for Culture, and then Kim Valentin asks questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317191117	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317191119	Thank you. What does the Minister think about the rebooting team's recommendation to implement the Superliga scheme widely in the cultural and sports life in the reopening of culture?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317191132	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317191133	Thank you very much for the question. I think that is both very good and very relevant, and then I could sort of stop there. However, because we are all waiting in this time for our party leaders to come together, hopefully in a broad consensus about a long-term plan for reopening, it is also the one to which I have to refer here under this question. After all, we have had the opportunity to discuss the recommendations of the restart team, and I actually sense that the questioner and the author's party and the government agree that these are some recommendations we would like to follow. This will also mean that we will support financially, for example. This SAFE project, which is of course an extended version of the Superliga scheme, but when we can let it enter into force, depends on the calculations that the health authorities have to make and the negotiations that our party leaders have. I have asked up to the questions here today about the calculations, and the Ministry of Health has informed me that as far as possible scenarios are being calculated, looking at partial relaxations with a layer of restrictions, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been drawn up by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and for the excellent work done by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Some of the reliefs may not be calculated in concrete terms, but in that case a qualitative assessment by the health authorities will be initiated and, as soon as we have these calculations and assessments, we will of course share them with the parties of the Danish Parliament in the hope that we can find a broad consensus on a long-term reopening plan, including the Superliga scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317191310	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317191311	Thank you for that, Minister, and I've heard that before, so now I'm gonna have to dig a little further down. I had the pleasure of inviting the Minister to a super league game in the autumn. Unfortunately, the Minister did not accept that, and I am sorry, because if the Minister had been there, the Minister would have seen how it worked. Well, we're famous in Denmark for this, these are protocols that are used in the rest of Europe. It's just, from getting in, until you get put down, until you go to the bathroom, until you go over and buy your popcorn, that everything's registered. Why do I say that? Yes, because we get knowledge every time we have these projects, and I hear the Minister say it a little under a previous question. But what is absolutely crucial is that sport and culture here are our fellow players, and the longer we keep closed, the less we know the next time a pandemic comes along the less we know. Therefore, it is of course important that we use SAFE and the Superliga Scheme to retrieve information. Does the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317191425	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317191425-2	Both I and the health authorities, I can also quote now, agree that SAFE is a very well-described scientific project or experiment that the health authorities have considered it appropriate to carry out. But it is then a political decision when we will ask the 30,000 people that it requires to join a fight, buy tickets and stand closely together well enough with tests, but indeed also with the risk that they may be infected and that is what our party leaders are negotiating right now, i.e. when it will be timely and justifiable to launch along with all the other things in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317191509	Thank you. Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317191510	Too little to use a football metaphor, this is like the minister playing ball with the super league clubs, and why? By saying that try to hear that we lack tests in society, and you can gather 30,000 people in 2 hours, you can organize it so that people are not infected, you can organize it so that you actually take tests of the population that you have never seen before you have difficulty collecting 30,000 tests so quickly they could help to help the minister everywhere in Denmark to get solid figures to move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317191549	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317191550	I'm thinking it was a statement, but I just have to say that no one can secure such conditions that guarantee against infection. Every time we meet in this time, there is a risk of infection, and that is also why it has to be included in these negotiations on reopening, if you take them as such financial negotiations, that there are a certain number of points that are about the risk and where we can hopefully agree on how we distribute it, so that it is justifiable, but that we also get started on the cultural life, the educational life, the business life, the social that we miss.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317191631	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kim Valentin for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317191633	But I don't think the Minister is answering this. Because it is still the case that the minister looks at the super league clubs as opponents, like that: No, I have to rest, and I have to do a lot of things. Take them into the room, and tell them that they can help solve some of the problems we have and bring the knowledge to the next time we have a pandemic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317191658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317191658-2	I would also like to say here, just as I have done every time we have met both with the DBU and with the Divisions Association, that I have praised them for both developing the Superliga model in the last shutdown and now developing this SAFE project. We have a very good cooperation both around the super league and around the broad football, but in reality also the European Championship, which also comes before we know it, and where hopefully we also have to find a good solution. For football is something special and the football clubs can do a lot. That is why we, as politicians, must also take our role upon us, who are the ones who must take responsibility for the whole of society, but, of course, in conjunction with the football clubs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317191741	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you, sir. Kim Valentin and the Minister of Culture. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317191749	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317191819	Thank you for that, President. May I not start by saying that I am unspeakably pleased that exactly that staffing is in place when we are discussing su and defense, because I know that this is something that is very much for the President and for a great many others in this Chamber. So thank you both for the commitment from there, for the commitment from the DF and from other rapporteurs who have been pressing over the last period for us to find a solution to this important issue. I hope that this is something we can solve together. The proponents want the government to ensure during this parliamentary year that young people in post-protection care who go on a course of training which is eligible will also be entitled to receive su unless the young person receives other public aid intended to cover the cost of living. This is an objective shared by the government. Young people in detention care should of course have the opportunity to apply for treatment on equal terms with other young people, otherwise it sends out both the wrong signal that they are different from the others in their study, and it can also reduce the motivation to complete an education and thus ultimately retain the young people in the municipal system. None of this is what we want. That is why I have said some time ago that the government is willing to look at this and we have actually examined the possibilities for a solution. Today, young people in protective custody at a place of placement who are undergoing training are not entitled to su su, since the post-protection service is considered to be another public provision covering the daily life of the young person. In order for young people to be able to apply on equal terms with other young people, the municipality must decide on their own payments to the young person in accordance with the social rules, nor must the young person receive other benefits to cover the cost of living. There must therefore be clarification of guidance in the social and social fields in order to provide a clear framework. This applies, among other things, to: the framework for self-payment in the social services manuals. So a solution is in place, but it will mean additional costs for su because a new group of young people will be eligible, and therefore it is obvious to look at funding in our community before the solution can be implemented. In the past, we have given our hands on this, and I think that should still apply. In the autumn of 2020, in other words a few months ago, I informed the conciliation board of the solution concept that I have just described, including that it will require some funding that we need to clarify together. The assessment is that this will cost in the region of 22 million. kr. In addition, we have also been aware that there will be a derived effect on the Fgu school provision, because the rules here comply with the su rules, and this means that there will be an additional annual extra cost of around 17.7 million. kr., which also requires funding, i.e. a total of about 40 million. kr. annual. That money must, of course, be found before we can take the decision Today's debate is therefore also a good opportunity for me to reiterate that the government fully supports the intentions of the proposal and, of course, it has to be put in place here. But since there is no funding in the proposal, the government cannot support what lies there, but on the other hand I hope that we can do what we have always agreed with each other, namely to get it here in the circle of agreements or in the circle of conciliation, where we can then find the money together. I hope, of course, that the proposers will agree with this. Once again, thank you for your commitment to what I think is a very important matter. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317192301	Thank you. And there are some brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317192303	Thank you. And thank you also for the praise to our social rapporteur, who has taken this matter up for many years now. What I would like to ask the Minister is that in the past we received a reply from the Minister that this is a decision to be taken in the conciliation circle and that all the parties in the conciliation group should agree. Is it still the Minister's view that this is something that has been settled?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317192336	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317192337	I think it is natural to take this discussion in the Committee on Budgets, because it is a new group which must have access to the Su munity, even if the solution does not change the basic conditions in order to be able to obtain su. So I am delighted that it seems that there is such broad support for putting this in place in the su-conciliation circle, where we also have the opportunity to find the funding together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317192409	There is no follow-up question from Mrs Astrid Carøe. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317192416	Thank you. And thank you for the Minister's speech. I am, of course, pleased to hear that the Minister is prepared for us to resolve this. What I just have to ask is that, when the solution has been there since the autumn and the challenge has been there for some years now, why have we not solved it until now? Well, why is it only now, when we push and get this into the Chamber, that the minister says: So, now we have to get to work on it? Why hasn't the Minister called for talks in the circle before today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317192447	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317192449	I won't be able to answer why it hasn't happened before my time. I can see, when I read back in the papers, that this is something that has been paying attention to and discussing for a long time now. I can only say that the discussion we have had here in the circle with me as Minister has been one hundred per cent sincere. And that is why, in the autumn, we have also sent in both in writing and with an oral briefing what a possible runway could be, of course in cooperation with the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior at that time. There's a very sincere will to negotiate this. There are also a lot of things to deal with for everyone who is in politics right now, and perhaps it has played in that things can take a little longer. But there is absolutely no reluctance on my part; on the contrary, there is a solution for the very same reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317192550	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317192551	Now it can be said that this is not the only thing we are waiting for the Minister to get his hands on, so we can move on ■ it is very much a matter of a lot, but this is a relatively simple solution. The solution has come, and it has been months since we have been informed. Then it can also, when the government came up with an initiative called the Children First, where this group is also involved, and where you also talk about this group having extra time for example. I'm surprised that the government doesn't bring this solution along and gets it into such a game about this particular group. Why is it that you've been doing this just a month ago, knowing the solution, and you've known about the problem for years?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317192628	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317192630	However, it is my clear view that we are engaged in a dialogue in which the government has tried to find a solution and in which we have jointly promised each other to try to find funding for the now about 40 million. kr. I also note that, in this context, the rapporteur has not found the funding either. So, of course, this is a task we have promised each other together, and I still intend to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317192653	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317192700	Thank you. What just led me to ask a question was that the Minister said that we are it is a little unknown to me. I have now been rapporteur in this area at the time when the Minister was a minister and, in addition to the fact that the Minister briefed on the defence of a conciliation meeting, I do not recall that there has been a dialogue as such between the conciliation parties to find a solution. That is precisely why the proposal has been put forward in the Folketing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317192737	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317192738	What the proposal really confirms today is what we have already said to each other that we will. The solution has also been found across ministries. Despite the corona handling, etc. In fact, we have given priority to putting a solution to the dispute. What remains is the funding. It continues to do so after we have been in the Chamber today, and I think we have a good opportunity here to reaffirm to each other that we still have an intention to find common ground.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317192807	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317192808	I personally am of the opinion that it is the Minister who is in the driver's seat, and that is why I believe that it is also the Minister who should play out a proposal on how to provide funding so that we can get to the finish line. Otherwise, it's like dancing around the hot porridge, and then you can continue this discussion indefinitely without reaching the goal, and I think that's too bad. It is a pity for the young people that this is about, and that is why I just want to know if the Minister has not considered how we are going to achieve this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317192839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317192840	I can fully confirm that, of course, I see a special responsibility on the Minister's table. That is why, of course, we are also considering this, and I would like to reaffirm here today both to the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals, but also to everyone else in this House who has been pressing for this for a long time and we have had a dialogue in which we have expressed a common concern for these young people that we are going to discuss it. And I would very much like to discuss that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317192910	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317192913	The Minister mentioned that there were some costs involved in setting up this scheme for young people in detention. However, as I understand from the Minister's speech, there is also the fact that there are some changes in the guidance that should be about their own payment. That means, as I have just heard, that a saving must then be embedded in it, but it will then be at local level. Has the Minister assessed or calculated what amount we are talking about compared to the 40 million? kr. So how much money are we actually demanding as a self-payment from the young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193003	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193004	It is true that when a young person has an income, there will be a municipal assessment of his own payment, but as to how he should actually unfold and the whole question of self-payment, I must refer to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193023	Sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193024	Then I'll comment on something else, because I'm actually as puzzled as others in here might be. Now it is the case that, unfortunately, the Enhedslisten is not in the conciliation we are talking about here, namely the su-conciliation, but I am nevertheless surprised that it seems that the whole circle of rapporteurs and the minister in this matter, which has been on the table for many, many years, is sitting on their hands. So this is what it looks like outside the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193056	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193057	I would like to confirm once again that this has been under discussion for many years. I shall not be able to conclude why no solution has been found which has been formulated in writing and presented to the Su-congregation earlier in the process. This has happened within the few months since October. The proposal that has been put on the table is meant to be a genuine proposal, and there are, by the way, a number of other things in our country that need to be dealt with right now. However, it is certainly not a sign that we are sitting on our hands on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193132	Thank you. A few brief comments have still been made. Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193135	Thank you. I was motivated to ask the Minister a few questions. Last May we talked about doing something extra for young people with disabilities and having to set up another working group. That did not happen. The Minister now hears that we have been in dialogue about this, including in the Su circle. I have not really heard that, nor have I seen it in the annual wheel, which has also been pushed. Now I would just like to ask the Minister quite specifically: can we expect to be able to discuss this before the summer so that young people who are on the lookout for training can also expect to have su and be equal to others? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193213	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193214	Yeah, I really want us to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193220	Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193221	[Sound emission]... that we'll meet about this before summer and find a solution so they can expect to start with su in autumn?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193228	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193229	Well, I would like to confirm once again that it is a very sincere wish of the government that we resolve this matter. That is also why, despite years of debate ahead of it, a concrete, tangible solution has finally been drawn up which has been written down and which has been put on the table for the conciliation circle. I sincerely hope we will agree on that. I would also like to say here and now that we are in a global pandemic where it is a little bit difficult to predict whether there are suddenly other things that clear everything, and therefore this time is also special. But the intention is so clear and the desire is so clear, and I really hope we shall.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193308	Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193311	There is a lot to be done right now, I think we all acknowledge that. But now that we have something here where a solution has actually been put on the table and, as I understand it, this is also a very broad agreement that we would like to solve and find the money for in the conciliation circle, my question to the Minister is actually a follow-up to what has been asked, namely: can the conciliation circle expect a meeting to be convened on this before the summer recess?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193342	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193342-2	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193348	Thank you. Then there are no further brief comments to the Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. The first rapporteur to be on the platform is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193415	Thank you for the floor. Thank you, too, to the authors of the motion for a resolution and to other good forces in this Chamber for raising an important issue. As is the case today, young people in detention at a location do not have the same opportunities as other young people to apply for asylum when they are in training. This is due to the fact that the post-protection system is regarded as a different public support system, and the rules provide that you cannot have su as long as you receive other public services. The Social Democratic Party believes that young people in detention must have the same conditions as everyone else in order to apply for asylum. If young people are to be able to apply for su, the municipality must decide on their own payment according to the social rules and no other public support must be received next door. In the autumn of last year, the Minister informed the Committee of the solution whereby the clarification of these guidelines in the social and social fields can help to provide a clear framework, among other things. for the rules on self-payment. We support this approach. However, the present motion for a resolution does not indicate any financing of the measure. It is expected that this proposal will entail an additional annual cost of around 22 million. kr., just as there will be a derived effect on the fgu school service, which will entail an additional annual additional cost of 17.7 million. kr. We must, of course, have that funding in place. But, of course, young people in detention must have the same opportunities to apply for su as all sorts of other young people. Social democracy therefore supports the good intentions and we support a solution that clarifies the guidelines in this area, but the Social Democrats cannot support the resolution as it stands because funding has yet to be allocated. That is why I very much hope that we will be able to follow the Minister's call to find a good solution in future committee work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193609	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193611	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's commitment that this is something we need to resolve. It is good to hear that the Socialists are concerned that this will be resolved. And then we are talking about funding, where there will be a lot of savings; that is, many of them here today will be on an educational service or something else that they should not have if they get su. So it must, after all, be an amount going the other way. Then I am surprised when the Social Democrats are so concerned about this and you make a play here in January called the children first, who have an annual budget of 750 million. kr., about that it doesn't follow. In relation to the group of young people we are talking about and who are involved in this, so that they can have better opportunities to take up youth education, why is it that we do not say: here we have the funding, and now we are taking it into account in this proposal, and then we will get it solved?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193702	For good reasons, I cannot say why no solution has been found in this area before I think the questioner should almost put a question to the rapporteur of the previous government party. I can just say that I think that we are doing it quite correctly, namely saying to those who are involved: we need to find a solution and we need to find an agreement for funding. And that's what we do. In other words, you only hear the Social Democrat rapporteur support the proposal, which I also think Mr Beyer de Ryke is in favour of. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl is to be commended for having tabled. I think this is a good proposal and now we must help each other to find funding for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193736	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193738	Well, of course there has to be funding. I am surprised that the Minister does not take on that task and says that she must then come up with a proposal on how to find the funding. And I can also wonder when the Socialists are putting forward a proposal where they spend 750 million. kr. in the same group, that it has not been included, so that we can sort this out within the framework that has actually been set aside for this programme, which will have to be negotiated in a few moments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193804	I am very pleased that the questioner has also had time to read the social democracy proposal, which will make a really big difference to some of our vulnerable children in Denmark, and we are, of course, very happy about that. I also noted, as I was listening to the Minister's speech before, the many good questions that I think the other rapporteurs in this Chamber asked that the Minister will call some discussions on this very soon, and I think that is where we should talk, and I wonder if we will have a talk about funding at that time too. That's what I'm thinking.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193831	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Socialist rapporteur, so we move on to the Left rapporteur, Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317193852	Thank you very much. Let me begin by thanking the authors of the Danish People's Party. I think it is quite appropriate that we should now revisit a well-known issue which has been discussed in the Danish Parliament earlier I think that the last time was back in 2018, when Tommy Ahlers, Minister for Education and Research, undertook to do an analysis and find a proposal on how we could accommodate this group of young people in the su system. And I understand this proposal now lies on the table of the current minister; it is just waiting for what can be said that the button is being pressed and that it becomes a reality, and in that light I think we should see the motion for a resolution here. With this I would like to say that we fully support the intentions of the proposal. We did that back in 2018. We are fully in line with the Social Democrat rapporteur, as I also hear the Social Democrat rapporteur, saying that, of course, young people should have the opportunity to receive su on an equal footing with all other young people if they go on an education. It is a question of dignity for us, and it is a question of dignity for individual young people who are in detention and who have had some difficult years of child and youth, that, when they start their education, they will of course have the opportunity to be equated with all other young people. I would like to conclude by asking the Minister to find out this proposal from the drawers and to invite the parties of the Folketing, perhaps not all the parties of the Folketing, but at least the Su-conciliation Group, so that we can find a solution which will make this a reality. I do not think we can be aware of this relatively small group of young people, that we are dancing around the hot porridge, and that no decision is being taken which means that they will have proper and equal conditions when it comes to the possibility of receiving su. The Left supports the intentions of the proposal, but, as we naturally also respect the fact that this is something that needs to be resolved within the board, will request if the Minister does not take the lead that we then in committee produce a report in which we instruct the Minister to act. But I could hope that the Minister will take action before we get there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317194150	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mrs Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317194154	Thank you for that, and thank you very much to the rapporteur for backing us in that, of course, we must now have the SU for young people in detention. The only thing that can upset me a little is that this is a case we have been raising for many years now, and it has been a very important matter for the SF, also during the last parliamentary term. I know that the rapporteur himself has been a minister in this area, and I would therefore like to hear what the rapporteur thinks may be why nothing has happened before. Why is that not something the rapporteur himself put forward when he was a minister in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317194225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317194226	I simply do not recall that this was a matter that was discussed during the period I was responsible in the Ministry of Education and Research. What I have been able to dig up is that not my direct successor, but the successor of my successor, Mr. Tommy Ahlers was involved and engaged in the case in order to find a solution. And an inter-ministerial committee was set up to analyse the problem in order to come up with proposals for a solution. And that proposal lies, and I also understand that that is what the Minister is leaning on. Now it is a matter of getting it implemented, quite simply.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317194310	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317194311	I fully agree with that. We must have done that now, and I wish it had been yesterday and not tomorrow. But now something's happening. And it can also be confusing when it is in two ministries. So very good that we've done this inter-ministerial work and now there's something. And I'd like to sign for the Left to back this up as well now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317194331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317194331-2	I thank you for your recognition, and I think there was a praise if I listened very carefully to the Left from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317194342	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317194345	I am then one of those who is not in the conciliation circle, but I would like to hear: when it is the case that a member of the conciliation circle first has to enter the conciliation circle and find 40 million. kr. In a system which, as I think the rapporteur knows, is often a zero-sum game, the rapporteur then has some idea of it, in relation to where the 40 million will be taken. kr. within the zero-sum game called SU?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317194423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317194423-2	Oh, my God! I'm really, really glad that Enhedslisten isn't in the S.U. conciliation group and thank you for that. Well, I actually think the proposer, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, points to an excellent proposal for funding. The government has put forward a proposal for the child's reform. I do not remember the title of the proposal itself right here, but at least 750 million have been earmarked. kr. to a reform of the entire children's area, which will include children at risk, including children placed in care. And this is precisely about young people who have been placed while they were children. And I think it would be quite appropriate for it to be included in the funding that the government has pointed out here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317194517	Sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317194519	Can I understand the rapporteur in that the rapporteur goes to the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment with your paragraph, which states that 40 million should be added. kr., extra for the pot?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317194536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317194537	As I mentioned in relation to questions to the Minister, I believe that it is actually a duty when you are responsible and have the privilege of being allowed to sit in the driver's seat. In fact, I think it is a ministerial duty to make a suggestion as to how we can get the ends to meet and find funding that will enable this wish of a broad majority of the Folketing to be financed. It is, as I see it, the duty of a minister, in other words to make a bid for them and to invite the parties to discuss how we can get the ends to meet.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317194616	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur of the Left and then the next rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party. Mrs. Astrid Carøe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317194642	Thank you. For us in the SF, it is absolutely crucial that we have an education system where there is room for everyone and where children and young people have equal opportunities. Therefore, it is also a matter for us that young people who have been placed or otherwise had difficult conditions enter the education system on as much as possible as their classmates and fellow students. With this motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party proposes that young people should be able to receive SU just like their classmates. This has long been a really important matter for us in the SF, and it has been particularly a matter of heart for our social rapporteur, Trine Torp. In the SF, we have raised the problem several times, both the SU conciliation circle, for wage-pool negotiations and in committee questions, and after the Minister clearly stated in an answer to a committee question from the SF that the conciliation circle should agree, we chose to take it up there. And I am extremely pleased that, in the conciliation circle, there have been positive feedback on securing SU for young people in detention. Having said that, I very much welcome today's debate and welcome the opportunity to stress how important it is for us to find a solution. For me, it is essential that young people have the same opportunities for a good start in adult life. We have probably all seen the worrying studies that once again show that we in Denmark are not as socially mobile as we think, and that, unfortunately, the legacy of our parents is far too heavy. Many youths in protective custody have experienced failure in their childhood. Like many other youths, they do not leave home when they reach the age of 18, the caretaker gives them a milder transition to adulthood. Because nobody grows up overnight. The difference is that young people living at home with their parents are entitled to SU, and young people have not. That's not fair. Through the right to SU, young people will enjoy equal rights with their fellow students for example. to apply for disability allowances, SU loans and scholarships. I really believe that this is a motivating factor for young people to complete their training, and we must, of course, promise that motivation. When they do not have equal rights with their classmates and fellow students, we run the risk of branding them as outsiders and alienated from the education system, and that is something we must avoid all over the world. Hopefully, when we find a solution to this, and it sounds like we do, so that the young people placed there are no longer different from other people, the framework for self-payment must also be discussed. If young people in detention are entitled to SU, the municipalities will have to charge for detention protection at the location. The same applies if young people get a student job. In this context, the Red Cross and the Children's Council have previously described how a high level of self-payment can be demotivating in order to train or get a student job. We need to take this seriously, because creating our own income and participating in society on an equal footing with others can give people power to act and increase the possibility of social mobility. This is reflected in the many studies that show that placed young people with leisure jobs are doing better than the average of young people placed in care, and we must, of course, encourage this. That is why I very much hope that once we have found a solution to be able to give SU to young people in post-protection care also in the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Elders will take the debate forward and ensure a reasonable and clear framework for self-payment, so that the motivation of young people placed in care is lifted and we find a fair solution. Of course, in the SF, we are in favour of young people in detention being entitled to SU. I look forward to discussing the motion for a resolution further in committee and hopefully in the conciliation circle we will find a solution and funding together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317195034	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317195039	Thank you. I would just like to say thank you for a very good speech to the rapporteur, and I would also like to acknowledge once again the work done by the rapporteur, but also by the good colleague of the rapporteur. I think some very good things were said and I fully agree with the rapporteur that of course no children or young people should start their education by feeling different. So thank you, along with other parties, for having also helped carry it into the Chamber. So I'm just gonna sign for it from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317195105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317195107	Thank you. It's nice to have some praise when I also gave a little praise before.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317195112	And then it's sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317195114	I have a few questions. The first question I have to answer to the rapporteur is that of the rules on self-payment. Is it the rapporteur's view or view that this is something that must also be discussed in the conciliation circle, because as I understand it, it is something that can be changed, in other words by the minister of his own motion and by everything else? That was one question. The second question is what I also asked the rapporteur of the Left, namely about the 40 million. kr., which must be found for this task. How does the rapporteur view this, where should that money come from, and is it someone who has to be cut off from some other parts of our Su system, or does the rapporteur think that funds should be allocated to the pool?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317195212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317195213	In relation to the first question, I would like to say that I do not mention it here because we certainly need to talk about it in the conciliation circle. It is just to say that it is an important discussion to have with us when we talk about su for young people in defence, and therefore I will make a call to the Ministry to have a look at it also at the same time. As far as funding is concerned, I actually share Ulla Tørnæs' view that the Minister must sit down and see if there is any money that can finance it, in this very large pool of money, 16 billion. kr., I think it is, or something like that. But we will not accept that it means less to other young people or something, so if you cannot find the money internally, we will have to see how we can find them externally.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317195257	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, Mrs Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317195318	Thank you. Many good things have been said from this platform by those who have been there before me, and I fully agree that this is a really, very good motion for a resolution. I am in the same place as many others, because we in the Radical Left are also part of the conciliation circle and therefore believe that we are bound to find out where the money should come from when we want to spend it. I am very sensitive to something, namely that I think we finally got a very clear statement from the Minister that before the summer break in the conciliation circle discussions are being called for on this issue, so that we can actually get action behind the good proposal on how to find a solution to this challenge. Because it is absolutely crucial that we not only tell young people that they are, of course, equal to everyone else when they are going into education, but actually get action behind words. So I am very much looking forward to those negotiations and will look forward to them. We support all the intentions of this proposal and are really looking forward to negotiating in the conciliation circle so that we can actually help this group of young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317195444	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then the next rapporteur, who is from the Enhedslisten, has been prepared. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317195502	Thank you. The Enhedslisten also supports this proposal, and we have for many years also asked questions and tried to work to get it up and running, where it is, of course, about ensuring that people in detention actually have the opportunity to apply for su on equal terms with other young people. So this is a very good proposal, with which we support the intention and aim. But as you can hear, it is a matter that is, like, pulled out of the hands of Enhedslisten, at least in relation to the economic part. That is why we can also say that we do not want to vote in favour of this specific proposal because it is not funded, but we do of course support the intentions, and I hope that, as has also been my contribution here, what it ends up with is that we are actually getting this 40 million. kr., which we are talking about, as extra money for the area, so that we do not end up with the conciliation circle making an improvement in this area, while it makes some deterioration in some other areas. We have seen this in the past: when the su-conciliation group met and was supposed to make the ends stick together, it was not always that it became equally pretty, so we can only say that we support the proposal and the intentions of the proposal. This is something we have been working on for many years, as have other parties, but we cannot vote in favour of the specific proposal because it is unfunded. But we look forward to a solution from the Minister which will make this a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317195653	Thank you. There are no brief comments to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Mrs. Kathrine Ammitzbøll, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317195716	Thank you very much to the Danish People's Party for raising this problem which, as we have heard, has existed for a long time, namely that more young people in detention are not equated with other young people who receive su, even if they are in su- entitled education. The problem is that protection is probably interpreted as public support, probably because they do not pay rent and catering at the place they are placed. However, more young people are at risk of being in a situation where they do not receive other financial benefits, such as: This means that they lack the financial basis to pay for ordinary necessities, personal care, sport, leisure and other things that many other young people have because they live at home and have the extra funds for that very thing. So it doesn't seem quite fair when other young people can get sued, and it may even constitute a barrier to young people taking youth education in defence. The social policy statement of 2019 makes it quite clear how big a problem this really is. The children and young people placed in the school are doing less professionally, and it is also apparent that those placed outside the home are lagging far behind in terms of upper secondary education. For while 85%. of children and young people in general are completing an upper secondary education, it is only 60%. of the young people placed in care. So there is no doubt that youth education, even with extra costs for support in education, is a good investment, both for the individual and for our society. The study also shows that several young people who are placed have a disability. Overall, this means that the children and young people placed in care have a much weaker starting point in terms of taking an upper secondary education, which is, after all, essential for further education in life. So you could imagine that these very children and young people would have to hang a little extra in order to do a youth education. They will probably also find it more difficult to manage a leisure job next door, and in that light the lack of opportunity for su is not immediately conducive to being maintained in education. That is why we support 120 per cent. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a few comments on the intention of the proposal, but we would like to take the Minister at his word on what she said earlier to two of us and to the whole House, namely that we will be called to a debate before the summer, so that we can find a solution to this. And if it is difficult to find funds, one could suggest that we could take something from Arne's pension, because instead of sending people out of the labour market early, it is better to have children and young people in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317200012	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317200014	I simply have to seize it, that is, because what you want in Conservatives is to play a group of worn-out people against a group of exposed children and young people. Really?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317200029	No. That's not true. It is a question of the Minister having to find the means for this, and we do have different positions when it comes to who comes on Arnepension and what the criteria are for it. Of course, we have to take care of everyone in this society, those who are worn out and those who have a disability or are placed. That is precisely where we need to help. But I have to say that there must be means of resolving this, and fortunately the Minister has given a hand to the fact that we have to find a solution in the Su settlement circle, and we have to do so before the summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317200100	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317200101	I am glad to hear that it is still not felt that it is the worn out who have to pay for the su of exposed young people. Because I really don't like it very much about taking some money from one exposed group and giving it to another exposed group; rather find them on the whole or on the Finance Act or somewhere else. So I am glad that the rapporteur will not do so in this case, because I really do not like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317200125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317200126	We must solve the problem for those who really need it, and it is, after all, all those in our society who are mentally ill, worn out, young people who are housed, disabled people who do not have good access to education. We take care of all this, and that is what is the strength of our welfare state.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317200146	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317200149	Nevertheless, I have to ask whether the rapporteur is of the opinion. I was glad that the rapporteur, with perhaps a bit of a smile, said Arnepension, but I still want to ask about it. Will it be the case, when it comes to the negotiations in the near future, that it will be the Conservative rapporteur's statement on how money should be provided for this, namely that it should enter and open another conciliation with another group of parties and then tamper with this? Is that what the rapporteur is talking about, or was it just a joke?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317200228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317200230	I'm kidding. No, we shouldn't. It's somewhere else, it's locked. We have to find the means in many other places. We often point out that this can also be a reform of the labour market, for example. The active employment effort we have costs 13 billion. kr., and maybe you can do something there. But it must be up to the government. We're not the ones who have to make a bid for it. We have to hear from the government how they will find the money, and we look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317200255	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. If the rapporteur wants to prepare for the next rapporteur, that is fine. Here you go to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317200319	Thank you. I would like to begin by joining Mrs Trine Torp, who is sitting here, because when I looked back at the preparations for this discussion today, I could see that we have been asking the Minister almost in turn over the last few years when something is going on with this. And when I looked at it, I got sad somewhere, I'd say. I was a little discouraged on behalf of young people, young people in detention, young people who naturally wanted to be like other young people, could do the same things and have the same opportunities and the same rights. It's young people who are having a hard time. We know from the statistics that they are doing badly in the education system. I can also be discouraged on behalf of us elected representatives, us as a state and supreme system. We have been discussing this for the last six years without having it implemented. Everyone has agreed that it was the right thing to do, so why haven't we done anything? Back in 2018, I was here with a motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party. In the light of this, a unanimous committee issued a report which said: 'The committee considers it extremely unfair that young people aged 18 and over placed in post protective care at a place of placement should not be able to opt for SU rather than educational assistance if they start training. In the report, the Committee strongly called on the Minister for Education and Research to call the parties of the Danish Parliament for negotiations on the problem once the report by the Ankestyrelsen, which was under way, had been completed. The study from the Ankestyrelsen should have been ready in autumn 2018. It came only in May 2019 and no negotiations were convened. In September 2019 Trine Torp then follows it up and the Minister answers: I am very aware that this is an important matter and that a solution should be found as soon as possible. The Minister also says: "The Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior are continuing dialogue in order to clarify the legal and economic elements of the problem before a solution can be given. ▪ After all, it sounded like there was some momentum in the case. Then, having heard nothing more of a solution in October 2020, I thought that now it must be as soon as possible, as the Minister had replied a year earlier. So I am asking about the momentum of the follow-up to the 2018 report, and the Minister answers: "I am aware that a solution to this issue should be found as soon as possible. I shall discuss the matter with the Socialist Group at the earliest opportunity. Then it will take a few months, and then Trine Torp will ask again for the momentum in December 2020, where the minister will reply: I can state that it does not require a change of law to allow young people to opt for SU. The Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior have jointly identified a possible solution that requires a change of practice, including clarification of guidance and guidelines in both the social and the SU fields. ▪ Now we are standing here 3 years after the report from spring 2018. We have a minister who has a solution to the problem. We have a su-conciliation circle which I hear today all around agree that this problem must be resolved. At least that is how I interpret the debate today. Then there's funding. On the one hand, it is a small group, and on the other hand, there will also be savings, as has been pointed out by various rapporteurs here today. Then shouldn't we be able to find the solution? And I would say about the funding, that when I look at the initiative of the government, the children First, then there are 750 million. kr. There is, of course, a description of how it is financed. And I'm thinking maybe it could be a description we could use. The action is funded within the framework of the government's general economic policy. That's where we take them away; then we have them. So what I am at least listening to today is the Minister's undertaking that we will be called in, and I have a clear expectation that we will do so. I also have the expectation that the Minister will consider how to propose this financed. Because we all agree on that, so it cannot be that three years have to go by again. This must and must be resolved before summer. I see the minister noding, and I almost hear the undertaking, and if the cameras are good, we can cut it out and send it around. So I guess it's not gonna work? The alternative is, of course, that we have to make a report in which we reproach the Minister. I hope we don't have to. In fact, I hope that we sit down and find a solution very soon. With that, I would just like to say thank you for the debate. I think it has been good, it has been objective and it has been proper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317200816	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317200819	Thank you very much for a really fine speech and a very good review of how you and Trine Torp have asked questions in shifts. And I would just like to acknowledge that we have come here now and that the rapporteur for the authors of the motion has certainly also been involved in this. So thank you so much. And now it must not be another three years; otherwise we will have to go back together and ask even more committee questions and what else we can come up with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317200846	The rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317200849	Thanks for the rose.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317200852	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317200911	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption is postponed until Tuesday 27 March 2021. But first Mrs Ulla Tørnæs has the floor to justify the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317200937	Thank you very much, and thank you for the floor. Let me begin by saying that I really look forward to hearing the Minister's and thus the government's proposals on how we can ensure a better education balance for Denmark. Although it has become late, indeed very late, it is an extremely important debate and I personally look very much forward to the debate. In fact, I also sense that this is an agenda of which there is broad agreement on the importance. The interesting question is therefore rather to identify the level of ambition of the Folketing and not least to identify how we will then realise our ambitions to create a Denmark in better education balance. In the Left, if I may say so, we have opened the ball with, I think, an ambitious initiative which we presented in February. In the project, we address some of the structural barriers that exist in order to create more education outside the major educational centres. We have set ourselves the objective that by 2025 another 7 000 young people will have to take their higher education outside the major educational centres. That's what we need. Everyone must have access to good educational opportunities, no matter where they live in the country. And in my rapporteur's speech I will discuss later what the concrete proposals put forward by the Left are about. In the explanatory statement to the question, I would like to use my speaking time to highlight some figures which I think show what we are facing and what we are facing. These are challenges which I believe call for political action by both the Folketing and the government. According to figures from Balance Denmark, when it comes to population development, it looks very wrong. In West Jutland, the population development from 2010-2019 is 0.7 per cent. On West Zealand and South Zealand it is only 0.2 per cent. During the same period, Copenhagen has had a population growth of 15.6 per cent. Ringkøbing-Skjern Municipality is a very good example of the challenges posed by lack of training opportunities. On average, their citizens have to move 102.7 km to reach the education they want. As a consequence, the level of education in the municipality is lower than the national average. At the same time, local businesses in the municipality have major problems attracting skilled labour, and this hampers growth. The decline in population growth is 2.6%. from 2010-2019. It's going the wrong way, and it's just one example. It's time for action. We must create the right conditions for growth and development throughout the country. We must pave the way for training opportunities that match the demand for skilled labour, and I look very much forward to the debate. On behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party It is not now, it is only later). No, I would very much like to do so, otherwise the proposal for adoption cannot be included in the debate. After all, the rapporteur of the questioners is given the floor again right after the Minister). Well, okay, I thought I was going on till the end. The rapporteur can do the same.' That's amazing. But the order is that the rapporteur first justifies, and then there is an answer from the Minister, and then the rapporteur for the proposers comes on as the first rapporteur. So I got two shots in the gay. Then someone will come out of this even later tonight.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317201333	Thank you. And then we have the Minister of Education and Research for answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317201404	Thank you for that and thank you for bringing a very important debate into the Chamber today. And I certainly do not think that a late hour should be an obstacle to us having the debate properly and sober as it deserves. This is an extremely important debate, both for me as a minister, but also for the government as a whole. And it is a subject which has a very important impact on what it is for a country we live in and what it is for a development that Denmark is facing. Education policy is, after all, much more than education policy, because it is both about having an ambition that Denmark is a country where, wherever you live, you have access to education and that you are not forced to move from your home region to access education. When very many young people do so, it weakens the cohesion in Denmark, and we distort our country, and we risk it breaking over. There is simply too much difference between the major educational towns and the rest of Denmark. But it is also much more than education policy, and it is much more than politics that affects our young people. It is also business policy, because what are the opportunities for our businesses throughout the country to actually get the manpower they need? What are the opportunities for our children to be taught by an educated primary school teacher? This is a subject that affects much more than Education Denmark, and that is why it is so important a debate to take. At the same time, we also have pressure in relation to a search for large cities and a general centralisation in our country. A great deal of this is a force that we see in many other parts of the Western world, but some of it is also created by political decisions, and in any case I believe that we, as politically elected representatives, must take the lead in saying whether it should continue; it must be a political choice. That said, it's not to make this sound like a simple exercise, because it's not. As I have said, this is part of a global trend which can also be self-enhancing, when the large search can at the same time lead to the disappearance of smaller tenders and thus even more are forced to move. At the same time, we also see a time of falling adolescence, especially in northern Jutland, where I myself have roots, and in Southern Denmark, where the proposer is elected, and on Zealand. In addition, for a decade we have seen a sharp increase in the proportion of young people taking higher education, but that trend has also stagnated. So there are a lot of things that we will not be given in the future, and therefore it is very clear to me that if we actually mean what we are saying about this having to look different in 3, 5, 7 or 10 years, then clear political priorities and political action are needed. The government is ready for that. We believe that there is a very great potential in a Denmark that is better connected. This will benefit young people who are given new educational opportunities. But it will also benefit communities where education feeds both development and life, but also creates the atmosphere in the city that comes with having local education. This will benefit the welfare services, and it will benefit the local business community. At the same time, it may also mean that some of these smaller educational towns make more people settle down and start a family, and at the same time it may also mean that some who actually come from some of these local areas, who may have already settled down and established a family, and who do not have the opportunity to tear up their lives with rooting and moving to Aarhus or Copenhagen, actually get a new access to an education, also later in life. This is an important debate in every way. However, I also think that in recent years it has shown that it is not just about the will to find the money or about the will to create seats. It is easy enough to create places, the difficult thing is to get young people to read on them and actually get a living education environment across the country where there are students enough to maintain a healthy study environment where students thrive and learn from each other. And, of course, there must also be demand for the graduates in the local labour market. And I think that we are on top of some of the experiences of the previous government, where there was a political will to find the money precisely in connection with the ten training stations which should bring some of this development and some of that life to, for example. Skjern, Helsingør and Hobro. And even though the previous government found 160 million. kr., today less than 100 students read at these ten training stations for 160 million. kr. This is about a lot more than money... about a lot more than money. Having said that, there is also good experience with the model of training stations. This applies primarily to those who have emerged from the community, i.e. those for whom there has been a local demand. For example: Read approx. 40 students at the financial economist station in Holbæk and a similar number at the nurse station in Herning. On the other hand, we must build on good experience. It is very much about having local communities with and establishing things that stem from local support, both local, regional and local companies. I think that is simply a key element in making things sustainable, but also in maintaining young people in these local areas when the diploma is at home. I love to look across the country and see how many different models of this kind you've actually tried to unfold locally. Well, in Fredericia, for example, they have. good experience with a special training teacher training station where the students are taught in subjects targeted at the needs of the local schools and at the same time are offered training positions in the schools of the municipality alongside the programme. It is the kind of local initiative and ownership and wealth of ideas that I think will take us a little further if we are going to move forward, and we must. The government already has several initiatives in progress. The previous government's annual savings on education have been abolished. We have added 170 million. kr. extra for the pedagogic education, Denmark's largest education. Why do I say that? Well, I say that because when you cut small salami slices of the economy every year, it hits the little ones hardest. At the same time, an agreement has also been reached with the Danish Parliament's parties on several training places in the light of the covid-19 with a special look for places outside the capital. At the same time, no later than December, with the support of the government's support parties, we have found 50 million. kr. to specifically strengthen welfare education outside the major cities. In April we will be tabling a bill on education branches. With this proposal, we want to establish a new and more flexible form of supply in which the higher education establishments can quickly and simply establish an existing education in a new city. The new supply reform is based on the experience we have with the existing training centres, but lessons have also been learned from experience and has removed some of the disadvantages and limitations that have been shown by this system. Training branches are a new option in cases where it is uncertain and where it will be possible to establish sustainable education, but where there is strong support from the community and it advocates testing it in practice. The branches must therefore be established in cooperation with local forces, for example. municipal forces or companies, and be targeted local needs and strengths so that they become particularly attractive to new students. The new branches are one step in the right direction towards a more flexible framework for training institutions, and local anchoring does not do so alone. As the Prime Minister stated in his New Year's speech, the government has high ambitions in this area, which will already provide more opportunities for young people to train locally in 2021. It is the government's view that significant initiatives are needed if we are seriously to achieve a better balance in education, as the trend towards centralisation in some areas of education and young people's search for the largest cities is a trend with considerable force. We are therefore looking at the whole range of possible initiatives, that is. both the location of education and training places, and there must be a good financial framework for training outside the large cities. The government will present a comprehensive proposal on higher education outside the major cities by summer as a starting point for political discussions with the Danish Parliament's parties. In this connection, I have noted that both the Left and the Danish People's Party have presented proposals in this area recently. I see good behavior in that and it gives me, together with previous statements by a number of other rapporteurs in this Chamber, a hope that together we can take significant steps in the right direction for the benefit of the whole of Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317202519	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Now it is the case that this round has one brief comment to make to the rapporteurs before we start the rapporteur's line. So far, two have signed up. First, it's Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317202535	How good it is that you get to ask again later then, because I have so many questions. I am very excited about the Minister's speech and about all the things that it sounds like we have to do together in the coming time. This is also extremely important for the SF and was important for us in the negotiations on the understanding paper almost 2 years ago. What I would like to ask is that when we talk about education across the country and when the government presents its proposal, we naturally expect there to be some money in it. I just want to ask whether the government also has any idea that we need to save on other education in order to finance it being able to get more education throughout the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317202611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317202611-2	We sit and watch and turn all stones in proportion to what it really takes. But it is clear that we are not a austerity government when it comes to education, and that means that it is not my intention to fund something else. But I would also like to say that I think there is a lot to be done before we really succeed in this. That is to say, there may also be a need to look in directions other than those we have been used to, or to use other handles than those we have been used to. The government hasn't reached an overall level yet. We'll do that before summer, and then we'll bring it back. However, I would just like to say here today that I am not rejecting anything, but that I am delighted that we share the ambition and hopefully can also find something ambitious together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317202705	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317202706	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. I would really just like to ask two things, and I know that I have only one brief comment to make. Is the aim of the government that more young people should take an education, or is the aim of the government, that young people should take an education elsewhere than where they are doing today? I think it is quite important to have in place whether the objective is for us to have more people taking an education, and that is why we are creating new seats, or whether the goal is for us to move the students from where they are now. Then I also just have the question whether we can expect it to be with the Minister of Education and thus the Minister of Education calling for the discussions or whether it will be somewhere else that the government thinks these negotiations should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317202800	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317202801	I expect to be a part not only of today's debate but also of the final solution. So in relation to the question, I would say that we are not going to move anyone who is today studying an education. But I think it's worth a drill to look beyond the educational landscape and see how we get the best balance in the amount of seats across the country. Having said that, I would also like to stress that it is still more than one in five of our young people, 21.6%. of our young people who have not received a qualification before the age of 30 that if I am to have one ambition my life in politics, it is that we get more of them on the training car and that it must be less defining what they bring from home. I think part of the solution to this is actually to make education more accessible. However, as I also replied to Mrs Astrid Carøe, we are looking at everything, but it is the ambition that more young people should take an education and preferably even more places in our country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317202908	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317202908-2	Thank you. I would also like to thank you very much for the Minister's reply here. I think there were a great many good tactics in it, and I look forward to the further dialogue, of which I hope to be a part, although I am not part of the parliamentary basis of the government. However, I would like to follow up Mrs Katrine Robsøe's question a little, and my question is as follows: Is the Minister and the Government considering moving existing training places from, for example, existing training places? Copenhagen, that is to say some of the major courses, teacher training, e.g., pedagogic education, where there are large institutions in the Copenhagen area, to other parts of the country? Is that part of the Minister's thinking?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317202952	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317203001	I repeat what I said before: I do not reject anything in such an important debate as this one. I think that the two examples are examples of exactly what to do, I think, namely to take an education where seats are available today and then move places, because then it will be paper seats. I sincerely believe that we must have an ambition that it will be genuine living students who want to read all over the country. It is, of course, about strengthening the education we have outside the big cities and making them attractive, but it is also about having the courage to have a political look at the overall balance. I have a clear ambition to do so, and I am pleased that the signals are that so many would like to be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317203049	The next brief remark is from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317203052	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. We look forward with great excitement to being called to negotiations and to seeing this play. There's something I'm really curious about. In the past, the government has talked a lot about welfare education, that it is they who have to go to the country, but the Minister also opens up that everything is possible and that everything has to be included, so it is part of this that it is about higher education at all levels, that is. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317203134	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317203140	I would like to stress once again that I believe that this is the overall educational picture for which we need to take a look. It is clear that there is more need to be able to train for educator throughout the country than there is a need to be able to train for a chemical engineer, and there are some very special requirements for a research environment when we speak university education, and therefore the tasks are different. But they have all the way through, whether it is professional academies, whether it is professional education, whether it is universities, or whether it is maritime, whether it is our artistic, they have an influence on the Denmark of which we are part, and in which we live and live, and they have an influence on how to recruit labour. And, of course, it annoys me when we have large Danish companies, for example. in Sønderborg, who cannot recruit the labour they need. It is also a political responsibility to look at the needs of companies. So I am not rejecting anything, but I am not standing here with a concrete plan yet, but I promise that it will come before the summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317203236	Thank you, Minister. Then there were no more brief remarks in this round, which means that we are now moving to the debate, where there are quite general rules for short remarks. The first rapporteur in the rapporteur's series is the rapporteur for the questions, and that is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317203310	Thank you very much for the floor. What puzzled me a little was that the President said a brief remark, and I have a real rapporteur's speech which is not so short, but I hope you will bear it in mind. Once again, thank you to the Minister for the answer to the question here, and also thank you for the commitment that there will be a debate before the summer break. As I said, I have already offered to dance with the Minister in this field, and I look forward to it. In fact, in the Left, we are genuinely concerned about ensuring a better balance of education in Denmark, and that is precisely why we have taken the initiative in this debate, and I regret that it will take place at this late stage, but it does not make it any less important, as I said. Our goal is ambitious. We have decided that we want to ensure, up to 2025, that another 7 000 young people take their higher education outside the large cities, and so it is not a question of educational places, it is a question of people. We want 7 000 more young people to be able to train outside the big cities than is the case today. A month ago, as I said, we presented our proposals and thus our proposals on how to get there, i.e. how to achieve a better balance in Denmark. The initiative consists of seven concrete proposals which we believe will help to create a solid basis for economically sustainable education and training throughout the country. Muscle capacity must be built up if we are to pave the way for viable decentralised training provision. We're spending $100 million. kr. in new money for the game, while at the same time giving a million injection to existing and upcoming tenders by doubling the decentralised basic grant that was introduced back in 2017. We will give seed capital to decentralised procurement, because it costs money to run new invitations to tender. We want to increase university funding by 50 million. kr. Every year for decentralised university education, and we have decided on a law degree in Esbjerg, and this was, moreover, part of the Liberal Finance Bill back in the autumn. In principle, we will place new offers outside the major training cities and create volume by granting the provider exclusive rights for admission for a period of time where possible. We will create more school-based teacher training places, as the Minister mentioned from the Fredericia example, where the training is organized so that teachers work at a local school while they are training for teachers, for example. smaller urban communities. We want decentralisation written into the strategic framework contracts and to create a pool of 25 million. kr. the development of the institutions in this context. We will also emphasise that educational establishments have a strong link with local business, local society and thereby create a better framework to ensure study-relevant study jobs. For the Left, it is absolutely crucial that decentralised training provision is growing from below. In fact, I heard similar notes from the Minister, and thank you for that. We do not think that much good will come from the fact that we left central, whether in a government office or in this Parliament, we put too many needles on the map. Education offers must be conceived locally, in other words in cooperation with the institutions, the local business community and, for example, in cooperation with the institutions. local authorities. There must therefore be a clear match between training provision and labour demand. Only in this way will we create growth and development, which is, of course, the prerequisite for welfare. A good example is the many actors in Esbjerg who have come together for the great need for a legal education that exists there. Another example is in Kalundborg, where a diploma in engineering has been established in biotechnology, and this works because Novo Nordisk, for example, offers internship to students and subsequently also employment opportunities. The latest approval of a new engineering education in Sønderborg is a third example of an education that stems from local needs. In the debate on the need for education outside the major cities, I have heard almost nothing but the Minister and the Government and the Social Democratic Party talk about welfare education, that is, education for teachers, educators, social workers or nurses, and I fully agree that there must be equal access to welfare wherever you settle in the country. Denmark is far too small for something else. But frankly, for example, we are contributing. Is it not a prerequisite for good schools, good day care facilities and nursing homes that there are private jobs and thus growth? The government's and support parties' understanding paper only speaks of welfare education in the context of decentralisation in the field of higher education. The government's bill on education branches mentions welfare education over and over again. So what I am asking is: what about all the other educations that are crucial to development, that is, those that create growth and employment throughout Denmark, but which do not fall within the government's definition of welfare education? Instead of a very one-sided focus on the education of teacher, nurse, educator and social worker, I would like to call for us to think much wider, among other things. by stopping talking about artificial distinctions between who makes the most contribution to welfare. Without private jobs and growth there is no afford for educators, without educators parents cannot go to work, and that is how Denmark hangs so beautifully together, and that is how it should be, no matter where you live in the country. I very much hope that the Minister will accept our call, which will now come shortly in the text of the adoption that I am reading in a second, namely an invitation to call the parties of the Folketing for political negotiations, with a view to reaching a broad political agreement on how we can contribute to creating a better educational balance for Denmark. Then I come to the adoption text and, on behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes with great concern that in parts of the country's municipalities there is a decline in population development. A large part of the problem can be attributed to a lack of higher education provision outside the major educational towns. We know that many young people choose to settle where they have studied. For the same reason, many young people rarely move back to their home area once they have moved away. The Folketing wants to turn away from moving to moving, so that we ensure a Denmark in better balance. In this context, the Folketing instructs the government to convene negotiations as soon as possible with a view to concluding an ambitious and broad political agreement on the establishment of more training places outside the major educational centres. The Danish Parliament wants the agreement to provide a solid basis for local actors to come together in order to establish sustainable training services that match labour demand. • V 91). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317204111	Thank you to the rapporteur and thank you for the proposal for adoption, which will be included in the further negotiations. And, as I said in the introduction, it is because it is the rapporteur's round now that the general rules apply to short remarks, so that you can have two rounds and not as to the minister, where it was only one. So speaking time is as usual five minutes for a rapporteur's speech. There are a number of questions to the rapporteur, and the first is Mr Beazley. Bjørn Brandenborg from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317204135	Thank you. And I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left for his speech and also for reviewing the proposals of the Left. I understand from what the rapporteur says that, according to the Left's proposal, 7 000 seats, people, can be allocated to 100 million. I would just like to ask the rapporteur what kind of calculator the Left is using to get to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317204201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317204202	I'd almost like to give Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg a printed copy of the Left's paper. It's not like it's like that in the blue. It is the case that when a training place is created there is, of course, the usual taximeter, so there is funding. The 100 million. kr. is extra money on top of the hat to ensure financial muscles to have training places away from the strong research environments found in Copenhagen, Aarhus, Aalborg and Odense. That's it, the 100 million. kr. I'm gonna use it. After all, training as such is financed on an equal footing with training places. This does not change with the presentation here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317204253	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317204254	Okay, so in reality, that's zero seats you're proposing, right? I mean, if you look at the initiative that the Left presented last time you had government power, you did ten training stations called them, as far as I remember, 160 million. kr. There you got 100 students. If you look at what it costs to run education in different places in Denmark today, you can see that on Bornholm, just to mention one example, it costs 12 million. kr. to have 46 training places. So if you think you can get 7,000 training places for 100 million. kr., one is, at least in my opinion, equally optimistic. So I would like to ask the rapporteur whether this is the view of the rapporteur and whether the rapporteur does not think that if education is to be provided in the future, the experience gained by the rapporteur himself, when the government was in charge, requires the other thing when it comes to setting up education; that it takes more than just saying that it is now set aside 100 million. kr., or that now you want 7,000 training places or 7,000 people to take an education in those areas. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317204405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317204406	At the risk of sounding a little polemical, I would say that I am nervous that Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg can claim his school money back. Because if that is the lesson of reading the Left's paper, as Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg is presenting here, and Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg didn't understand a stick of anything. The 100 million. kr. is 100 million. kr. extra. Let me just give you one example. In Esbjerg there is a desire for law education. It's blocking sir. Bjørn Brandenborg and the government watched because you don't think there should be a law education in Esbjerg. But the University of Southern Denmark says that if they are to establish a research environment, a high-quality law education in Esbjerg, it costs money. And that's why, with the presentation here, we have earmarked a pool of 50 million. kr., which universities can apply for just such new educational provision. Then I have to repeat that the training places that exist, whether in Esbjerg, Bornholm, Aalborg, Herning, Sønderborg, or where they are, are financed by taximeter subsidies, as always. There is no change in that. We double the decentralised taximeter grant introduced in 2017. There is a maximum limit of 2 million. kr. per campus. This means that the University of Southern Denmark can spend a maximum of 2 million. kr. in Esbjerg, 2 million. kr. in Slagelse, 2 million. kr. in Kolding and 2 million. kr. in Sønderborg. It has proved not to be enough to give the sufficient muscles to be able to have the supply, and that is why we say with the presentation here: it has to be doubled so that instead of being able to spend 2 million. kr. in Slagelse prospectively can spend 4 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317204601	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Astrid Carøe, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317204603	Thank you. Despite the fear of being told that I also need my school money back, I'd still like to ask a little bit about this 7,000 study places for 100 million. kr. In 2018, the government then allocated 160 million. kr. to set up ten educational institutions, and this was estimated to be 500 to 1 000 places of study. So it sounds like the Left has greater ambitions, but less money for them, and I am a little puzzled. In concrete terms, 25 million have been set aside in the Left's proposal. kr. for initial capital for new programmes, but if I follow the example from 2018, it will only be 1.5 new programmes. Something similar applies to the 50 million. kr., which the Left will use to develop university education outside the major cities. A law education in Esbjerg, which we also really want in the SF, we have been told costs 6 million. kr., then with 50 million. kr. In other words, three new university courses can be obtained. There are many students who have to attend those courses to make it 7,000, so how is that related?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317204711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317204712	It is important for me to stress that the 7 000 are not 7 000 training places. It is 7 000 young people that we want to take their education outside the major centres of education. Today they take the training in the major educational towns. Toward 2025, we want the 7,000 to have the opportunity to take their education outside the major university towns so hokuspocus. I think that Mrs Astrid Carøe should read the Left's paper before she asks questions of the nature it had here. Because Mrs. Astrid Carøe is making the same mistake as Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg, that is, she divides 7,000 into the 100 million. kr., but it's two different things. The 100 million. kr. is extra new money, which we will give to the creation of extra offers outside the major university towns. We have an objective and a desire that 7 000 more young people, that is, people and not study places, take their education outside the major university towns.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317204818	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317204819	I hope that we will get to that at some point. I'm just having a hard time getting it together, and I've read the playout, Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs. I can guarantee you that. Well, it's like it's a little hard to get an answer to it, but then I'm gonna try to get an answer to something else, and it's about this whole thing about how we're gonna need 100 million. kr. I agree that we need to spend some money on this, even if I don't think it's the money alone that does it. In the Left's proposal, it seems as if you have to finance the 100 million. kr. by finding them internally in the education system. In other words, we in the Left would like to have savings in other educational establishments so that we can find these 100 million. kr. to decentralized training?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317204856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317204857	Couldn't Mrs Astrid Carøe just tell me on which side it is in the Left's paper that it is 100 million? kr. to be found in the education sector? It's nowhere. If Mrs Astrid Carøe had read the paper, Mrs Carøe would also know that this is new money. On top of that, I have said this from the platform several times, so I have repeated it. It is not a question of finding the 100 million. kr. other places in the education sector. It is a question of adding 100 million to the education sector. kr. So read the paper one more time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317204930	The next brief remark is to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317204933	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. I fully agree that we need to look at specific training, including for the private sector, around the country. That is what can create some growth and development. I would just like to ask the rapporteur what considerations are attached to the setting up of training courses which match employment, in other words, what are the considerations behind what is also contained in the text of the adoption. If it could be clarified, I would like to thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317205002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317205003	That is exactly what the objective here is. We know that there is a huge demand for skilled labour in parts of the country and that demand cannot be matched by supply because it is simply not there today. If you just take the law education in Esbjerg again, which I understand SF is also interested in becoming a reality, labour market studies have actually been carried out which show that in the wake of the relocation of very many state jobs there is a great need for lawyers in that area. That is why a regional study has been carried out which has revealed that there is a need, and I think that we should meet that need by setting up training provision. Law is one example. I have mentioned the engineering programme in Sønderborg, and the Minister mentioned the financial economist's programme in Holbæk. As I had the great joy and pleasure of being in charge over at the Ministry of Education and Research, there was a desire for an engineering education in Kalundborg, where there was no engineering education basis at all, so we started in bar field. Fortunately, however, an educational institution, Absalon, from Slagelse, took on the task of training which today operates well and responds to the needs of the labour market and demand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317205136	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317205136-2	But it is precisely to get in a little more and perhaps proceed a little more systematically. Could one imagine in this process of finding out whether it should be 700 training places, or what it should be, that some sort of cooperation with companies and regions was also put in place to look at what is possible, so that it is not only those who have shouted the loudest that get what they need, but that it is precisely a long-term perspective? The example of Kalundborg is actually excellent, because Novo Nordisk is up there, and they have asked for diploma programmes and other engineering programmes. Now I myself happen to come up at Kalundborg, and it is simply noticeable to see the developments taking place around the area: how houses are refurbished and how new goods enter supermarkets and other things. It is incredible, as you can see the visible progress, simply because there is a business and there is some training.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317205231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317205231-2	I think it is important that the needs grow from below. I am not a fan of us putting needles on the Danish map from here and saying that here and here we think there is a shortage of X, Y or Z education, because we must be sure that the training that we then end up approving, or which the Minister ends up approving, is also what corresponds to the need for labour in the local area. With the Left's presentation, we have tried to point out some of the barriers we believe there are for us to get through from below with our desire to establish a training offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317205315	The next brief remark is to Mr. Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317205317	Thank you. I would also like to ask a few questions about those 7 000 training places, which are not 7 000 new training places, but which are just 7 000 training places that have to be elsewhere. Of course, this means that some money will have to be spent on what is to come from somewhere else. And now we are somebody who has just abolished the Left's re-priority contribution. For me, this is what it says: if it is the case that we have to raise money for 7 000 training places, which come from somewhere other than where they are now, then we have to make a change of priority and move some relatively large amount of billions. However, the rapporteur may be able to elaborate on this. Because that must be the case if, as was said, the meter is to keep up. It is just the taximeter that is, and then you can sort of multiply the taximeter by 7,000, which means that it is money that must then be taken, re-priorityd, from the cities to some extent. But it may be that the rapporteur can try to clarify it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317205430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317205431	The question got a little complicated, but if I understood it correctly, it is about what training places we are talking about here. For me, it is a mixture of education which is now found in the major cities of education. And I would like there to be a similar supply outside the big cities, so that the young people who live there will have more choice. This means that you choose to study in your area rather than move to Copenhagen, Aarhus, Odense or Aalborg. It's part of it. Another part of this is seen in the example of law in Esbjerg, which is of course a new education. And I have a hope in relation to the pool that we have set aside, which is 50 million. kr. annually for new university courses outside the existing major educational centres. It may well be that SF thinks that it is a little bit with three such new tenders outside the major university towns, but I think that is actually big. In any case, this is something that is difficult to run into today. So it is an essential help to create stronger university environments outside the major university cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317205604	Sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317205605	I do not think it should be so complicated for the rapporteur. Well, I totally understand that those 100 million. kr. We need a number of different initiatives, and they are also described, but it sounds as if we agree that it is not about the 7 000 training places. We simply do not need to create any more training places. This means that the 7 000 must be moved from the big cities to another place. The rapporteur must then answer that question, i.e. whether it is so. And the money to be spent on it must then be taken from where it is today, and that is. from educational establishments, the University of Copenhagen and the vocational colleges of the major cities, so it is like that which is the project.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317205703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317205704	No more training places are to be created. That is what the question is all about, I understand now. Well, I see it as a combination. Some of the places are now in the big cities. I would like the supply to be greater outside the major centres of education. Today, there is not the number of university offers outside the major educational towns that we would like to have. It will most likely be completely new courses, so it is a bit a mix of both new and existing. I listened to the Minister saying on my question about whether the government was ready to move existing education, that it was not rejected, and I find that interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317205757	The next brief remark is to Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317205758	Thank you. I would like to start by signing both for having called this inquiry debate, but actually also for the proposal that the Left has made. We do not agree with everything, but there is a very good proposal from the Left, and I would like to start by signing for that. Perhaps a little further to what the previous speaker asked, namely whether it is about young people being given the opportunity to take an education outside the big cities, or that some of them should be written about these 7 000 places of education, that is to say young people who will be placed in a place, but how many of the 7 000 young people will be moved from the major educational towns to some other places, and how many of them are new young people, if you can put it that way?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317205858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317205900	It is important for me to stress that we are not in favour of coercion, nor of compulsory education, nor of the forced relocation of citizens of Danish society. What this is all about is creating new opportunities for young people. I myself belong to a generation that was forced away from my homeland to take a higher education. Fortunately, that picture has changed, but we are not in the end at all. You can just look at the four municipalities of South Jutland Varde, Esbjerg, Fanø and Tønder. If they had as many academics resident as you have in the rest of the South Region, then you could increase bnp by as much as 100 million. kr. a year, and you wanted 140 full-time jobs more than you do today. It says a little about the challenge we face when it comes to the whole of the Danish social cake. We have a potential here that we do not exploit well enough, and I think that is very much linked to the fact that you do not have the possibility of further training where you are resident.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317210016	Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317210017	What the rapporteur says about the possibilities I think, too, if I stick to what I have written down, I will say later I am very, very much in agreement with that. But I kind of asked how many of these 7,000 seats are going to be moved, so that they are closed in the big cities to open them somewhere else, and how many of the 7,000 places there are new training places.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317210041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317210042	The essence of the Left's paper is that new courses are growing from below, so I cannot stand here on the parliamentary platform and say that it is exactly 5,999 new courses that need to be set up, because I do not know exactly what it is that you want to place emphasis on the different places where you discuss opportunities with authorities and the business community, what you want to put emphasis on, or what the need is. I can only say that my experience tells me that if you support a local initiative such as this one. That is also the way to ensure that there is sustainable education and that there is a strong locally anchored environment out of it, and I think that is the best way to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317210140	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. While the rapporteur is preparing the speaker's desk, I can say that the next rapporteur to be on the floor is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317210210	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs and the Left for raising an important debate which is also of great concern to the Social Democrats and the Government. It is absolutely crucial that we ensure that we create a Denmark where you can live, work, live and, above all, train yourself throughout the country. That is why I also find it gratifying that the Left is one of the great fathers or mothers of centralism, whether you want to realise that it is a bad idea in Denmark to centralise in our education area, because centralisation of Denmark is not a natural development, it is winding up. It was not development that closed and centralised our education in the Danish provinces, but bad political decisions. That is why it is also a political responsibility if we want to restore opportunities. For years we have heard reports from areas of Denmark that have lost local education. For many of those parts of the country, education has been more than just an education; it has been a cultural institution that has created a framework for life and commitment in an entire community. That is why we need to do something. Today, we have created an education system which is very much pushing young people against the larger cities to get an education, and therefore it also requires political decisions if we are to change that trend. It is not just about ensuring that you have the opportunity to live and train throughout the country, but just as much about ensuring that our social institutions and our business community can get the labour they want. We have a political responsibility to ensure this. In addition, for years it has been a publicly recognized, at least a told truth, that the vast majority of young people move from the province and to the big cities to study a story that has been told as an unstoppable development to which we as a society must get used. But one thing is the story, another is the truth, because the fact is that the vast majority of young people are actually staying. If you look at the figures you can draw from Danmarks Statistik, you can see that there are, for example, in Svendborg, where I grew up, still lives 74%. of the young; in Skive it is 69 per cent. of the young; in the municipality of Ringkøbing-Skjern it is 55%. of the young people to mention just a few examples. And, of course, we also need to ensure that those who remain will also have the opportunity to get training and that the companies located in those areas also have the opportunity to recruit and attract labour. There is no quick fix when it comes to education, and those who try to draw a picture that it does there are wrong. If we are to succeed in creating education in the future, we must get away from the idea that education is just something we can place or that we can call an x number of thousands of figures, as some do. I think we have to make sure that when we do education there is local support; that there is a professional foundation; that we match the education with a local need; and that we then of course have to ensure that our educational institutions have a good framework. In this way, we increase the likelihood that training can become a sustainable solution for each area. In the social democracy and in the government, we have already started work. We have removed the previous government's annual cuts in education; we have added 170 million. kr. and most recently, the government, together with other good forces in the Danish Parliament, has added 50 million thanks for this. kr. to strengthen welfare education outside the major cities. But we are far from finished. Later this year, before the summer holidays, the government will present a comprehensive proposal on higher education outside the major cities to be discussed with the Danish Parliament's parties. As is clear today, education plays a crucial role, and that is why I also very much welcome the interest here in the Danish Parliament in a better educational balance, and I welcome the fact that we can look forward to more good proposals being presented. Against this background, I would like to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Free Greens: Proposals for adoption • There must be better opportunities for higher education throughout Denmark, so that young people can take an education in the local area where they live or come from, and so that businesses and the public sector in Denmark have access to well-trained labour that can support the development of all parts of the country. The Danish Parliament notes that it is crucial that the problem of better education coverage throughout Denmark is addressed in a way that makes education outside the large cities professionally and economically sustainable, including in relation to attracting and retaining students. The Danish Parliament considers it important to work for a Denmark in better education balance and therefore notes that the government plans to present concrete initiatives during the spring of 2021 as a starting point for further discussion with the Danish Parliament's parties. • V 92). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317210727	Thank you to the rapporteur and the text of the adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Then there is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur from Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317210735	Thanks for the speech. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he can reveal a little bit of what kind of action is being taken on higher education, and again what criteria are being laid down to try to satisfy the private sector. How is it that we ensure that we create the competent labour force that is needed around the country, and it is not just the public?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317210803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317210804	No, of course I cannot say what the government is working on, and the Minister has also said that it will be presented before the summer break. But I can tell you what are some of my own thoughts about what makes sense. That is, for example, the case. that when we in the Danish Parliament have decided that we really want more educators to come, more nurses to come, more teachers to come, so also ensure that we train that staff and allocate more money to it. In addition, it is also clear that there are large Danish companies which have problems recruiting labour. I think, for example. It was also the questioner who set a good example for the former rapporteur who was up here, and we have seen several examples of this. I myself come from an area where people are screaming for skilled labour, and that is why I think that, as a Parliament and as political parties, we have a responsibility to ensure that those companies can have that workforce. Otherwise, the solution is not new. In other words, we have seen how companies have chosen to move their production abroad because they have not been able to obtain labour in Denmark. So I think that is some of the considerations we need to take into account when drawing up a plan for the relocation of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317210911	Mrs Kathrine Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317210912	Now I do not think that companies only move out of Denmark because they cannot get labour. We also take labour into Denmark, and I think it is tax and some other things that make it too expensive to operate in Denmark. But let this be another problem. Because then you can ask in another way. Since the government is sitting here making this move, can you say something about what you've been looking at in terms of how we create the training that is relevant to business? Examples of welfare education were again mentioned. But can the rapporteur say something more concrete about what kind of training you might think is important for business, perhaps also where the rapporteur himself comes from, in other words Langeland and in that area? Is there anything concrete that the rapporteur can say about which training will help the private sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317210958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317210959	I think there are very different things. There is, of course, an example of Kalundborg, who received an engineering education, and I think it was very sensible, and I think you can do that in many other places. Sønderborg is also an example that has been mentioned today. I think that you rightly have good ideas in many places, and there are also several areas where you would like to have some education. I believe that the most important thing is to enter into a dialogue with areas where it can make sense, and that the most important thing is that when you relocate education this time, it will not be because, as a political party or as a former government, you have some idea that you have to lubricate a thin layer of education beyond Denmark, but that it will actually be because you have some professional considerations, a good dialogue with some municipalities where you want to take some local ownership, where you want to take some responsibility for the sustainability of these programmes. That's one part of it. The second part of that is, of course, that it is both about ensuring that we have a strong business environment, but that it is also about ensuring that wherever you live in this country, you must have the same opportunities to create a good life and to get an education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317211055	The next brief remark is to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317211058	Thank you and thank the Social Democrat rapporteur for this speech. I just have to admit that I find it a little difficult to figure out what really is the level of ambition of the Social Democracy when we discuss this important issue of getting a Denmark in better education balance. The rapporteur made a fine speech in this respect, but there was neither a target figure nor an economy nor a concrete offer of training. So I find it a little difficult to get a hold of what the Social Democracy really wants, in addition to mentioning education where there are already empty study places in the smaller cities. So what exactly does social democracy want in relation to this agenda? It's unclear to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317211149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317211150	Well, I hope that Mrs Ulla Tørnæs has listened this evening because it has just been said that the government is planning to present a proposal where we will be more specific about what we want in this area. But I dare to promise that the Social Democratic Party will not present a proposal in which one thinks that with a fingertips or with 100 million. kr. can create 7,000 places just to mention a number of places in Denmark, but that it takes more, that is, that we do not believe that simply by moving around some numbers, some target numbers, or in some different places, you can create the change that needs to be done. I think it takes a lot more than that. This requires us to ensure that, in the municipalities where education is required, you have local ownership, that you have companies that have a demand, that there is political support. And these are the considerations that the government is making now that you're making this move.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317211238	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317211239	We are in complete agreement on local ownership. I also think I was told several times from the platform a moment ago that it is also the Left's approach to it. But then the rapporteur says that there is more to it than a target figure and that more than 100 million is needed. kr. and a doubling of the decentralized basic grant. Then what else is needed? So it is still unclear to me. Can the rapporteur not reveal what social democracy wants more than what the Left has offered? Is that 8,000 study places? Is that 200 million? kr., or what are we talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317211317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317211319	Now I am not going to spend my time talking about the Left's proposal, but I think that what we were presented with just now was that there was nothing but an idea, that is to say that you think you can move some educational places by spending a small amount of money, and it has to be at the expense of the Left that you believe it. As I said, and I would like to repeat it, I think that if you are going to move education in the future and if you have a provincial town of a certain size, you cannot just say that you can move an education there. But I believe that it takes local ownership, that you have mayors, some local fire souls who want to run the work, and that you also have companies that can take off those employees. And it's not an easy exercise, because then I actually think there were others before us who had succeeded. You do not make a quick fix where you make the training places blossom all kinds of other places, but it requires more reflection, which is what we are doing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317211411	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317211414	Thank you. I am a little curious about the level of ambition of the Social Democratic Party when it comes to moving or getting new educational places. Because when you say that there must be more training places across the country I think we all agree on that, is it training places that have to be moved from within the big cities, or is it to create more training places? We also have a situation where there will be fewer young people, so immediately I would think that, overall, it may not be more. But where is the level of ambition in relation to that, and is it certain that it is all types of education, i.e. university education, professional education, professional academies, that are going to the country? Finally, will the dimensioning be used as a tool to say that there should be fewer seats inside the big cities and that some of the seats should be moved out? Or how do you want to do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317211508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317211509	I think I can just repeat what the Minister has already said, so that we do not reject anything when we look at this. It is too important for that and there are all sorts of different things that are going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317211520	Thank you, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg. There are no more brief comments. Yeah, sorry, of course, another round, sorry, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317211530	It could have been that the rapporteur had become a minister or something like that in the meantime, and so we only had one comment! I would like to hear the rapporteur's ambition in relation to that exercise. I am ready that there will be a proposal from the Social Democratic Party, and we cannot comment on that today, but that is why the rapporteur could have an ambition to do so. Is this about creating more educational places together, or is it about taking some of the educational places that are today in the big cities and moving them out around the country? What is the ambition of the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317211601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317211602	Yes, and I am not sure that I will be able to deliver the answer that I think the questioner would like me to be able to deliver, but what I can say is that there is no doubt that over the past many years Denmark has been overly centralised, which has meant that jobs have been lost. There are far too many people who should have had an education that has not received it. Therefore, this issue is much more than just education policy. If you are a Social Democrat, this is a value struggle that is about making sure that wherever you live in this country, you have to have the opportunity to get an education and create a good life.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317211637	So I would like to thank the Socialist rapporteur and ask the rapporteur to prepare the platform for the next rapporteur, and the next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317211659	Thank you. Denmark is a lovely country, and in the Danish People's Party we fight for Denmark to be a nice country to live in both tomorrow and in 100 years, no matter where you live. But our country is facing a threat... a threat that we haven't talked about enough... and that divides Denmark. The difference between land and city has become too great. Large parts of our country are struggling with depopulation and dying local populations. For too long we have accepted a development in which the proximity of the province is neglected and a life in the city is glorified, and in which the rapid development of the cities is taking place at the expense of lower prosperity in our rural areas. Many younger Danes choose rural life because of educational and career dreams in the big cities. You can't think of them in that. It is a good thing that our youth is training and has ambitions, but good jobs and education must be possible throughout Denmark and not just in the big cities. As the whole of Denmark's party, we in the Danish People's Party do not tolerate the uneven development between the country and the city, and in a tribute to the good life in the province we have therefore last week launched a national strategy for our rural, villages and islands. In the Danish People's Party we believe that higher education, professional academies, professional colleges and universities should be within a reasonable geographical range throughout the country and spread out. At the same time, it is important that we get more highly educated people for rural and peripheral municipalities. Firstly, it is good for coherence, because we need educational diversity throughout Denmark, and secondly, it is crucial that rural businesses can recruit employees with appropriate training. Today is 80%. of higher education in the four largest cities, Copenhagen, Aarhus, Odense and Aalborg. Our ambition is that much more medium- and long-term education should be moved out of the big cities. Why should higher education definitely be in the largest cities? With the developments we are seeing today, young people must go to the big city if they want a university education, but this also means that many academics stay in the big cities after completing their education. The Danish People's Party would like the existing system of training stations to include universities, so that a faculty could offer parts of an education in areas where access to higher education is geographically limited or where there is a narrow range of higher education and where there is local demand for labour. We see, for example. local demand for a law education in Esbjerg because the municipality of Esbjerg has a strong law profession. We can see how good it is for a city like Herning that the Department of Business Development and Technology under Aarhus University is located in the city. It attracts young people and creates lives and jobs. We need more examples of this, and we have already heard some of them from the previous rapporteurs. We must strengthen the establishment and expansion of campus areas in rural areas. The advantage of campuses is study accommodation close to the programme, a social study environment as well as academic and resource gains by having multiple courses under the same roof and administration. In addition to offering study accommodation, Campusser can establish cooperation between education, public and private institutions and the labour market. In addition to having more campus areas in rural areas, we need to have more different levels of education in common campuses. Today, there is no tradition of mixing university education and vocational training, but in a few places, such as: At Campus Slagelse in Region Sjælland there are experiments with them. In Slagelse, the University of Southern Denmark is present with a professional high school and a business academy, and the establishment of Campus Slagelse has been a significant reason why the city has recently experienced high growth in the number of newcomers. The courses in Slagelse share facilities such as library and canteen, have a shared study life and Friday bar. Although Slagelse is not described as a rural or outer municipality, its common campus must nevertheless be considered as a model that can be copied into rural municipalities. In addition to the efficiency of the pooling of premises and administration, there are also social gains with the aggregation of training courses under the same campus. Finally, we also need to use the dimensioning as an active tool for the dissemination of study places. The model should take more account than today of the need for educational institutions throughout the country. By setting an upper limit for admission to a number of higher education institutions in the cities, the number of study places in the largest cities is reduced, thus strengthening the basis for education in all parts of the country. Today there are only a few courses that are dimensioned, and there is no local dimensioning in the current model and so on. Try thinking about med school. We found here years ago that there was a shortage of doctors, especially a shortage of doctors in the countryside outside the big cities. What have we done? A medical study has been established in Aalborg because the whole of North Jutland had a challenge. There is a branch of SDU on its way in Esbjerg with the Master's degree programme in medicine, and it starts in 2022. In medical school we do precisely that, that we secure study places across the country and with the dimensioning support that the students choose the different offers. So summa summarum: we have to do something, we have to do it soon, and that is why I just want to call on the government to call for negotiations as soon as possible. We gotta get going. We owe it to Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317212228	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I do not see that there are any brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And thank you for preparing the platform for the next rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Carøe. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317212252	Thank you. And thank you to the Left for calling this incredibly important query debate. I can reassure Mrs Ulla Tørnæs that I do not think it is late. I had a query debate that started at 9:00 a.m. 0.30 tonight, so this is early. I'm just gonna turn my day around, that's great. A country in education balance or in better educational balance, on which the question is asked, is really about a Denmark in balance, where as a child one grows up in a local area with a daycare centre with skilled educators and educational assistants and already as a small one knows the local school where committed and competent teachers are ready to accept one. During school, you visit the vocational school in the city to see if it could be something for you to become a mechanic, cook or perhaps a sosu assistant, just as you know about the city's high school. You know that you can go to one of the major cities to read on, but you also know that the city or neighbouring towns offer more educational opportunities, because it is there that many of your former educators and teachers have been trained. Perhaps you already know from the time in primary school that you can be educated as an engineer or a laboratoryr and get a job at Novo Nordisk or study law because there is a board in the backyard. And if you continue to study an education in your local area, then studies also show that you often stay after you get a job, start a family. It is a Denmark in education balance, and it is an important part of a Denmark in balance. But how do we get there? And can we, with political intervention, stop the trend towards fewer educational opportunities in the smaller cities? We know that young people are increasingly looking towards the larger cities to train and live. We know that demographic development means falling youth years. We know that this will have enormous significance for youth education in the smaller towns. We also know that this will have an impact on the recruitment basis for higher education. The answer to the question must and must be that we must politically do everything we can to fight against the development or settlement that some have called what we are facing. And there are good solutions that lie just ahead, and they are not just in the field of the Ministry of Education and Research. Young people's education in the smaller towns must therefore be guaranteed a greater basic allowance so that they can be maintained in spite of fewer young people. We also need a new model for student distribution. And I mention this because it is important to talk about recruitment and the possibility of a Denmark in balance, so although it is not exactly in the field of education and research, I would like to mention it here today. Higher education in small towns must receive a greater decentralized basic grant, and education must not, of course, be subject to savings, as was the case under the bourgeois government when the green harvester was driven over all education. Creating a balance between education and training requires investment. New training places must be located outside the large cities when it makes sense in a local area, for example. Because of nearby jobs. Local support and anchoring are essential. But we do not create new training places with rapid solutions; we have seen this clearly with the training stations of the then VLAK government. The idea was good: more education in the province, 160 million. kr. for 10 new training stations, 500-1,000 training places. The fact is that today there are less than 100 students at the educational stations. A total of 13 students were taken up by 4 of the professional training stations in 2020. The teachers' training stations in Randers and Elsinore had to stop setting up teams in 2020 because there were not enough students who had applied for the programmes. This clearly shows that it is not enough to create new educational establishments if new students are not included. Success as a diploma engineer in biotechnology in Kalundborg shows that this can be done, but we must also remember to talk about the places where we did not succeed, so that we can learn from experience. Because it hurts to open up an education so as to have to close it soon after that. Part of the solution is more considered placements of new training places. Part of the solution is also better framework and opportunities, which we ensure with the proposal for a law on education affiliates, as well as part of the solution is economically sustainable education. But it's not gonna get us to the finish line. That is why I am also pleased to hear the Minister say that there is a need for significant initiatives. I am pleased that the Minister mentions the recruitment challenge, and I hope that is part of the government's forthcoming initiative. Because we will not get sustainable decentralised education if we forget about the student base. There must be an adequate basis for pupils to be able to create a sustainable professional environment. Now I'm running out of time, and I have a lot more to say... how annoying. There are so many initiatives. And it is also important that we get some money, although I do not think that money can do it alone. I think it is extremely important that we look at this recruitment basis, which is called: upper secondary education, guidance on upper secondary education and also on vuc. But for SF it is important that we get a Denmark in education balance. And we are optimistic because we can hear that there is broad support among the parties. Thank you. And I'm sorry I went a little late.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317212824	It's completely approved. There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur. It's Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317212832	Thank you. Thank you to the SF's rapporteur for the speech. I am very pleased to be able to listen to the fact that the SF agrees with the Left that the decentralised basic grant should be increased. We have set up a doubling, because we can see that the modest amount we set back in 2017 is not enough, so doubling is at least well along the way, we believe. I am also pleased that SF agrees that new offers should be placed outside the major training cities. Thank you. The rapporteur then stresses that the SF agrees with the Minister's draft law, which has just been consulted, on educational branches, but can the rapporteur tell me what is of economics in these educational branches, because I have not really been able to find that out?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317212924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317212925	Thank you. And thank you for the rose, for the rose, or whatever you say, it's amazing today. We also believe that we should double the decentralized basic subsidy. We think this is a very good idea. We just think it is extremely important not to find the money within the broadcasting framework it already has today, but to find new money. So in relation to this bill: we have also been wondering why new money is not included. We believe that this is necessary in order for us to be able to set up education throughout the country, even if I do not believe that the money is doing so alone. I think we need to talk much more about recruitment bases, about how we guide youth education and about all sorts of other things. But money must also be included. This bill doesn't do that, but I hear that the government is on its way with something, and we in the SF are glad it's needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317213011	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317213012	Well, then, together, we have to trust that we can push the government to put money on the table. As I have said, we have left 100 million. kr. on the table to ensure that we get a Denmark in better education balance. I cannot help asking the SF's rapporteur right here what became of the support for law education in Esbjerg. We had it as an amendment to the Finance Act and, unfortunately, the SF voted against it. So I actually hear that the rapporteur agrees that education such as the law of Esbjerg is an example of some of what is needed because it is some of what is demanded from below. So what is the reason why SF could not support the establishment of law education in Esbjerg, despite the fact that SF's chairman, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, has previously been out to say in public and has stressed that this is of course an important education and that it must be created?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317213115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317213116	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that we also think it is very good with the 100 million. kr., The Left has proposed, but we do not think that is quite enough, as the debate has shown. I imagine that more money will be needed when we can see how far 160 million. kr. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). In relation to law education in Esbjerg: It is also an important matter for the SF it is an important matter for our local MP, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, and an important matter for our President, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. However, as the rapporteur knows, when you make a financial law agreement, it is not always you get all your stuff with, but yet you vote in favour of the final agreement with the parties you have made it with. So we're gonna have to bring it back some other time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317213154	The next brief remark is to Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317213157	Thank you. The rapporteur has now come a little short of time and I would therefore very much like to ask what remains to be said in the rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317213213	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317213214	Thank you very much to Mrs Katrine Robsøe. Well, what I needed to say was I don't know, but I think I had misunderstood how much time you have in a query debate; I regret that I also think that there is clearly some potential in few strengthened, for example. Our vuc centres, which are really good at helping the group of adult young people who are not receiving youth education today, to get some skills at a vuc centre, either a whole hf or a pedagogy package, which then means that you can enter one of these higher education courses. We also know that adults are typically the ones who are looking for, or are some of them who are looking for these offers decentralisedly, and we in the SF are very concerned that they are also being taken in, so more people than today get an education, and I think this will help with that. And thank you!
ParlaMint-DK_20210317213306	There was a possibility of two times 30 seconds. But it's fine. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Katrine Robsøe for a 5-minute speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317213336	Well, we help each other every once in a while, we might as well. And thank you for the floor. For me, education throughout Denmark is about creating opportunities. It is about creating opportunities for everyone, no matter where they want to live during their education. I do not imagine that we can have all education anywhere, but I think we can do better than we do today. We can create more opportunities in several places in Denmark, but it is also important for me to stress that we will only create real opportunities in more places if we also ensure that the quality of our education also goes with those who lie there where there is a little longer between houses. In Radicals, we want as many people as possible to be able to train wherever they want to. That is why we also want more people to have the opportunity to choose an education close to where they grew up or where they have settled and established themselves with family. In order for us to achieve this, Radicals, among others, have. a balance principle, so that at least half of all newly created vocational and professional higher education places are created outside the four major urban areas. We would like to support this with financial incentives to set up education throughout the country; here I am thinking, among other things, of: the possibility of making a regionalisation taximeter and the possibility of making an economic link to the strategic framework contracts, so that we actually also financially support the development that we want to have on a lasting basis. However, we must not just set up blind education and then cross our fingers for some to read on the education in exactly the city where the training is being set up. I think it is important that we look both at where there is a demand for training, whether it is from the local area and its business community and public jobs and where there is a demand for training from future students. It doesn't necessarily just come by itself. However, I believe that we can support it by ensuring good quality and dialogue and by actually committing one another. For me, for example, it gives. It is a good idea that we are looking at a municipality, such as the United Kingdom. would like to have a pedagogic education, of course both to help with practical places, but also to find students, such as: may be the non-trained staff in the municipality's kindergartens and help them actually get started with the training. At the same time, we should like to have jobs for students once they have completed their studies, and that is why we also propose that regional differences in unemployment should be considered in the dimensioning model. I believe that we can create more opportunities for everyone throughout Denmark, but I also know that it doesn't come naturally, and therefore I look forward very much to the Minister of Education being invited to negotiations so that we can get action on those fine words, and I also expect it to be on this side of the summer holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317213654	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you for preparing the platform for the next rapporteur, who is already on the verge of jumping, and that is Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Bruno Jerup. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317213714	Thank you. I would also like to start by thanking the proposer for having this debate. This is a very important debate. Overall, I share the ambition expressed by several people that we will have education in Denmark in balance, some will say better balance, but in general in balance. For us, the social inequality in society and the geography we have seem to be following suit, and we think that this is a serious problem which education, at least potentially, can help to change. One might think, and it is usually said, that education changes the social heritage, the economic heritage, but in fact it is the case that a study by the ROCKWOOL Foundation shows that in the last 20 years it has not actually happened in Denmark, quite the opposite. So there's actually a challenge in this area on our part. When it is the case that we are talking about education, even outside the big cities, and in balance, I also think it is important to think about it more comprehensively. It is both about the economy you can offer the students, it is about housing, it is about what the quality of the education we can offer, whether there is guidance, what it is about a study environment you can offer. So that means that there are a whole range of factors that you need to bring with you. If it is the case that you have to make some sustainable study environments, even outside the big cities, and we think you should, you have to make sure you get all the parameters into the equation that we know means something to actually start and finish. It is clear that if it is the case that education is to be provided outside the large cities, perhaps less large places, it will mean that the costs that are per year. students will be something bigger. You have to count on that. And that means that it should be included in the consideration that one has about this, namely that one has to secure it, and it may be in the form of the taximeter, that is that it is higher for students outside, and it may also be, as has also been suggested by the Left, that the basic grant is increased, and we are also in favour of this idea, so that it can be a good way of putting a bottom under the programmes so that they have better opportunities to work. So there are some positive bars. However, in relation to the proposal by the Left on the 7 000 training places, it is not, as I understand it, 7 000 new training places, but it is just 7 000 training places that have to be elsewhere, and that means that we must have a reprioritisation of funds from existing training places to training places that have to be in the country. And it may well be that there has to be such a re-priority to some extent, I will not rule that out, but you just knock out your arms and say 7,000, and we may be talking about an amount of 5-10 billion. kr., which is to be moved from the existing educations we have. In any case, I think we should consider a little more in-depth how we can do this without destroying the training that already exists. So we were very pleased that we had abolished the re-prioritisation contribution and that we had added additional funds. In fact, we believe that if this plan or this project, which we are setting in motion here, is to succeed, then we have to consider our education system as an investment. This means that additional funds, new funds, must actually be provided. Then I would just like to say, as a small last thing about the government's proposal on education branches, that this is a proposal that we think is positive, and we support it on the part of the Enhedslisten. I would just like to say, for example, that in the Region of Zealand a medical education has actually been established, almost as a kind of educational branch of the University of Copenhagen, of Panum, at the University Hospital of Zealand, and that has been a great success, I can actually say. So it's an example of something that's kind of grown up from the bottom up, and that could actually be a picture of how to do it with those branches.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317214222	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur or, of course, to the rapporteur. However, there is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317214237	I have to ask a few questions about these 7 000 training places, which, as I said, are the Left's objectives towards 2025. In view of the fact that we probably have about 250 000 students, does the rapporteur think it is ambitious to work towards 7 000 more out of the 250 000 being able to take their education outside the major university towns or not? Is it ambitious or is it not ambitious?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317214318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317214319	Whether it's ambitious is a little bit of how you look at it. In other words, I am not opposed to having 7 000 seats. What I am critical of is that one does not consider that it should actually be a boost, so that we actually get extra, that we get more people to train, so that it should, like, be the goal of 7,000 more or even more; that is not it. That is why I agree with the rapporteur that 7 000 may not be many out of a quarter of a million, but you have to think about it in concrete terms, in terms of what kind of specific training you actually think you have to move away, and what is being done about the study environment that is then left somewhere in a professional education or in a university education? What are you cutting from, and what's left? This is, in fact, the discussion that is at least important to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317214417	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317214418	But what is also important to us is also that we look into a development with falling adolescences. In fact, there is a fall as high as 10-11%. in parts of the country until 2030. I guess you should also have those figures in mind when we talk about a Denmark in a better education balance. So that's a lot of layers we're discussing here. We want qualified labour to be available. I personally want an offer to be made to young people who grow up outside the major university towns. The labour market that exists out there is, after all, precisely in demand for their labour force, so it is a question of ensuring that not everyone goes to the big cities for higher education. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317214511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317214512	At any rate, I agree that it is important to ensure that people are trained. I would also like to stress, in relation to the fact that the 7 000 seats are being talked about, that, although it is a falling youth year for a period of time, it is, however, expected that in not so many years, it is just a short-term decline that we are also thinking of having more people train. We need many more people to train, and there is a huge, huge gap there, which we must have done something about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317214551	Then there were no further brief comments to Mr. Bruno Jerup. The next rapporteur is ready and the rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317214602	Thank you. There have been many good speeches, so I will see if I can make a small contribution to this really exciting debate late in the evening but it is really exciting and very, very necessary when we look forward to what it is for a Denmark we want and what it is we look into. For over the years there has been centralisation. Some of this has, of course, been necessary in order to improve economic efficiency, but there has been a centralisation. Despite decades of agreement between political parties to achieve a better balance in Denmark, we have thus been distorted, especially in the field of education, in favour of the large urban areas and to the detriment of the areas of Denmark where the other half of the Danes live. It may well be a bit a ticking bomb under the Danish welfare state in the long term, because it challenges our cohesion both socio-economic and developmental. Approx. 80% of our training places are in higher education, including universities, production schools and professional academies, in the four major urban areas. Of course, it is not entirely unnatural that the epicentres for education are located in the large cities, because it requires a certain amount of material and capacity to attract the good lecturers and professors and, of course, also a research environment. But that does not mean, of course, that we cannot make relocations, branches and training which, fortunately, we have already heard about today have taken place in several places and are on the way. That's very positive. For many of our Danish companies are located outside the large urban areas and produce almost all of our profitable net exports. We can try to look outside of Denmark and see what they do in Norway and Sweden. Studies show that regional education provides a good supply to the local regional labour market because the majority of graduates from higher education choose to settle where they have studied. There you have developed a network, you have had your time there, you have created some kind of existence, and you stay. Often it can also be cheaper to live there than if you are newly trained and newly employed and have to live in a large city. It helps to provide more permanent employment in the regions concerned that the highly trained workforce also helps to attract other economic activities to the area. That is what we want to see, because, as has also been mentioned, demographically we have a challenge. There is a declining population, and it's not just because of educational provision, because there has been this migration from country to city for several years in general. When we look at the reality, we have falling adolescences, at least for the next 10 years, and we are trying to see how we can adjust in the area of youth education. After all, it is important that we also think this into the discussion we have today, because there has to be a food chain. That is also why I asked the Socialist rapporteur earlier how to look at business, because we cannot think about education alone in terms of welfare. We must also think about customers, and indeed also about private business, so that we do not get out of here and turn it into a desk exercise. After all, we all want a more diversified Denmark where we do not live in social and economic ghettos. Because what we are seeing now is that it has actually already happened. If you look at, for example... Frederiksberg has 35%. of the population of higher education, while only 10%. of the citizens of Lolland and the municipality of Langeland have a higher education. However, it should not be an objective for everyone to have a Master's degree. An education can be many things. We are missing, for example. 60,000 skilled workers to be able to lift the green transition just within energy. There is also a need for good electricians, for good mechanical engineers that need very good and skilled labour. And that is why we also want to have educational opportunities across the country to create a better balance for Denmark. Time's running out, I see. And before the President looks at me, I will hurry to gather the last threads here. So I would like to say at the end that we have four major educational towns, and when the Fehmarn fixed link arrives, the nearest university for Lolland is actually in Hamburg. This is not quite unreasonable for a country of our size, but we need to think a little creatively to create relocations and relevant educational opportunities across the country for our young people. There are very, very many young people who are not going on an education at all. I think we could change that if we moved the education closer to them. That is why we support the adoption text that the government should call for negotiations with a view to concluding an ambitious and broad political agreement to create training places that also match the demand for labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317215110	It was exactly on time. I can only thank you for that. There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Seligman. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317215119	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. Actually, I think it's only 4%. in Langeland, who has a long higher education, so there are not very many where I live, who have a long higher education. But they then have many other good educations that you can use. Now the Socialist rapporteur actually mentioned that he thought that education should be looked at, but also at the local economy. In other words, what is the demand for, what are some companies, what kind of training could be imagined? And now the rapporteur himself mentioned this in his speech, which is why I would just like to give the rapporteur the opportunity to answer for himself what kind of training the rapporteur thinks would benefit the various areas of Denmark and stimulate our industry. What kind of training does the rapporteur have in mind?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317215208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317215209	Well, that's exactly what I challenged before. I think that we should be careful not to provide hoofsa solutions from in here, but that we should precisely find the solutions to what training we should have in dialogue with the buyers. I think that is very important. In other words, we have just had partnerships in other areas; we could also look at this in relation to education and employment. However, an area which is at least central and which needs to be strengthened in general is IT competences and also to expand where it is now. We really need a strong boost in digital and IT, it is absolutely certain. We need more people who go the engineering way so that we can just lift the green transition. So that is at least one area. After all, we have open education or, at least, unused training places in teachers and educators, and we really need to strengthen that. There we have to look at whether it makes sense to move those courses further out. I shall not be able to say that here and make myself an expert on it, because I have no assessment of that yet, that is, exactly where it should lie and where we could have a greater approach. For we clearly also have a deficit of someone seeking some very important training.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317215311	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317215314	Thank you. That was a lot of good kicks, I think, on my question, which was actually quite simple. The rapporteur himself came a little bit about it, but could we get closer to what kind of education they are? Conservatives think, for example, that it is possible to do so. Is it necessary to set up more engineering programmes? Is that what you're thinking that could make sense? Or are they other educations? For example: There is a great demand for more engineers in some parts of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317215348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317215349	I have just said that it must be based on a proper assessment, and we must see if the government has done so in cooperation with the business community. What is needed when we look into the future? We know that there is a great demand for engineers and for IT-trained people we can see that. There are very many, about 19,000 companies, who have to say no to orders because they do not have enough digital competence. So there is a huge demand where we need educated people. This is certainly an area that is certain in the future, because when we agree to the establishment of training courses around the country, we need to have the long view, because it has to be seen from a long-term perspective. Especially if we want to run businesses and want someone to settle, then it takes time, you might say, like developing some areas that have the offers so young people want to stay there and not move to a large city.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317215440	Thank you to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Could the rapporteur please prepare for the next speaker? However, since I do not see the New Citizens' rapporteur in the Chamber or the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, the next speaker is the Minister for Education and Research. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317215506	Thank you so much. What a rewarding and good way to spend an evening in the Assembly Hall with something as important as our country's educational opportunities. I would like to acknowledge the commitment and the many encouraging and uplifting remarks and expressions about wanting to be part of the further discussions. I would like to say here tonight that these are discussions that I look forward to unspeakable, and I certainly have a will that this is something that we are doing widely. For think, if we could actually make an ambitious common plan to take political control over something that has not been politically controlled for too many years, namely how our educational opportunities are distributed in our country. As Mrs Carøe wisely says, education is much more than what we are dealing with in our area. It is also about our youth education, it is also about our vocational education and training, and it is very much about our vuc centres, which we fortunately together stopped dismantling and stopped the savings on at the time of the change of government. Unfortunately, we didn't have time to take over the government before there was a proper stripe. That is to say, we have fewer vuc centres today than we used to have, and they are a food chain to the educations we are talking about here. But imagine, if it could actually be done, that we found a common way forward to a country with ample opportunities for education, no matter where you live, and with ample opportunity to recruit skilled, skilled labour wherever you operate. I would also like to acknowledge that several of the rapporteurs have, along the way, had the courage to have the honesty that I think this discussion requires, namely that we cannot buy ourselves from this. In other words, the example of the previous government's ambition of 500 to 1 000 training places at these training stations, which ended in 100, shows that no matter how much arm movements you make and how many millions you make politically, you cannot pay off that there is also a recruitment challenge, especially at a time when we are looking into falling adolescences separately in some parts of our country. And that's why we have to have political honesty in this, that this is something we can do if we want to, but it's not easy. It takes money, of course, and I would like to sign up to those of the parties that have already made plans and indicated that they are willing to do so, because that will be the case, but it will also be about how we recruit young people for our education throughout the country. It is an important part of keeping a country in balance that one can train. The Social Democratic rapporteur had some clever figures in his speech about how many young people are born, grow up and stay in their own region. It is therefore a great political responsibility on our watch to ensure that they also continue to have access to education. And one thing is that we would like to create new things together; I believe we can do that wisely, judiciously and in cooperation with local forces, I believe we can do it. But before we get there at all, it is also a matter of ensuring that what we have today is there tomorrow, and that concerns me. As Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl also says what kind of country we want to be on the horizon, and I have a concern about the fact that if we do not go in and take political control and take political responsibility on us, we will be looking into a few years with fewer educational opportunities if you belong to the large numbers of young people, as Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg talks about and actually wants to stay in their home region. We cannot be familiar with this, and Denmark cannot be served by it. That's why this exercise is so important. So thank you for actually taking this issue seriously across the board and for the fact that rapporteurs from right to left go in and say that this is important for Denmark. We do not agree on everything, and the emphasis has also been different, and especially the honesty that this is also a question of recruitment, I think we need to get right into the table if this is to succeed. But I am listening to a group of rapporteurs who are willing to actually take part in the work. I can't tell you how much I look forward to negotiating this. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317220037	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments to be made to the Minister, first from Mrs Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317220042	Thank you. I promised you I'd come back with more questions. Thank you for a very good speech and a good debate. I am really glad that the Minister can also see that this is about more than just money, because we can try to outbid each other, compared to how much money we want to spend, and I think we also need money, but there is also a need for us to look at the recruitment basis, and there is a need to look at how we have our upper secondary education in Denmark. That is why I would like to know whether the Minister also thinks that some of what we have to look at is • and I know that it is not the Minister's area • how to do, for example. Consultant at Vuc and at Stx to higher education, where there may sometimes be a tendency towards much targeting towards the major cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317220130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317220132	As a minister, you have to be careful to step in on other people's areas, but I would still like to risk the fur today on the expected post-grant of our Minister for Children and Education and say that I think we can become even sharper on how we guide. There is a huge challenge, which I think Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll also mentioned, about the shortage of skilled labour. It is also part of the guidance challenge. But this also applies to the distribution • Mrs Astrid Carøe himself mentioned the distribution of pupils in our upper secondary education. I myself am an old student from Fjerritslev Gymnasium in North Jutland; the high school wouldn't have been there if the Cathedral School inside Aalborg had only been able to expand unlimitedly, for then there would have been just enough of those I went with who had applied to Aalborg, and the rest of us would have sat back in Fjerritslev and couldn't have taken an education locally. After all, that is the consideration that we also have to take, and that is the political direction that I think we need to have the courage to go in and take here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317220233	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317220235	In fact, I think that very well shows exactly what we are doing, both in the field of the Minister for Children and Education and in the field of education and research. Because is it about freedom if there are some students who are cut off from taking an education because they do not want to go to the big cities? The last thing I would like to ask is that there are studies which show that some quite other young people choose education outside the big cities, and in an attempt to get these 20% as well. young people who are still not receiving youth education in our education system, is this not a good means? If the Minister does not think that this and the things we are talking about in the field of youth education are good means of getting the 20%. With which we really need to bring?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317220320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317220321	Distance means something, compared to how many we get on the training car, which is why it is a separate road and a separate means of getting as many young people as possible given the training that it is not too far. The same is true when we want more unskilled adults to train later in life. They have even more difficulty moving, that is, if you have first established with family. They must also have access within reach. And that also applies to our vuc. So, yes, all of this is connected, and in the end, this is a jigsaw puzzle that we need to put where we all win by having a country in balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317220408	Quite unexpectedly, the President's pretty large at this late hour... is quite amazing! It has to stop. There is a brief comment from Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317220421	Thank you. Well, it's nice to spend time with you too, so there's no need to rush too much. The Minister knows very well: I am still a little worried about what is going to come from the government of play in this area. And it is because I think that we lack answers to some very important questions about whether the government wants to close seats and thus actually lose out, that we want to ensure that as many people as possible take training. And that's the whole balance we're worried about: do you close somewhere just to create some seats that won't be occupied somewhere else? And now I overheard the Minister of Home Affairs and Housing in Question Time earlier, and he said that educational institutions had to be moved. Can the Minister confirm or deny that the whole of the institutions must be closed somewhere to open them somewhere else?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317220525	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317220526	All the way through this debate, I have said that I do not have a fixed and finished plan. And that means that I will not be able to explain a fixed and final plan today either. It is not an objection, but one must wait with excitement for a little while longer. At the same time, I would also like to make it clear that we are sitting and turning all the options on this agenda. It matters that if you run a company in Sønderborg, you can also see that there are young people who train in that city and who can be recruited as a labour force. It matters what is possible if you want to train, even just outside the capital. At the same time, we can see that some of these regions have very low education coverage, and that is why this is a gain if we get it right. So I cannot confirm it, but at the same time I can say that it is a task that we take so seriously that we have gone to it without closing doors in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317220637	Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317220638	Just to make it clear, it is quite fundamental to me whether we are talking about opportunities for young people or whether we are twisting their arms to push them into a certain place. And that is why I was a little worried when the Socialist rapporteur, at the end of his speech, makes it very clear that it is value policy. So what kind of value policy is this for the Minister and the government? Is it education policy that weighs heavily here? Or is it other types of value policy that play a key role in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317220720	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317220721	My whole reason for even becoming politically active in Fjerritslev at the age of 14 was that I could see that we did not have equal opportunities with us from home. I could see it, and it was always depressing: What you had from the background, compared to what you had of opportunities. I would like to arm myself with this, and I believe that education is one of the most important levers we have. That possibility must not be far away from anyone in our country. And this is the battle of values that is at the heart of me and of social democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317220750	The next brief remark is to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317220753	Now the minister mentioned his own high school, Fjerritslev Gymnasium. I personally believe that Fjerritslev Gymnasium would not have existed today if there had not been a visionary minister of education in the early '00s who, as something new, introduced what is today called the outskirtstaximeter. This is what created the basis for a high school in Fjerritslev. Good for that. The Minister has mentioned on several occasions this draft law on educational branches which has been in consultation. What is it in addition to educational branches that the Minister is considering should be the answer to a Denmark in better education balance?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317220838	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317220839	We are considering a number of measures that are about the economy, which are about flexibility for the forces that actually want to contribute to this solution and which are about better recruitment opportunities. We are considering a broad spectrum of things, and hopefully it will end up in such an ambitious scenario that it will actually move on to the opportunities for a great many young people in our country. I was a student of my own in high school just before the outskirtstaximeter came, and I can see that what was the primary threat in relation to the closure of course also meant something... was that you went from four classes in one year to three classes in one year, and it was feared that it would go even further down. So the whole thing about having young people at all is simply at the heart of it, because you can't pay for the recruitment, and that's why we have to bring both things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317220930	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317220931	I still find it a little difficult to figure out what is really the government's ambition level. The Socialist rapporteur did not help much. There were a lot of fine words, but very little concrete content, and I do not think the Minister is really helping to make it particularly concrete. After all, the picture remains that it is about welfare education and that it is about educational branches, but does the Minister really think that we are going to achieve just the two elements? I do not think so, and that is precisely why we have presented a comprehensive proposal as to what we think should be done. For example, the Minister is considering: to look at the basic grant and to look at a pool that can be applied for to support new procurement, whether it is academy education, professional bachelor's degree or university education? Is that what you're thinking about? Or what are the considerations? Then I should just like to say, for the sake of good order, that in the Left we are not putting forward the idea that institutions should be closed down, as I hear the government has been referred to for saying earlier today in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317221046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317221047	Our ambitions are towering in this area, and that is why we have not confined ourselves to thinking that we can buy ourselves for it, whether it is 100 million or not. kr. This time or 160 million. kr., as it was, the last Left tried to put arm with this. I don't question the intentions at all. I simply do not believe that money is enough. Of course, we need to look at funding, we need to look at the financial framework we need to look at the whole food chain in our education system, but we also need to look at recruitment. So the clear answer is: We look at it all and our ambitions are towering.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317221128	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317221132	After all, it is good to hear that the government has towering ambitions, and the Minister also spoke before about taking political control, and that we were going to work and that we were going to get started. In the Danish People's Party we really want to be involved, and we also want to get started, but I think it may have been a little difficult to get a lot going for a long time. I mean, one of the things that needs to be done in relation to this is the reform of appropriations. How are basic appropriations to be allocated? Do they have to be distributed differently if the institutions are to deliver differently? We have some training such as this. the training of teachers, which is in the process of being revised, should they also be considered as part of a new structure? Should we not really have a more general strategy on what we want with regard to education as a whole, not just in the Minister's area, but also in the area of youth education? It's a really good idea, but we're just really, really excited to see something manifest in something that becomes real. So can the Minister not lift the veil a little bit about whether you sit and make strategies and plans in which we get involved, or whether it goes as it has been for a long time, namely that there is a lot of talk and not so much concrete action?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317221241	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317221242	I think it has been said repeatedly today that it is actually an ambitious government in this field which intends to come up with a comprehensive plan before the summer and that you are all welcome. This is especially true of Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, who, with his remarks this evening, has said that the Danish People's Party has great ambitions too. So the answer is: yes, that is certainly the plan, and I hope we can do it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317221316	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317221317	I'll look forward to it. I am thinking just to take a concrete example of the reform of appropriations, which has been spoken for a very long time and which we are waiting to get started with. Shouldn't we start with that? Shouldn't we start this discussion? This is something that lies in the Minister's drawer or somewhere, and it is not something that needs to wait until a new plan comes from the government. Then we'll get to it in a minute, or when do we do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210317221342	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317221343	Yeah, so do we.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317221350	Then there are no further brief comments to the Minister. Thanks for getting the platform ready. I would like to know whether the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution wishes to speak on a final point, because that is possible. That's what they say yes to. Welcome to the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317221408	For the sake of good order, I would like to round off the debate. I think it has been a very, very good debate, and we have also, I think, come a long way. It is good to hear that the government has towering ambitions in this area. It is clearly ambitions that we in the Left share and that I also clearly sense that all parties in the Folketing agree with the government. It now appears a tiny bit unclear what it is actually for the ambitions of the government, and the government has not been prepared here tonight just about to reveal what is being considered, and I think that is of course a little too bad. But that said, we are very much looking forward to receiving the invitation from the Minister to discuss the proposal that is coming before we close down to the sitting-free period, and we will of course look forward to that very much. I hope that we will have a little more clarity about what the government's ambition is to move the individual degree programmes, is the new degree programmes, is the study places or students it is about? As I said, I find this somewhat unclear after the debate this evening. As I said, however, on behalf of the Left at least I am very, very much looking forward to being invited to the negotiations, and it may be that the Minister is linking several things together, because, as Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl mentioned here in the last round, so we have a hanging party on the basis of university funds, and it may well help us to find solutions for university education, but that does not solve the problem of professional education or academia education. So there will be enough to address, but I clearly sense that with the proposal from the Left for a discussion here about a Denmark in better education balance, ideas have also been aired and expressed what each of us places emphasis on in this context. Thank you for a very good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317221636	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is to Mrs Carøe, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317221649	I just thought that we might have spent a long enough time with each other today, but now my brief comment comes anyway. Because if Mrs Ulla Tørnæs is going up again and there is a chance to ask questions again, then I would like to admit a mistake I made last time Mrs Ulla Tørnæs was up there. And the mistake was that I said the 100 million. kr. had to be cut into the education system. I can see that they're not supposed to. But I can also read out in the first proposal in the Left's proposal, that is to say, the doubling of the decentralized basic grant, that the money and that is what I thought earlier should be found within the education system, and that is why I would now like to ask whether it is not true that it means savings in other areas, in other education in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317221729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317221732	It is the case that the decentralized basic subsidy is an earmarking of the basic subsidy that the institutions are receiving today. There it is that you can spend up to 2 million. kr. In addition, there are a number of training centres which are located in a decentralised manner, according to the number of training places available as an institution, but up to the maximum number of places available. 12 million kr. And yes, it is a clear political priority on the part of the Left that we want more emphasis to be placed on decentralised procurement. That is the prerequisite for us to be able to give more muscles to the decentralised supply. So, yes, that is a priority we want. We believe that it can pave the way for a stronger educational environment and a stronger study environment where we believe it is needed. It is a priority, just as it was in 2017, when we introduced the decentralised basic grant.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317221832	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317221833	Then we hit the one where the Left wants to save something in the education system with this game. And it was really good to get that straightened out. As I also said in my own speech, we would also have liked to have looked at this decentralised grant, but of course it should not mean savings in other areas, and I am very sorry that that is what the Left is going to go to the negotiations with.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317221855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317221856	But it is also a misunderstanding. It's not a saving. It is a priority where we say where we want the money to be spent. Instead of spending the money on the main campus, we want you to spend exactly as we did in 2017 instead of spending a maximum of 2 million. kr. in the decentralised procurement procedure, so that the maximum amount can be spent on 4 million. kr. It's not a saving. You do not remove money from the institution in question. We are sending out a clear political signal about what we want to do in education policy and what we want to do in order to create a better balance for Denmark. This is a clear political priority for which we are fully committed. It's not a saving.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317221947	Thank you to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. Then there are no more brief comments, and since no one else has asked to speak, the debate has ended. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place on Tuesday, 23 March.
ParlaMint-DK_20210317222004	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 23 March 2021 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
