ParlaMint-DK_20210119130015	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119130032	Welcome to party leader debate in a little unfamiliar places. This is the third time we have a party leader debate. It's still gone in some experimental form. I would like to make a few practical points first. It is the case that, when you are finished on the platform, i.e.. after its 3 minutes and the questions that may be asked, ask that you scout when you leave the platform so that it is ready for the next one. If there is a need for a little conversation, I would ask you to do it in the sidelines so that you can keep the distance. And then we have recommended that when you go to and from the Parliament Hall and in general walk around Christiansborg, where you are close together, you use muzzles. So now we're gonna do it. You're all sitting in unfamiliar seats, but I think I can handle that. It is the case that every speaker who comes on the platform has 3 minutes. And then every party leader who so wishes has two short questions or comments in every 1⁄2 minute. So there is a little short time today, but I hope we will have the same regime. That is why we can start the debate, and first it is Mette Frederiksen, President of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119130137	Thank you. I look forward to today's debate, when Denmark, like the rest of Europe, is in a crucial and serious situation. On the one hand, the mutated virus, on the other hand, fortunately, the deployment of vaccines. We are currently in a race against the new mutation, which, no matter what we do, will become the dominant one also in Denmark. We can see that the latest measures have an effect. The infection is falling, but the threat is clear. If we don't keep the pressure of infection low enough, we could risk an exponential increase in the infection. We must do everything we can to avoid losing control of the epidemic here in Denmark. Last week we extended the restrictions until 7 February, but the situation is so serious that we can very well see the need to extend some of the restrictions we already know today. Because it's a critical place we're standing. At the same time, we deploy the vaccines as quickly as we possibly can. About 3%. of the Danes have now been vaccinated. It is the highest share in the European Union and we are doing everything we can to get more vaccines released more quickly. The extended decommissioning is affecting entrepreneurs, employees, self-employed people. However, a lack of disease control, in addition to the major health and human consequences, will also have major negative consequences for the economy. I would like to thank all parties in the Folketing for the fact that we are jointly pursuing a wise crisis policy, which has probably been acute, but not short-sighted. We are pursuing an expansive fiscal policy. At the same time, we are investing in more education, skills, research and green technologies. It is not only responsible, it is also wise. This summer, hopefully, we will be on the other side of at least the worst part of the pandemic. Then it is time to look ahead and address the more fundamental challenges that will hit us positively as negative for the next 10-15 years. International competition will be harder. Some jobs disappear, others we have to create. The demand for training and competences is changing. We need to create a more sustainable society, and we need to strengthen Danish positions, not least in terms of digitalisation. Those challenges will be addressed by the government through a new and ambitious reform course that creates a larger and more skilled workforce and invests in our otherwise successful social model. This must be done in a way that is both green, socially fair and, of course, also regionally linked. We will present concrete proposals this year. I would like to invite everyone here today in the party leader's debate to take part in that work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119130433	Thank you. And one practical comment: if you want a brief comment, you have to press on. Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen made. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119130438	Thank you. And thank you to the Prime Minister. I think there are a lot of things we agree on in what the Prime Minister mentions here. One thing on which I also hope we agree is the recognition of what can be said, the simple theorem which states that prosperity presupposes prosperity and prosperity requires growth. Does the Prime Minister agree with the little rhyme?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119130508	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119130509	In other words, small letters can rarely stand alone, but we will not disagree on that, which is why it is of course vital that we not only pursue an acute crisis policy, but also a long-term crisis policy, in which we get invested in what is going to make Denmark stronger. And as I said before, global competition will increase. And that is why we need to invest in Danish business, in the green transition, but also in Danish employees. Otherwise too many will fall behind the dance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119130533	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119130534	Thank you. Then I think that the Prime Minister is also impressed when you hear the Danish Industry, which after all represents companies with over half a million employees who were out here yesterday to say that they would like to shout guard in arms. They would like to say that the amount of tax increases that the government has rolled out in just a year and a half is thus married to Danish business. Does the government recognise that it has not made it easier to operate in the last year and a half, and that at some point it has to be said that enough is enough; now it is not just going to turn more on the tax screw and make it more expensive to be a Dane, making it more expensive to operate in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119130617	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119130618	Well, I don't think we should just turn the tax up there. We have had a desire to honour some very clear election promises which have required a few tax increases. Then there are other tax increases on which we broadly agree in the Folketing, for example on cigarettes. I do not think that we should just set up the tax, but I think that we should also be careful not to let ourselves be locked up so much in one, it has to be said, a little rigid interpretation of our own tax freeze, that we as the Left, for example, cannot now take responsibility for any of the most important things in Danish society, namely our police.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119130648	Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119130652	Thank you for that, President. The Prime Minister's party has announced that it will support an impeachment case against the former Minister Inger Støjberg. Will the Prime Minister, or here in her capacity as Mrs Mette Frederiksen, explain the reasons why it is considered necessary to raise an impeachment case, that is to say to take out the heaviest thing in the drawer? And will the Prime Minister or Mrs Mette Frederiksen explain whether she sees that it is proportional to previous cases where the Danish Parliament has criticized a minister but has not chosen to raise an impeachment case?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119130724	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119130725	Yes, first of all I would like to say that I very much agree that an impeachment is the heaviest weapon that the Folketing can use in its control of changing governments. And that's why, of course, you have to use this tool incredibly carefully. It is also important for me to say that for me and for the Social Democratic Party, this matter is not about foreign policy or about support for the previous government's line in terms of child bride in Denmark, because it does not belong in Denmark, and we must do everything we can to combat that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119130808	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119130809	Yes, now it is no secret that we in the Danish People's Party are very opposed to an impeachment here. We think it's out of proportion. It is precisely not about raising an impeachment for equality before the law. It is more about having equality before the law, which is why you have to look back and see if you have raised impeachment cases in the past. If you have not done that where there has also been harsh criticism, then perhaps you should not do it here either. And that's why I'm a little interested in hearing Mrs. Mette Frederiksens or the Prime Minister's attitude to the proportionality of this, in other words, in relation to looking at previous cases. Has the Prime Minister bothered himself to have been back and looked at previous cases where you did not
ParlaMint-DK_20210119130845	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119130846	Yes, that is, a broad majority in the Folketing, which goes across the political middle, believes that the legal work that has been done, first in the Commission and subsequently in an independent legal arrangement, suggests that the Folketing should act as the Folketing does. However, I have no reason to suspect that the Folketing has not handled its task properly in the past in terms of control of changing governments.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119130912	Then it's Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119130914	Thank you. As Mrs Mette Frederiksen also explained, the coronapandemic has major consequences. It has major consequences for the economy, and we need to get Denmark back on track, get a clear economic plan for the future. The climate crisis is still here and needs to be resolved. So my question is actually quite simple: will Mrs Mette Frederiksen and her party help us to try to get a broad majority for a global plan, a green economic plan that reaches 2030, to get Denmark back on track?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119130956	Mette Frederiksen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119130958	I mean, I don't think there's any reason to be restricted by process frameworks, that exactly 2030 is the key point. Actually, I don't think it would be far enough to look into the future. It is clear that a ten-year perspective is crucial, but with the rapid development of our society in terms of digitalisation, international competition and the enormous need for more people to be able to do their job, I believe that we really need to have a longer perspective in our work. Nor do I think there is any reason to be restricted by the fact that it should be a plan that is being organised in a certain way. However, the work to embark on reforms that will lead Denmark more strongly into the future is what I announce from Parliament's platform today, and there I look forward very much to working with the Radical Left as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131043	Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131044	I look forward very much to that too. I think that is how we need to have such a plan, and surely we should not be restricted. On the other hand, however, I believe that we need to be committed to very specific objectives so that we do not commit ourselves to a good solution in 2029, but that it actually comes on a regular basis when it comes to the climate crisis and that we do not put off the challenges. And the same goes for the economy, that is to say, we commit ourselves to making decisions on an ongoing basis until 2030, and preferably even longer, so that we invest in the future and can continue to afford it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131123	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131124	I am happy to commit both the government and the Social Democratic Party to an ambitious course of reform. I hope, on the other hand, that the Danish Parliament will be committed not to repeat the sins of the past and, for example, to pursue a policy of crisis which puts Denmark back. I believe that, in the post-evaluation carried out by the whole world following the financial crisis, it is quite clear that in many areas the economic policy pursued helped prolong the crisis and, in fact, increased the problems. It is now widely recognized among many economists, and I hope that recognition will also spread in the Folketing. Because it will actually strengthen our ability to strengthen Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131209	Thank you. Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131211	Thank you for that answer. In fact, I thought that was an excellent answer, including to the challenges we face in terms of raising the economy. But the overriding problem right now is Corona and not least the two mutations that spread in Danish society, and when I look at it, I am actually glad that we have closed Denmark down. We have come through well what can be called the Danish variant, because it actually looks reasonable, the figure is low. But I also get worried when I see developments in Ireland where the infection had been reduced and then you opened up because you got the feeling that now you could open up more, the numbers were small. But because of the way the new variants are spreading, things have gone very seriously. How does the Prime Minister think we should avoid this in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131255	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131256	Firstly, I very much agree with the analysis and I am curious about how the public discussion will be in Denmark over the next few weeks. Fortunately, we now have a falling infection and we have a falling positive rate, and that is some things that are going in the right direction. I can imagine with the discussion that has taken place in the past, for example in the spring, that when many of the figures on the surface look good, there will start to come pressure, perhaps also politically from some parties, that now Denmark will be opened up again. I think it would be wrong if we wanted to maintain the control of the epidemic, because the British mutation does not yet know the South African well enough, but it could potentially be just as bad or even worse, lying smouldering downstairs, and we risk losing the control of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131337	Pia Olsen Dyhr, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131339	Yeah, that's my concern, too, and I think it's gonna be a while before we talk about reopening. But I would also like to say, when we are discussing the reopening of Danish society, that I think that the Prime Minister should make some of what we have learned from the past, namely that when we open up to, for example, one of them. The children's area, the elderly area or elsewhere, ensures that we go back to the model of small groups so that we can quickly detect the disease, even if I am not even sure that it is enough. Because when I hear about the examples from Copenhagen with the nursing homes, where you have the small groups, you haven't been able to control the infection with exactly these mutations. However, I would very much like to urge the Prime Minister that we play the game again when we come to that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131418	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131419	The British mutation is a huge enemy in our management of the corona, because it is as contagious as it is, and we risk undermining the entire Danish epidemic control, which is also being done in other countries. That is why we must think very carefully when we come to discuss a reopening at some point. I'm afraid we're not there yet. I would actually like to draw attention to the group of experts which has now come up with proposals on how not timewise, but in what order one should reopen society. I think it is a good job that has been done and some of it, among others. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is with the smallest children in the smallest classes that we should open first, and at least with some of the considerations we have in the government. But it has to be done responsibly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131504	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131506	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. One of the things that is positive about corona, I think, is that a lot of people have realised how much strength it is for Denmark in relation to other countries that we also have a strong public sector. The public sector cannot do this alone; it needs the private sector. But right now it is also the public sector that really, really, really helps us all. And the public employees, the sosu in the care of the elderly and everyone in the health sector who has been working hard for far too long, deserve to see more than just thanks. They have been working hard for many years with cuts, and now they have worked even more hard, and some of what they require in the forthcoming public collective bargaining is also that they will see a wage increase (President Thank you), which... Then I'm sure the PM can figure out what my question is gonna be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131558	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131559	Well, unfortunately I cannot answer questions when I don't know what the content is - no, joke aside; I know what it is that Mrs Pernille Skipper would like to ask about. I have a great deal of sympathy for the fact that there are large groups in society who want higher wages. Of course I do. I am not interfering with collective agreements, I would like to say at the outset, and I would also like to say that I would warn against taking out some groups and highlighting them above others. Because I fully recognise that there is a great deal of pressure on a number of hospital wards, and it affects, for example, sosus, nurses and doctors very much. But it goes without saying that many groups in Danish society are under great pressure during this time, both in public and in private.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131638	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131639	I fully agree with that, and when I highlight the individual groups that I did not have time to complete before then, it is because it is also some of the groups that have historically been placed at a lower level of pay than others, and this has been delayed, both that they are less paid than other groups with equal education and equal responsibility, but also that we have a gender imbalance in our labour market, that is, that we have unequal pay. And that is because, many years ago, a decision was made that women's professions were worth less than men's professions, so to speak, and that is what some of these groups are asking for. In the understanding paper we say together that something new has to be done in the way of access to public collective bargaining in relation to the past. How are we going to see this in the collective bargaining that will start soon?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131724	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131725	So, I think there should be a respectful tone, both up to, along the way and after the public contracts. Hopefully that is what we are already providing, because the preparations for the public contracts are in full swing. We can't feel it because of the corona, but they're in full swing. As far as I am concerned, it is really primarily a question of being proper in the cooperation that exists with regard to the social partners in the context of an agreement situation. But basically I have very great respect for the Danish labour market model and therefore do not want a politicisation of the pay issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131800	Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131804	Thank you. I would also like to take a look at the announcement from Danish Industry here the other day, which, as such, puts a point under the fact that very many companies are under pressure at a time when the world looks like it does, because of corona, and when one does not discuss how high the wage increases should be at the next debate, but how many think about whether they have a job at all. I guess that also calls for what we need to focus on here to be how we create more jobs. It is also that we dare talk about reforms and that we create a strong society. So I am glad of what I have seen in the Stock Exchange today, but can the Prime Minister lift a little of the veil for the revival that has been with the Prime Minister since 22 December, when a Finance Act was adopted that went in the wrong direction in relation to it? Now we need to talk about reforms. What happened? I think it's positive, but what happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131853	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131854	I do not agree that the financial policy pursued in any way is bad for the Danish business community on the contrary. I fully agree with Mr. Søren Pape says that what concerns many people, both business owners and employees, is whether there is still production in Denmark and whether there is work to be done. It has to be said that we have managed to keep our hands on so many companies and so many employees that we have not been close to the increase in unemployment seen in other countries. So the crisis policy has been good for Danish business. When we get out of the worst when it comes to the corona, it is time to look ahead and, of course, there again we need a reform trail.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131935	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119131937	I would like to fully join my party in the negotiations on reform. I am very excited to see what the presentations will be. That they are needed, I do not think there is any doubt about it. That is why I would just like to dwell on the fact that, as best we have been able to, here in Denmark, we have held our hands under companies and helped them. We all know that some companies are under a lot of pressure anyway, that many self-employed people are under a lot of pressure and that many private employees have lost their jobs. But that does not change the fact that the President of the Social Democratic Party, as he says here, has said several times that there is no need for tax increases, that we should not have that now and that it is not the right medicine. Nevertheless, we have seen a long list of tax increases implemented, including in this Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119132018	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119132019	But tax relief has also been seen. For example, we have increased the research allowance for companies, we have created an investment window and, as part of the green tax reform, there are significant business tax incentives, not least over the coming years, so we do both. Of course, I also have to be very, very clear about the fact that when the Social Democrats go to the polls to introduce a right to a previous pension, we are implementing it. When we make a promise, we fulfill it. No one can be surprised that this was one of the most important individual political issues for this government. It has been implemented and, yes, there are some tax increases associated with it. We have been completely transparent about this all the way through from before the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119132057	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119132058	Thank you. The government will give seven Danish municipalities complete freedom in a chosen welfare area. That was the positive announcement by Mrs Mette Frederiksen at the opening of the Danish Parliament on 6 October 2020. I have a brief question: is the most important thing for social democracy to give freedom to the municipalities or to the citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119132123	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119132124	It's for the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119132131	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119132133	That was an interesting answer, because it is very badly linked to the agreement which, among other things, is. have been concluded in the area of the elderly. If the bourgeois parties could not be included in the welfare agreement in the area of the elderly, it is precisely because it serves the municipalities at the expense of the citizens. Because with the agreement that has been made, it is possible for the municipalities to sacrifice the right of the elderly to freely choose accommodation, freely choose personal care, freely choose rehabilitation services and freely choose other personal and practical assistance. So does Mrs Mette Frederiksen not see that there is a huge discrepancy between what Mrs Mette Frederiksen is saying now and the agreement that has actually been reached?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119132209	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119132210	No, thank God there isn't. Mrs Pernille Vermund jumps exactly in the trap that I reported some would jump in when we proposed it here, namely that once it came to legislation, too many parties would say: no, not exactly that, because we think that is really, really good; not exactly that; no, we like that regulation. And if everyone thinks like that, we'll never think new in Denmark. I would like to repeat what I have said before: changing governments have wanted to debureaucratise the public sector, but nobody has succeeded. I really believe that these seven municipalities are going to show the way, but that requires everyone in the Folketing to step back and actually leave it to the citizens, the relatives, the employees and the local politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119132253	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119132255	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. My first question relates to an article in the Ekstra Bladet today, which deals with 58-year-old Lars Hansen, who is being drawn extra into her early retirement because his wife has taken extra shifts at a nursing home. What does the Prime Minister think about that? Is it reasonable that a person who is already in danger of being taxed five times on an income which is already very low should be taxed further, because his wife is doing what we are actually all asking her to do, namely take extra guards for all of us? By the way, she's got the corona too. What does the Prime Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119132325	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119132327	I think it is extremely important, when we discuss some of the basic structures of the labour market, that we do not do so on the basis of individual cases for which we can always have sympathy. For of course you think instinctively when you see the front page of the Ekstra Bladet about a woman who chooses to work extra because there is corona: why on earth should that woman's husband be dragged into her early retirement? It's because we have an old principle of honor in Denmark that if you can support yourself, you have to do so; if you can support yourself and your household, at least for part of the social benefits you have to do so before seeking help from the public. And although I have every sympathy for the specific case, I would actually like to stick to the idea that in Denmark you support yourself and your family if you can at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119132410	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119132411	We are moving from the corona crisis to the climate crisis. At the beginning of the year, the Climate Council will provide a professional assessment of whether the government is on the right track in achieving our climate targets. In the alternative, we expect a rather crass criticism. Many of the green organisations also believe that we have lost pace when it comes to achieving our reduction targets. Greenpeace is today proposing to open and renegotiate all climate agreements if we are to have a chance to achieve our 50-percent reduction targets. Does the government have a plan on how to speed up our ambitions and climate policy if it is the case that the Climate Council's criticism becomes extra junk?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119132448	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119132449	In all respect, I have to be completely honest and say that I think it is starting to be too cheap with the criticism in the climate area. We are one of the most ambitious parliaments in the world. We have delivered just about a third of what we set out to deliver in 10 years. And again and again, you can just stand up and say it's too unambitious. We have now taken a great many decisions together. We intend to continue along this path, but it is becoming more and more costly for business, for agriculture and for the individual Dane. And that is why, in the future climate debate, we need to have more proposals on how this can actually be done without weakening Denmark's competitiveness or meaning that jobs simply move out of our country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119132531	Thank you to Mrs Mette Frederiksen. We've been through the round. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119132600	Thank you, President. And thank you to the Prime Minister for the despriting. A handshake or a corona-proof variant of the theme is what Denmark's largest business organisation, Danish Industry, is demanding from the government. It is therefore an organization which represents companies with more than half a million full-time employees in Denmark. They demand a promise that our companies will not be subject to any more taxes or taxes. They don't do that for fun. They do because they're worried. The government has raised taxes and taxes for billions. The government is withdrawing healthy people from the labour market. In other words, the government is damaging the economy. And when the business community warns that the very foundation of the Danish welfare society can crack within a few years, then you have to take it seriously. We agreed on this before the end of the year is prosperity, and we only guarantee prosperity if we have growth. The problem is that that handshake is not the government ready to give, not even with the elbow or with a hint because of corona restrictions. But generally speaking, you're not ready to make that promise. And even though the unemployment queue has grown by 40,000 people since the corona crisis hit, the government does not take the challenge seriously. On the contrary. For the first time in two decades, we have a government that makes Denmark poorer, 12 billion. kr. poorer every year, in the midst of a historic crisis. See, there is no vaccine against the economic crisis, but there is a cure, and it is a cure that can get Denmark strong on the other side with growth and with new jobs. First of all, we must promise that we will not increase the OECD's highest tax burden. With the tax freeze we ensure calm about the Danish and Danish companies' economy. We would also like to go further so that work can pay better. That is why we have proposed increasing the employment allowance. We would also like to make it more attractive to contribute and integrate by reducing benefits to those who come to Denmark. Finally, we want to secure jobs throughout the country, among other things. By rolling back the government's triple of the generational tax on family-owned businesses. Out of darkness comes light, and out of crisis there are good solutions growing, but we will not achieve a better future by leaving future generations with bills and debts, even though the Prime Minister believes that this is an old-fashioned way of seeing things. See, in the Left we are ready to give a hand to business, including a corona-friendly one, and I would like to give that here today: the Left will not impose extra taxes and taxes on our businesses. They are the ones who create jobs. We want to ensure growth, prosperity and welfare. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119132908	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119132911	Things get mixed up a little bit, you might say, in this speech. I assume, then, that the Left stands by the fact that it has been wise to pursue an expansive fiscal policy and that it has been wise to pursue an active crisis policy. Otherwise, companies in this country would have had to turn around and a great many employees would have lost their jobs. I really want to ask you something else. I am incredibly sorry that we do not have the Left in the police settlement because the police are one of the most important things we have in our society at all. And now that the Left is not going to open up 20 local police stations, which are really, really good for the coherence of this country, I would like to ask whether, on the other hand, the Left will help to ensure that we are given training in the year in which we have just entered.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119132957	Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119132958	That was a lot of things at once. Yes, things are mixed together and the Prime Minister is now here too, because what I am talking about is not aid packages; it is not the bill that follows corona. That's the bill that keeps going. That is what makes Denmark poorer: simply pulling 12 billion. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. I'm sorry the Left isn't part of the police settlement. I think we have got a lot of good things through the strengthening of SEIK, for example, a police guarantee. There's a lot of good stuff in this. Unfortunately, it was more important for the government to keep the Left out of it than to have a proper, broad agreement where the Left could also be in it. I think that's sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133042	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133043	It is probably very good for the country to have a government that actually implements its policy, that is to say, it is a little special that this is what we are being criticised for: to live up to the promises we have made to our constituents and to the entire Danish population. I really think that Danish politics is in line with the fact that there has again begun to be a connection between what is said before the elections and the policy being pursued. I have to repeat my question, because if we are to have a country that is linked, we need to go up against the centralisation we have seen over too many years. And that is why, since we are not helping to decentralise the police and bring it closer to the citizen, unfortunately, I would like to ask specifically whether we are going to engage constructively in the work that we have to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133126	Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133127	We would be happy to take part in that. It is, in fact, a priority for the Left. We have even proposed a law degree in Esbjerg, as the Prime Minister knows. So, yes, we would very much like to take part in that. In fact, during our reign, we carried out numerous relocations of state jobs precisely in order to achieve a better balance for Denmark. So this is an agenda that takes up a lot for us. And then just for the record, I am not criticising the government for implementing its policy. I am against government policy in some areas, yes. I criticise the government for undermining Danish welfare by making it more difficult to create jobs in Denmark. It is simply like keeping warm in a very inappropriate way on a cold day.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133207	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133209	Thank you, President. This corona crisis must go through as well as possible, but at the same time we must also do it in a way that preserves jobs and businesses etc. in Denmark. And some of what I think many of us can feel is an increasing frustration, especially among small entrepreneurs, small self-employed people, who find that they really find it extremely difficult to plan their daily lives. The last extension of the restrictions, with effect until Sunday, happened on Wednesday, at 4 days' notice, and if we think that we are going through the hardest months now, perhaps we could give a little longer notice. So, sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, could we not together try to take some initiatives which really provide the small self-employed with better opportunities to get through this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133254	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133255	Well, I have a very, very great sympathy for the small self-employed, who are in a very, very difficult situation. We should give the best warnings at all, and I actually have the impression that we are trying to do so. Another point where I really think it is lame is that view of being independent. For it is the case that employees can get up to DKK 30,000. in compensation for wages from the packages we have jointly adopted, while an independent person can only receive DKK 23,000. There you have to understand from the acting Minister for Business that you can just open a webshop, as he said in a consultation. And it bears witness, excuse me, to what it is for once in the labour market that government ministers have had before they were put on those chairs down here. So it is difficult to be a hairdresser and open a webshop; it is difficult to be a physiotherapist and open a webshop. There should be more respect for the people who keep the wheels running in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133349	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133351	I appreciate the answer. And if you now expand it in relation to hairdressers and physiotherapists etc., there are, for example, also the clothing shops, whose warehouses are actually written down day by day, because you can go to Kickly or Bilka, or where you can now go, and buy clothes that you then don't have to buy in a clothing store, when they finally open again. And it is necessary to look at it because there is a very dramatic and particularly vulnerable situation right now, how on earth the small self-employed get through it, so there is also a workplace for the self-employed and the employees they might have in the store after all this. And is mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, President-in-Office of the Council. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133431	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133433	We will not disagree on that. I very much agree with that. I understand if, as a small bookseller or as a clothing store, you are frustrated that customers are going to the shops that can keep open. I understand that. On the other hand, I do not believe that the solution is to close down the businesses that can keep open, because then it will all go over to online trading, and it is not always from Denmark. So this isn't an easy situation. But we need to do better; we need to hold our hands even more over the private operators, who are therefore unable to open their business. These are people who are deeply dependent on the help we are providing them now, and it will be far more expensive if we do not help them through it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133513	Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133515	Thank you so much. I also hear a concern for business, but also an eagerness to have an economic plan of this kind. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. So I also have the same question for Mrs Mette Frederiksen: could we not gather together to make a green economic 2030 plan? For my sake, it must go further. But we could at least agree that for the next 10 years we need to add the rails to what kind of Denmark we want to invest in and how to get the money for it. Will Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen and his party share in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133554	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133556	We would like to take part in this furiously, because I think it is important that we connect these two things. The green transition must and must be market driven, because if it is not, it will be symbolic policy; it must be genuine green, it must be the market that drives it here. Our task here is to set the framework for the responsible companies, which are already in full swing, to have the best chance of operating the green transition. Because if we have to have a meat-free Thursday, i.e. these symbolic measures, then it is not going to happen. This must be the prerequisite for our having a welfare society and for our children to have both a planet and a Welfare Denmark to grow up in.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133636	Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133638	I am very pleased to hear that, and I basically agree with it. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen also spoke about the fact that we cannot just impose new taxes and taxes. I agree with that basically. At the same time, it must not be the case that we cannot move on anything. That is why I hope that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen also wants to commit himself to a commitment because otherwise we will not be able to drive our society forward if the green transition is to take place and it will not be a rifle fee that will prevent us from actually driving Denmark forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133709	Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133711	On behalf of rifle hunters in Denmark, I am very sorry about the comparison, but listen to this: There are many myths about the left tax stop. Most recently it has been misunderstood by the Prime Minister of the Stock Exchange here today. Our tax freeze is designed in such a way that we can just move things around, because we want a green transition, we want a green tax reform. Together with the Radical Left, we pressed for a green tax reform. We continue to press for this, because perhaps that was not exactly what we had imagined when we met in December. But, of course, you have to be able to move around the blocks, because this creates the right incentives. What I am saying is that it should not be more expensive and more difficult to create jobs in Denmark, but it should be more green.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133754	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133756	I think that was a very interesting answer. And I think it was interesting, given that when we made the police agreement, the Left would not be there because we made it a little more expensive, that is, with the passport and driving licence, after many, many years, without there being any price increases. But fair enough, that's why you didn't want to make a police deal. Now we have the opportunity to come up with an agreement for climate and agriculture in the near future, and it is of course interesting whether the Left will join it and actively say: we would like to be involved in making CO2 What is the Left's approach to entering these agricultural and climate negotiations? Is it about the ambition to join, or will it be about to say: we are not going to accept tax increases?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133843	Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133845	We always go We are constructive and I think we also showed that in the police negotiations until it was imperative for the government to kick the Left out of the room. We're gonna be in this area, too. I have already presented one of our answers to this in connection with the Left Finance Bill. We would like to allocate 5 billion. kr. for the removal of low bottom soils. I think this is an important initiative to take, because it is one of the areas where we can actually go quite a long way when it comes to agriculture. And for once, it is an area where the environment and climate go hand in hand, and it is difficult to find.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133919	Pia Olsen Dyhr, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119133921	Yeah, I think that's gonna be some really interesting negotiations. The SF is also willing to go in and discuss how we can compensate agriculture, but we would also like to use the agricultural subsidies we receive from the European Union. It will be the case that from 2021 they can be used for climate reasons, so that you do not have to grow your land; you can still receive compensation from the EU's agricultural aid. It is, of course, a mechanism that makes it cheaper for us as legislators in Denmark to ensure the green conversion of agriculture. I would really like to hear what the Left thinks the objective should be for what agriculture should deliver from CO2 is that 4 million. t, it is 3 million. t, it is 2 million. t CO 2 What will the Left's bid be?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134002	Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134003	We will be discussing this in the negotiations, and I will not advance that now. What I think is important is that the overall framework for this is that the food production we have is because there are mouths to feed. And the mouths to feed are there, whether you move food production abroad or it is here. And honestly, I think it should be here. We make the world's best food, we do the most climate-friendly, environmentally friendly and animal-friendly. So let us keep this on Danish soil, where it creates jobs, and where, frankly, we are quite good at it, to put it mildly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134038	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134040	Thank you. Thank you for your speech to the President of the Left. The Enhedslisten and the Left often have some discussions where the Left does not think Enhedslisten fits enough for private business. I guess we can put it that way, right? But one of the things we really care a lot about in this crisis, because it is not just a health crisis; it is also to a very great extent an economic crisis. It also misses the mark when it comes to businessmen, especially the very small self-employed, single-member companies, the freelancers, in other words all those who, in reality, live an enormously precarious working life and who are also hit hardest. And one of the things we wanted to do was to give small self-employed people the opportunity to get cash benefits without having to close the company completely, but with a cvr number in hibernation. Isn't that something that the Enhedslisten and the Left could agree on?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134131	Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134132	At least I know that this is something that has been discussed. I think we discussed it back in the spring of 2020, when this was up and running. And as I understood it and forgive me, if I remember correctly, the challenge is that you have to shut down a whole industry if you're going to put companies into hibernation. What I think is important is that we do not have this discrimination against the self-employed in relation to employees. For there are therefore some people out there who are self-employed, who have bills to be paid, who have a rent and who therefore lack their income. And we have to help them, because they really should be there when we get out on the other side. Because they are thus helping to create the things we live on as a society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134209	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134211	We would also very much like to help increase the compensation for the small self-employed, especially if we can also set up compensation for those people who then lose their jobs, they fired, up. But what I was asking was whether we should not generally make it possible for small self-employed people to have such a period. There are many right now, but hopefully when we get back on our feet, there will also be small self-employed people who will at times hang with a certain body part in the water crust. And if they could be allowed to hibernate in the company without having to sell the inventory and close the cvr number, just for a month or two, and get some cash benefits, then it might be they could run the business further afterwards. Should we not agree that this is an objective and that it is a little too strange that we have not already given them that opportunity today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134254	Here you go, Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134255	I think we share the ambition of helping the self-employed more than we do, helping the freelancers, helping the sole proprietors, and we also did a lot in the spring, but we are certainly not in the end yet. So, if the possibility exists for such a scheme as that outlined by Mrs Pernille Skipper here, let us look at it. What is important to me is not how we do it, but that we do it and that we do it now, and that we take care to help those people who are in a deeply distressing situation. We will not disagree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134320	The next person who has asked for a brief comment is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134325	Thank you. Does the Greens share the impression that the government, with the new welfare agreement in the area of the elderly, risks reducing the right of the elderly to free elections in the selected municipalities and, if so, if the answer is yes, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen then put some words on what the Left thinks about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134346	Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134348	In other words, where I get worried, when you say that some people have to have free choice and that you look at how you implement it, you risk reducing the freedom of choice. Because we are all different and thank God for it, and that is why we have different needs. That is why I say that in the area of the elderly and in the whole area of welfare, we must have a much greater degree of freedom of choice. We need something to choose from. We need a free nursing home in each municipality. We're gonna need boards where relatives get involved. We must have a much greater commitment and we must have much more opportunities. But these are opportunities for the citizen, not for the municipality, not for the system. We must put man before the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134427	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134429	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and I am delighted with the words of the President of the United Left. After all, it is difficult to call it complete freedom, as Mrs Mette Frederiksen did at the opening of the Folketing, when allowing municipalities to reduce the right of the elderly to free elections. Well, then, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen the party leader has already done so a little bit more about how to put this into practice in the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134459	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134501	I want free choice on all welfare shelves. Now Mrs Pernille Vermund is asking specifically about the elderly area. In other words, as I said, I think that there should be a free nursing home in each municipality, not because a free nursing home is better than public ones, but because it is something else and because there has to be something to choose from. It can be themed. It can be for musicians, it can be a gay nursing home, it can be anything. Now, give us the opportunity to choose freely. It is not certain that we will end up in the same place, because what is best for me is not necessarily the best for Mrs Pernille Vermund. So let's make sure this really free choice and the information on how to make that choice. Because at the time when you have to make it, you are in a situation where you need help.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134542	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134544	Thank you. My first question is about what the party leader thinks about vaccine passports. It is, of course, the case that we are so pleased that this vaccine has arrived and that the vaccinations are under way, and it seems that, in the course of vaccination, we can obtain a vaccine passport that may provide access to cultural events, football matches and that we can cross the border. Does the rapporteur think that it might be possible to supplement this by, for example, entering a sporting event if a negative coronate test, approved by the health authorities, can be detected or can be shown to have antibodies after having actually had corona? In other words, it must be the vaccine passport alone, or it must be possible to use other methods, for example. to be able to enter sports events?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134628	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134629	I am just so glad that we are in a situation where we have started to talk about the possibilities that it gives us to roll the vaccines out at the rate we are doing, and that is why I would rather talk about a coronapas than a vaccine passport. We are in a situation now where the British variant is taking up a lot, and where we must be very careful not to open up too quickly. I very much agree with Mrs Mette Frederiksen on the other side, but when we come around on the other side, it should not be the case that what everyone cannot do is not allowed to happen. It must be the case that, for the benefit of all the events where people also make money from customers, open up to those who have either received a vaccine, have an overcoronal disease behind them or have just been tested.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134717	Torsten Gejl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134718	Thank you for your answer. That is an answer with which the Alternative is very much in agreement. Now I asked Mrs Mette Frederiksen if the government had a plan, if it is so that the Climate Council makes a very harsh criticism that the pace of our climate legislation in achieving our 70-percent objective is simply too slow. I almost thought I was told that it was a little naughty to ask about that at least it was not a card one could afford to draw. What's left thinking? Is the Left ready to turn up some ambition if it turns out that all the green organisations plus the Climate Council believe that things are going too slowly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134750	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134751	In general, I think we should turn our ambitions up. That is also what we are involved in when we are discussing green tax reform. And that's why I'm saying this must and must be market driven. It must be the case that it is the market that drives the green transition that we get the business community involved in this and that from here we concentrate on setting the framework for how to run a responsible business. So, the companies are way ahead of us already, so let us now try to catch up with them so that we have some higher ambitions in this area. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134825	Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. All brief remarks are given. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119134848	Thank you for that, President. At this third party leader's debate this is a special form of debate, but it is very good that we have them. I will talk a little about corona, and then I will talk a little about the right, which are the two issues that I think are the most important to address. In relation to the corona, it is absolutely necessary that we get through all of this, especially in relation to the elderly at risk. We have a dozen times confirmed each other in that. But it is also important, even when there is limited time, that there is room for discussion and room to air the differences we must have with regard to the management of corona. There is no doubt that when we look at the restrictions that exist, we will have to be able to have a proper debate, especially when they are extended, about whether the restrictions should simply be extended and we do not think that there is the way they are done or whether there are restrictions that really need to be dealt with differently. Too much information is being given to the public at a few hours' notice that the restrictions will now only be extended. We saw before Christmas that there were restrictions until 3 January. We saw before New Year that the restrictions were extended until 17 January. And we saw four days before 17 January, last Wednesday, that the restrictions were extended until 7 February. After all, no one believes that the restrictions will be gone on 7 February. So we in the Danish People's Party think that, on the one hand, in relation to the content of the restrictions, and, on the other hand, in relation to the warning, there must be another way of tackling it, which will allow people and, in particular, small self-employed people to act in this area, but it may also be people in the field of education who should also be better able to plan the work. When we look at the Corona case and have a party leader debate today, it is also natural to get around the mink case, especially in relation to mink substitutes. The Prime Minister, who now sits here as party leader, said last Sunday on TV2 that she hoped that the negotiations on compensation had ended last week. But we haven't finished them yet, and there are some people out there who have actually closed their jobs and are waiting for this compensation that they are going to have. I also think that this question is quite natural for us to raise in such a party leader debate as we have today. The second major issue that I think it is natural to address is, of course, the question of the right of impeachment, where a large majority of the Folketing has now indicated that it wants an impeachment against former Minister Inger Løjberg. It is only the sixth impeachment case, and it is, of course, the heaviest guardian, which I have already mentioned during the debate, which one can take up with a minister or a former minister. We think it is important to observe some proportion here. We think it is important to go in and look at what the Danish Parliament has established about impeachment cases, to look at previous cases which have not been raised at the court of law, and to see whether they really give an indication that we are taking too heavy a shot at Inger Løjberg. We think so. That is why we are putting forward a proposal here in the Danish Parliament to have earlier cases buried legally, including those which have not led to impeachment, in order to find out if you do not really lower the bar when you raise an impeachment case when you raise an impeachment case against Inger Løjberg. There must be equality before the law, but it is not equality before the law if, in cases of similar seriousness, you have not raised an impeachment case that you do so here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119135204	Thank you. It's not like you have to, and Mrs. Mette Frederiksen does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119135214	Yes, I do. There are so many political discussions that rarely bring anything with them, because everyone has written their speech papers before and this is a little noise and noise, but I really want to address the dilemma that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl travels and which is until now, when we have imposed restrictions here over the winter, and also when they have been extended, it is after all on the basis of recommendations and recommendations from the work going on around the authorities, and then we have a turn with each other politically, and then they run. Often it is the case that the authorities need to know the development of the epidemic, right up to the decision-making stage, and also often work with a short perspective, because it is biology that we work with. But at the same time I recognize the need for all people to be able to plan, because it is so difficult a situation, so I would really just like to ask the Danish People's Party: If we cannot get the authorities' long-term recommendation because it is biology, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl saw that we have to make a political decision on, for example, a longer decommissioning?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119135323	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119135325	It's easy to do that. In concrete terms, we are told that January and February are probably the hardest months we have to go through in relation to the epidemic, and at the same time we are told that decisions can only be taken on restrictions for a small subperiod of the two months, and I think that is what most people seem strange. If we really have, and this is also from a health professional's point of view, grounds for saying that February may be the time when this mutation, B.1.1.7, takes over and presents the greatest challenges in terms of infection rates, that is, if you can already see that this may be the scenario in February, why can it be that you can only take a position on restrictions until 17 January and now on 7 February?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119135407	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119135408	Okay, but I think that is a discussion we should continue, because I fully recognise the dilemma: the need for companies, post-schools and families to be able to plan. It is not certain that we would then be able to organise it in exactly the same way as usual, but I think that is an interesting discussion. Then I just remembered, when we were sitting here next to each other before that mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and I performed a long time ago at such a major agricultural meeting that was a long time ago; it was before the election and had a really good discussion with many Jutlandian farmers that night, and we also got incredibly good food. After all, we are going to be negotiating agriculture here during the year, and it will be really, really difficult, really difficult and I would just like to hear if the Danish People's Party is going to join the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119135452	Here you go, Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119135453	The Danish People's Party does so. We think it is absolutely essential that at the table we also have a balanced view of how agriculture can get through that transformation. We are experiencing an agricultural industry that really wants to play, and then it is also important that they are taken in and listened to, so we look forward to being a part of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119135514	Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119135516	Thank you. I am so glad that in here the focus has been on the self-employed, the small businessmen, who are, after all, being discriminated against at the moment. Now I myself gave my answer to it before, and it may well be that I came to hints to such an assumption that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl agreed with me. Just for the record: do we agree that it is not possible for an independent person to receive DKK 23,000 while an employee receives DKK 30,000. In terms of wage compensation, but that there should be equality, and it is not 23,000 DKK.?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119135548	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119135549	Yes, we agree on that. After all, we hope that we also agree that when restrictions are extended, we need to look at the aid packages thoroughly. For what one might once have thought one could tolerate also in a situation where one had a hope that the restrictions could be relaxed, so one had a more normal daily life faster than that is perhaps something else when the restrictions are going to last longer. And there is also a special consideration that we need to address in here, in relation to very small self-employed people, who are therefore in a vulnerable situation. There has been a lot of focus on other groups, but now it is also time for the small self-employed to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119135630	Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119135631	Thank you. That's what I thought, but just for the record, I'd like it to be confirmed. Another issue that we discussed before is how to raise employment in the future; how do we ensure that more people get to work? In the Left, we have proposed that we increase the employment allowance. Does the Danish People's Party agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119135654	Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119135655	I mean, it's one of those tools that it's perfectly natural to get to grips with. What we are concerned with is, of course, that people who do not earn the greatest wages are given the opportunity to have a little more for themselves in the context of changes in our tax system. In any case, this is a discussion that we have often had and where Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen is not a second in doubt about where the Danish People's Party stands and who it is we see as the target group, who should also be able to make a little extra out of it. In relation to how it should be precisely linked, it can be done in different ways in an agreement on tax policy. We have also tried that in the past, and hopefully we will sit and do it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119135728	Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119135730	I would be happy to take part in that conversation if there is room for it, that is, how we do better to participate with our labour force and therefore also to get more out of it. But that's not what I wanted to ask. I'd like to put the question to Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl about this, that law is law and that law must be kept. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl himself laid up for it and we could not agree more with that in the Radical Left. That was something, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and his party made a lot of sense. They asked for a thorough investigation into the mink case. We've got that, too. We have also been involved in this. There is a broad majority. But I remember myself having been in a long series of consultations on this issue of the separation of young asylum couples, and there was not so much interest in having anything investigated. Is that something, sir? Kristian Thulesen Dahl regrets now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119135827	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119135832	No, I don't regret that. I think it is the case that when you administer the legislation as a minister, you have to stay within the rules, of course you have to. Then we can have a discussion from time to time about where the limit is when you move in some grey areas, and we have seen this particularly when it comes to international conventions, because then it has not been very safe where the limit went. We have been able to see that, after a few years, we have been able to do some things where we were told years ago that we could never do that within the same conventions. We can see different countries, including the Nordic countries, which have different practices in relation to, for example. This is about whether you separate married couples, where one is a child, or you don't do it, etc. It is also within the same convention. I think that is important. You have to look at that all the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119135915	Thank you. Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119135916	Yes, but in those years there were two Ombudsman reports that made clear that the law had been broken. Are there only the principles of the rule of law that apply when it is something that the Danish People's Party wants investigated?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119135928	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119135930	No, there is not, and I would have liked to say that we share our views, because there is also politics in this. And, of course, it is also about how we interpret a convention and its possibilities. However, it is true that once the Ombudsman has spoken, it speaks of course that there is something to be done about it, and you can have opinions on that, but we also assess the seriousness of a case. You can examine everything between heaven and earth if you want, and you don't. We are looking at something because there is a political majority to investigate it, and then there is something else that is not a political majority to investigate. Now there has been a situation in which a post-election inquiry has been carried out. There's been a commission. We have a result and then, as politicians, each of us, we must assess whether we think it can bear to raise an impeachment case. We do not think it is possible to raise an impeachment case against Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140010	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140013	I completely disagree with that. But I would like to ask questions about the other two things, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl started his speech on the subject of a better early warning system. Like Mrs Mette Frederiksen, I got a little curious about what it should be. How do we imagine that? Because I think it would be a great idea if we could give a warning of 3-4 months ahead. Now we don't know how the disease develops. We can see it with the Danish variant, but we do not know it with B.1.1.7 and we do not know it at all with the South African who has just come to Denmark, that is how it develops. Could Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl imagine that we now decided to say: Now we are shutting Denmark down to 1 April? It's really not polemical, because I actually think it's a good idea to make better alerts, but I just don't have the tool for it. Therefore, I would like to ask more about what Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl imagines himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140100	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140101	In other words, what we have been talking about is that, when restrictions are extended, we also have to go in and look at them in terms of content. Now we just have a bunch of restrictions that will be extended again. There could be some of the restrictions where they were said: they will apply for a longer time; we already know that now. And then there could be other restrictions that you think you can relax more quickly, and therefore they apply for a shorter time, that is, because you think you can relax them. But if you are in a situation in January saying that you do not believe that you are relaxing before, for example. At the earliest by the end of February, the restrictions should not be extended until 7 February, so people should sit there until 7 February and think whether they should open the store again the next day or not, and then perhaps at 3-4 days' notice they shouldn't be told that they really do not know that they will not.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140144	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140146	But then we go from the early warning system we have today, which is the health authorities' suggestion of how long things should be shut down, to a different assessment; for they are not geared to that. I am not, in fact, uninterested in that model, but I think we should at least be very clear as to what criteria we are setting for extending the warnings. At any rate, I think that something that is important is that it will not be some sort of political controversy or debate where we will then be very polarised, because I think that will undermine the Danes' support for continued decommissioning, and the force has been the health authorities. I have no further questions. I'm just really interested in knowing if we can do something better than what we're doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140228	Here you go, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140230	Well, I really appreciate that, too, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is. It could also be a regional reopening. It might also be that we said that it makes sense that you can reopen a clothing store in Tønder more quickly than you can at Strøget in Copenhagen. Well, there are different ways of doing that, and that's just what I think we should be able to discuss. There has been no room for this, I think, in the discussions we have had, because it will be the case that, two hours before the Prime Minister or other colleagues have to hold press meetings, we will be called to a briefing that these restrictions will now be extended. I asked for this last time, and I think the last time, too. What is the reason why this extension of restrictions only applies until 17 January and now until 7 February? What are the reasons for this? Why doesn't it apply to e.g. week 6 with and maybe in fact also a little of week 7, because there is a winter holiday for some people? But I don't really think I'm getting an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140314	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140316	This is not what I wanted to ask at all, but I have actually had the same wonder as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has, and in the Enhedslisten we have also pressed for the restrictions to be put a little longer, so that it was something easier to count on what was going on. But it is not true that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has not received an answer to his questions as to why the date is set where it is. And some of what is a little annoying, no, it was mildly said, but it is wrong to have discussions where one claims that one has not received an answer to questions when one has received it or that one says that one has not had access to reports to which one has been given access. It undermines the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140359	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140400	Well, Mrs. Pernille Skipper, we see that completely differently. Well, at the last meeting we had, because now we are having meetings where we are discussing with each other, I asked about this, and I also concluded myself that I did not think I had received an answer as to why it was called 7 February. So it's not something I've been trying to keep secret from each other in the discussions we've had with each other. And now I'm just saying this as DF's offer for something we think you should work with to deal with this in a different way. I didn't really do it to get into the closed negotiating room and start to exonerate someone from it, but I just have to say 'because I can only say what I did myself', that I asked this question, and afterwards I concluded that I didn't think I had received an answer as to why it was called 7 February, at least not a response to automatic reactions to the entire restriction palette.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140441	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140442	But it is true that we have not been given an answer as to why we do not look more at the restrictions. We can, as a majority, decide on that if we want to. But it is not true that there was no answer. A very clear answer was given by the Serum Institute, namely that it was because you had data up to 3 weeks ahead, and therefore you did not feel sure that you could recommend any longer restrictions on the data base you thought you had. That is an answer, and that is why it is wrong to say that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl did not get an answer and that undermines the discussion we have been having in an already very polarised debate. By the way, I agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Kristian Thulesen Dahl in that they should be set longer. But I think it is fundamental for the discussion we have, about such a violent crisis as our society is facing, so polarised a crisis we are facing as a society, that we, as politicians, should not be allowed to go around saying that there are questions that we have not been given an answer to when we have received an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140527	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140528	No, I think that Mrs Pernille Skipper is making some kind of distinction and an attempt at a completely unnecessary controversy. As I also said, the Prime Minister has been in press meetings and she has faced the rest of us and said that she expected these months, January and February, to be some of the hardest. We have a so-called English mutation, B.1.1.7 which everyone says will be the biggest challenge in February. And then you say that you certainly have no discussion at all that goes beyond three weeks. In other words, I have been a part of the discussion about this, which is also about the situation in February. And then I just ask quietly: could you imagine doing this in a way that takes more account of those people out in the real world who are actually going to live with these restrictions? Well, let's keep it there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140608	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140610	Thank you. Today, Denmark uses approx. 200 million kr. annually on aid to Palestine. In New Citizens we proposed, in the context of the police negotiations, to take that money and use it as part of the financing of the police. Unfortunately, it was poured down the board by the left, and perhaps we could have said so ourselves, because they seem to think that we should continue to send money to Palestinian self-government and the leaders who call other Muslims to fight against Jews. Well, then, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl agrees that it would be a very good idea for us to remove the aid that is being given today to Palestinian self-government?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140655	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140656	Yes, indeed, and I actually believe that sir. Søren Espersen, as our rapporteur in this area, has been very much ahead of the whole debate on the money that is being given. When the money is then not used to finance better police and more proximity to security in Denmark, we can of course use that money to finance other good things in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140716	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140717	Thank you for your answer. I'm really glad. I also hope that in future DF and New Citizens can work to put this on the agenda so that we can resolve these challenges. After all, it is absolutely pointless that we should use Danish tax dollars to finance the development of terrorism in the Middle East in reality. So I'm glad. Will DF also work with New Citizens to press for Denmark to move the Danish Embassy in Tel Aviv to Jerusalem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140749	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140750	Yes, well, we think it is important that we mark ourselves differently in the Middle East than we have done and in the conflict that exists. So it is clear that we want to look at that. I would say in general terms in relation to the funds we are using now, that is what Mrs Pernille Vermund had as a question in relation to the money we spend around the world, and here in relation to Palestinian self-government: that is, we think we should make far more demands than people can receive Danish taxpayers' money and also in relation to taking back their own citizens when they are expelled from Denmark etc. So we can say that we are putting force behind our words and forcing through the policy we hopefully also jointly stand for, in relation to who should be able to be in Denmark and who should be in their own home countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140830	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140832	Thank you very much, and thank you for your speech. In the last few weeks, several prominent DFs have been out to praise England's exit from the EU; this should be a model for daxit, we hear, where Denmark should also withdraw from the EU community, we can understand. To sum up briefly the consequences of brexit, it should be mentioned that it costs the equivalent of 26 times the British contribution to the European Union. Among other things: England has had to employ 50,000 customs officers, which is more than what is employed in the whole EU system. This is equivalent to 4 000 customs officers and a cost of 260 billion. kr., if you translate it into Danish conditions. Is this something that makes DF reconsider their opposition to the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140917	Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119140918	Well, it's funny about those money sizes, isn't it? Now we have just had a year to pay, as far as I know, 4.5 billion. kr. extra per year to the EU. There has not been so much debate on that. So they say: what would it cost if we did not have that connection exactly as we have it now? We have an ambition that Denmark should be a free country. Denmark is to be ruled by Danes here in the Danish Parliament. These are the decisions we make here in our own community that are crucial to how the Danish people evolve. Then, of course, we are influenced by the outside world and must cooperate with the outside world and be given as much free trade as possible, but basically we are in favour of democracy being exercised here and not in Brussels. For us, this is, in the first place, more a fight for freedom than an economic debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119141002	Then it's Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119141003	But if it is going to cost Denmark relatively as much as it has cost England to step out, that is at least billions of dollars to get out at all, plus that we are going to lose really, very much money on trade, which areas of society should that money be taken from?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119141022	Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119141023	I would very much like to see those figures, and we can have a long discussion on them, but I do not think that twice 30 seconds is enough. Well, for us, it's primarily about a freedom struggle, as I say. Denmark must be an independent country; it is in Denmark that we make our decisions. And it is clear that making a choice always has some consequences. There are also some opt-outs when you do that. But it is clear that these are the conditions we need to discuss how this can progress, and how can we resolve it in practice so that we can achieve it? I think it is an incredibly interesting deal that the British have got, and it seems to be better than the one many thought the British would get compared to brexit.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119141058	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. We have now reached the brief comments that were made. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. You know, it got really drunk when you were supposed to talk.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119141128	Sorry, that was a little funny; luckily we can have fun too. But it's really serious. I do not think I am the only one I am certainly not the only one who has been following events in the United States in recent weeks, and I look forward to, both with optimism, but indeed with some concern in the next 24 hours. It turned out that Trump could not be neglected; that he was as bad as one might fear and that it would be really dangerous when those who do not subscribe to the madness and racism were nevertheless tempted to give it the impetus in the belief that it could serve their own tactical goals. And then again, as usual, in Denmark we can praise ourselves happily that it is not so with us, and so have I, and so do I. Thank you to colleagues for being able to work together across the board. But we can't just say, "Well, good thing it's not us." For it can be; not tomorrow, but soon enough. Before the election, steps were always to be taken to the right, one more and one more and one more, and finally we ended up with expulsion lakes and sick children at the Travel Centre Soulsmark. It's such a divisive logic that I think got in many places for tactical reasons, and if it happens again, then we can always move to a worse version. That is why it is very important for us that there is a broad majority in favour of raising an impeachment case on the basis of the Instructor's Commission, so that we are united in calling for the rule of law. So thank you to all of you parties who have put you behind that we can settle the matter at the eleventh hour. But it's just not done with it. In fact, I fear that it has only just begun, at least in some places. Because you cannot be a spectator of the demise of democracy. Either you say no, or your silence becomes implied acceptance. It is clear after the attack on Congress in the United States, and it could have ended much worse. And we still don't know what's growing out of the American ashes if it's gonna be healing, as we hope, or if there's gonna be more of this hell. But we know that the division that we can clearly see is tearing the United States in half, is also being cultivated here, including here, and that is a reflection that we should all have. There are parties that do not want an impeachment because it may not serve their party political interests; which have a policy that will targetly take rights from citizens. If we do not want to join the European Union, then we have fewer rights as citizens. If we leave conventions, it also means that rights are taken from people. So what do we do? We have to report back to those who are making violence on the rule of law, regardless of everything else that we otherwise disagree on. And it will require more cooperation between many of us • no less so that we can solve the challenges together. I hope that we will be able to debate and learn more about this today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119141507	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119141510	I would like to ask Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen a little about what we still have in front of us in the climate area. For we have together chosen, and fortunately in cooperation with many other good colleagues, that we will be one of the most ambitious countries in the area of climate change, and we have to say we have got off to a good start and have already made very good decisions. I do not want to hide the fact that, as Prime Minister, I am deeply concerned that, if the wrong climate policy is followed, it may go amber-eyed wrong, that ordinary people lose the opportunity to make their everyday lives hang together, because they cannot transport themselves because their business is shutting down or because the immediate burden of the necessary climate change is socially distorted. So I just wanted to hear something here. When we come to the next decisions, I really hope we agree that the social balance is as important as climate ambitions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119141607	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119141608	I think that is a very good question, and I think it also reveals that if we like to put that panic feeling that if we do too much, then things can go wrong, first, then we will not act in time. On the other hand, I also agree that it may also be the other way, i.e. that democracy is not good enough and that we can get anti-democratics out of it if we just scream that we do not solve it in here. We need to take steps forward. But I do believe that we can both do it in balance and deliver. But it cannot be the case that we can say to everyone that the green transition is not something they are going to notice and that a good solution will come in 2029. This cannot be the case, because then we will not get to the finish line.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119141658	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119141659	No, but I don't advocate for either. Because we have already taken very, very important decisions, and we must continue to do so. So I don't advocate a good solution in 2029... we are now creating solutions along the way... and I don't advocate that we stand up as politicians and say that it has no consequences. But what I advocate is that we do it in the Danish way, so that we do not shut down companies, that we do not weaken competitiveness, that people do not get fired because of this, or that the distortion between country and city does not increase, or that the single mother, who may not have a huge economy, is hit much harder than all possible others. It was the commitment that we should look after all these balances, even if we are climate-ambitious.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119141741	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119141743	Well, I think it's being set up as a counterposition. But I agree with the Prime Minister that we have to do this with it can't be done with it. We have to do this by bringing the citizens together. We have, for example. in the Radical Left set up a green generation council in order not to give up those opposite positions, which are sometimes so constructed. I do not think that those who live in the countryside will not the climate well. They do want it to be so that agriculture does not want a climate, so that you have a land to cultivate, also in the future. On the other hand, it must be we who set the course and lead the way and commit us to making the decisions so that we reach the goal. And it can't wait till the last minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119141825	Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119141827	Thank you. I actually believe that the question from the Prime Minister to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen could be summed up as follows: Are you red before you are green? And I'm glad the answer was no. Another place where I can trace a discrepancy between the support party and the current government is in relation to the reduced supply of labour. Now, of course, we have reduced employment by more than 10,000 people, and now we must not lay down any other person's tax freeze or understanding paper or anything like that, but I understand that the understanding paper has said that it does not want to do so. We do not want to reduce the supply of labour. So what will Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen demand of action to remedy this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119141916	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119141917	That's correct. We're not that many colors. We have lots of color on, usually we try to put rainbows on everything, but it's true that it's not red before green. This is about green action, and we are doing this together with all those who can help deliver it, hopefully Mr. The party of Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. In the same way, it is true, moreover, when it comes to getting enough people in the workforce to deliver everything we want in the future, to invest precisely in education and qualification, which is also part of what the Prime Minister is proposing that we should be able to do. So it takes the measures that will secure enough people in the workforce. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142000	Here you go, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142003	Thanks for that, and I'm sorry, I got around too. Yes, but words often weigh a little less than action, and I can also read the Stock Exchange today, and I am happy about that. But what are the specific initiatives that the Radical Left believes should be put on the table here? Well, I guess you have a plan for raising employment by at least this 10,000. We would like it to be many more.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142035	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142036	I agree with that, and precisely for this reason the call for a 2030 plan, where we really set out our ambitions for what we want, and that requires much more. Both in our draft budget and elsewhere, we have put forward several proposals on how to bring more people into the workforce. I am not really so dogmatic, as long as it can be counted, as long as it works, as long as it is structural employment that ensures that we can count on it so that we can deliver on everything we want to invest in. It could be tax, it could be pension set-off, it could be a number of other areas we are looking at so that we get more people in the workforce.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142111	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142112	Thank you. It was a Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen on the high horse. So, in this speech by the rapporteur, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen was told that those who do not vote for an impeachment case against Inger Løjberg do not support the rule of law. That's how you could sum up the speech. That's crazy. Is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen absolutely sure that it can stand for a test in relation to case law, that is, previous cases against ministers, where it has not led to impeachment? Will it not be possible, in all situations, for those who, as ministers, have in some way violated the law in the past and have not been brought before an impeachment, to still stand for the rule of law, even if they did not raise an impeachment?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142153	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142155	I didn't say that, as sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl mentioned, but I hope that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl stands behind the rule of law, and I think it is a certain hypocrisy when it is said that law is law and law must be kept, and that thorough investigations and a commission should be set up in the mink case, but not in a case where it has been proven that the law has been broken and where there are so many statements from both the Ombudsman and the Instructor's Commission and a recommendation from the independent lawyers that the Folketing asked to take a position. It is clear that only the right to justice can judge.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142234	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142235	Well, now you can evaluate situations and the degree of seriousness differently. I remember a minister who made what was called a distress lie to the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights a deliberate lie to the Folketing. That didn't lead to impeachment. I remember a minister who was so much blamed by the Folketing for having violated the stateless Convention and did not intervene in relation to the case law that was in it, even if it should have been acted upon. That didn't lead to any impeachment. We are putting forward a motion for a resolution here in the Danish Parliament that we should have all these earlier cases buried and find out what the case law really is, not only for when we raise impeachment cases, but also for when we do not. Will the Radical Left support it in order to anticipate any suspicion that it is really the Radical Left that is out there in some hypocrisy?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142320	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142321	I would like to look at that very carefully. I think that the Danish People's Party has put forward some excellent proposals, also to look at the question of a constitutional court and other issues in this Chamber, and it is precisely about the fact that in some areas we should be able to try to separate where we disagree politically and what is basically about the rule of law. For, of course, we have different political assessments of this, but what is special about this case is that it ran for so many years and that there was an opportunity to investigate that there was an opportunity to draw conclusions, but there was no majority in favour of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142400	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142403	Thank you. At the opening of the Folketing, of course, I also had to acknowledge that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen had not had a long period of preparation as leader of the Radical Left it was the day before it changed, I think. But I asked a question at the time, and it was about the job offer and these 9,000, and we spoke Arnepension etc. And then I asked: if not now, will it be the Finance Act at the latest that the Radicals will demand that it be dealt with? And that's where I got the answer yes. It did not end like this, and there may be many good reasons for this. Then I would just like to hear: is there going to be a day when the Radical Left says to the Prime Minister: 'Now I have to hear no doubt in the reply there in October when I asked about it. Is that how it's headed there, or how?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142457	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142458	Well, I actually thought it was handled. For what is clear now is that initiatives will be taken before the consequences of this reform on previous pensions come into force, so that the people who are being withdrawn are at least replaced. There just started a concert back here, and I had to find out if it was the sound system. But I do agree with Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen and Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr So this includes an invitation to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen's party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142538	I don't think it was personal! Søren Pape Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142541	No, but now they got quiet! I am quite sure that it is about making a big plan and so on. could be really interesting to work with. But I'm worried, as Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen mentioned when looking at the understanding paper and the agreement that has been made here. That is not my problem, of course, but I do take an interest in it anyway: how will it ever succeed? Is it something about graduation rates, and could you look at SU and many other things? And then I could see that some people here to the right of me would probably go crazy if that happens. So how is this gonna work?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142624	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142625	Well, this is Søren Pape Poulsen. Hopefully, you are preoccupied with Denmark's future and opportunities. So I hope that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen and his party will join us, like so many other parties, because I agree: we will probably not achieve our goal by looking to the left of us in such a political way. And that's why I'm hoping we can get together broadly to secure this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142655	The noise from the Palace Square may have been due to the fact that there was so much direct talk! But apart from that, it is now Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142701	Thank you. I'd like to follow up on where Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen began and Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen continued, namely by economic policy. For the Radical Left in the past, we have been blowing up and calling for an increase in the supply of labour, and I assume that the Radical Left sees itself as a responsible financial support party, perhaps even as a bulwark against the socialism which characterizes two other support parties to the government. Nevertheless, it has been possible to support two years in a row financial laws which have reduced the supply of labour. It is even financial laws that make all income groups poorer. Where does the Radical Left stand in relation to the blood-red financial laws?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142744	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142745	I do not recall that there were initiatives in this Finance Act, but it is true that initiatives have been taken that have withdrawn people from the workforce, such as early retirement, to which other parties have contributed. And it is true that initiatives must be taken to counter this before they are pulled out of the workforce, and hopefully we can take initiatives for far more than that, so that we can have more opportunities. That is what ensures that we can invest in welfare, in schools and in care for the elderly, also in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142818	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142819	Thank you. In the party leader's speech much was said about dissension. I think this is a place where, after all, we agree across political divisions and political parties, so I am pleased to hear that. However, I would like to ask the party leader how the fact that people have voted for higher benefits for unemployed foreigners rhymes with the fact that they want more people to work. In other words, does the party leader believe that more or less unemployed foreign women are going to work, for example, by increasing benefits to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142853	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142854	I am glad about that, because what I have to say proves to some others who sometimes think that everything can be a little dogmatic, that it is not the case that we are sitting and measuring on every decimal place. I do not think that making people quite poor and without opportunities to bite, for example. in the labour market, that is, if you do not have the language and the opportunities for other things, help something, and that is not how we count. We take a position on this, also very concrete and human.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142929	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119142930	Thank you. The radical party leader was past the impeachment case against Inger Løbberg in his speech and said that there are parties that do not want an impeachment because it does not serve their political interests, as I heard it. That concern shares the alternative. We think it has been an unsightly process and an unworthy process, and we are not sure that it should be us here in the Folketing who have to decide whether a colleague should be brought before an impeachment. We'd rather have it on a legal basis. Will the Radicals perhaps be involved in examining whether we could introduce a constitutional court that could deal with such things instead of doing so here in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119143008	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119143011	Yes, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119143017	Thank you for your answer. Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119143018	Thank you so much. I know it requires a change in the constitution. It takes a lot of effort, but I can just point out why it is so important. We sat on the Executive Committee and discussed this matter while the confidential things we discussed were sent to News. There's a big leak around it, so I think that's another reason why we should get it out of our league.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119143039	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119143041	I agree, and that is my party's policy and has been so for many years. As the rapporteur also says, it cannot be fixed, but that is why the debate must be taken anyway. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119143054	Thank you to the radical party leader. There are no more brief comments. The next party leader comes from the Socialist People's Party, and this is Mrs Pia Olesen Dyhr and she will be coming in a moment to a full-blown speaking chair, which will probably have to be repainted after the summer break. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119143126	Contact numbers, infection detection, quarantine, home school and protective equipment when we were here in Parliament about a year ago and also had a party leader debate, I do not think that very many of us took those words in our mouths. Today they have become part of our everyday language. Denmark and the world as we know it have changed. We have done well in Denmark. We've been working together. It's good for Denmark. "Come on, let's complain," says TV-2's song about the Danish people's soul. But frankly, I think you hear very little hernia. Those kids who should have had fun with their friends during breaks, drank beer on Fridays and kissed on Saturdays. The nurses take extra shifts and have home school in the evenings without fucking around. The teaching staff show up every morning with a smile. Parents have converted to a daily life where they are both schoolteachers, cleaning services, canteen ladies, IT experts and full-time workers. There are some for whom community mind is a city in Dubai. But the vast majority do their duty and many want to be there for the community because they know that the community is there for them when they need it. We asked the weakest to be the strong, and we also made sure that as a society we stood together and made each other strong. With the aid packages, we held hands under many companies and jobs. We give a helping hand to the sick, unemployed and students, and we help the small self-employed. We stand together when it comes to the whole Parliament. And we have to keep that in mind when we start opening up. We have to remember that everyone has to go. We asked the weak to be the strong, and afterwards we must ask the strong to help the weak out of the crisis, so that there will be jobs for everyone, education for everyone, good welfare for everyone, so that we can catch up with some of the lost and make sure that they are not left on the edge of the labour market or at the bottom of society with the crisis bill. Unfortunately, we have seen that before. We should not throw away the crisis consciousness completely. The climate crisis has not been paused simply because we have a corona crisis, and I do not want to hide the fact that I am not satisfied with what we have achieved so far. There's a lot to catch up on. We need to make strong demands on agriculture. It will be the great task of the year, at the end of Corona, to get climate policy back on track. We owe this to young people who have not kissed quite as much or drunk quite as many beers who are currently meeting with their friends over Skype and abandoning the youth life they had otherwise been looking forward to, precisely so that their grandparents will not be the victims of the current crisis. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119143435	Thank you to the party leader. The first brief remark is from Mrs Mette Frederiksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119143439	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for an incredible summing-up of the year that has passed, and thus also an emphasis on the strength of Denmark, because that is what we have seen over the last almost entire year that has passed, and that is also one of the main reasons why we have, after all, managed so well through this historic crisis. So thank you very much for the words, and also thank you for emphasising that complaining and criticism are of course part of dealing with a crisis, but that cooperation and assembly are certainly even more important. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr then briefly mentions agriculture. I agree that we need to start discussing agriculture in relation to climate, but I also hope that SF will remember that very, very many Danes are employed because of agriculture, and that it is also an important part of the Danish identity that we can actually feed ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119143529	Thank you. Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119143530	I fully agree that Danish agriculture must of course also be there, even if we have to make climate policy. Danish agriculture is in fact characterised by the fact that when we have introduced actually quite tough hygiene requirements, quite tough environmental requirements through the ages, Danish agriculture has been involved in the transition and is therefore among the world elite. In fact, it is the same in the climate field, and therefore I also welcome the fact that Danish agriculture itself has joined the fight and said that they believe that they can actually help to raise part of the climate challenge that we face. And I think that is absolutely crucial for achieving our climate target. And it should be borne in mind that agriculture has so far not contributed very much to CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119143611	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119143612	May I put the words in such a way that we must, of course, be ambitious in terms of the climate and Danish agriculture and the contribution of Danish agriculture to the 70-percent objective, but that we must do so in such a way that we do not place an unnecessary burden on agriculture in terms of jobs and their ability to develop and maintain production in Denmark. Because if we do this in the wrong way, we risk that agricultural production will shut down here and then start somewhere else where the climate load is higher and where the environmental impact is certainly also much, much higher than it is today in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119143648	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119143650	I am fully aware of the leakage effect. That's it, too, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen himself said in his reply that we should not risk farming moving out of Denmark. I don't disagree with that. It is always the balancing process that we have to go, but we also have to dare to regulate an agriculture so that it develops. After all, Danish agriculture itself has come up with a vision for the climate towards 2030. Danish agriculture must deliver reductions. We must, of course, let this happen to a degree where they can keep up with farmland, but when it comes to taking out agricultural land, we can actually move a great deal, and there we can use the EU's agricultural aid so that it does not burden the Danish accounts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119143726	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119143728	Thank you. I would really like to continue a little along the same lines, because this leak effect is something that worries me quite a lot, and I am actually happy to hear this agreement with the Prime Minister about it. Does Mrs Pia Olsen recognise Dyhr that there are therefore some mechanisms, it is harder to screw on the cow to make a cow burp a little less by giving it seaweed, but in addition, there are not the great tools. Does SF recognise that the tools you can use in other areas where we produce things in Denmark cannot be used in the same way in agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119143805	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119143806	So, Danish Agriculture includes some of the most knowledge-intensive companies in Denmark. That is what is so interesting when we sometimes have the debate in the Folketing, because there are some people who think that it is a farm with some animals that you then enjoy a little. Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Ellemann-Jensen on his excellent report. Right now, they're researching, among other things. In what kind of grass do the cows have to be given in order to reduce methane gas emissions from them, that is, the farts of the cows, because that is something we do not bypass. But you can reduce the climate load, and you will be able to do so significantly. We also know that we can make farm accounts, land can be taken, and then there is the question of pyrolysis, which can of course be the great solution for agriculture and which we have decided together to do something about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119143854	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119143855	Yes. We fully agree that there are a lot of exciting things on the drawing board and that grass protein has huge potential, and precision farming and everything else. I've been the food minister in this country, so I know that. But that's not where we are now. Does the SF recognise that this is not where we are now and that we need to start from the reality of agriculture out there instead of a reality that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and myself hope will come someday?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119143920	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119143921	I relate to the reality in which I live. I think I have proved this over and over again in the way we are negotiating, also in the context of other climate agreements that we have concluded, but I have to say quite clearly, and there should be no doubt that agriculture must also contribute. One of the things we can contribute to agriculture is to set aside agricultural land. Already in 2021, and this is funny enough the year we are in right now, the EU's agricultural aid can be used to set aside land. We can start with that. In addition, we will have the climate accounts shortly, and then we will have to make sure that they are also part of it. And the Left agreed with SF that this is also where to talk about CO2 via the use of CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144002	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144005	Thank you. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, we made the agreement on previous pensions together in the autumn, and in connection with this we also had a discussion on a more relaxed set-off for pensioners. We could not agree on the funding, and that is why, unfortunately, it did not work out, but the SF was so keen that it should happen that, in its clash of DFs, it was said that it could not succeed, that it would be resolved in the financial law negotiations. That was not resolved, so my question here today is quite silent only: why was it not resolved in the context of the financial law negotiations, and who was it in the negotiating room that blocked the solution that the SF wanted there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144044	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144045	I remember the Arne negotiations because I was sitting at the negotiating table in the Ministry of Employment together with, among others, the Minister for Employment. Mrs. Pernille Skipper and sometimes Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl when we negotiated the question about Arne. I thought it was a good deal. I would have liked it to have also included an agreement that people on early retirement should not be set off in the way they do today, if their partner has some higher income then you are set off, and that seems unreasonable to me. We would have liked to have seen that agreement at the negotiating table, and I do not think that was a secret to Mr Beazley. Kristian Thulesen Dahl or Mrs Pernille Skipper, and we also tried to do so in the financial negotiations. We have not come to the end of it, but we still think it is absolutely crucial that it only requires a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144127	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144128	Well, I knew all that, because it was a record of the meetings on the previous pension, and that is why I brought the question to the financial law negotiations, because I do not know anything about them. I did not sit at that table, and therefore I have to ask some of those who were there what did not get there. For this was a high priority issue, we could understand, from the SF, that is, it was really high priority. I think that the SF's rapporteur was quite prepared to say that it was so frustrating that it had not been resolved and that now it had to be resolved in the budget negotiations. Then it wasn't solved, and then I just ask, why not? Well, who really prevented the SF from getting through with this demand, which was really one of the top priorities, as we had to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144207	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144208	But it would have been beautiful if we had solved it in the negotiations on Arne. And the reason I mention it over and over again is that when we were negotiating about Arne, it was the SF who fought, and so alone, to remove this set-off. That is why I have to say that we also did so in the context of the financial bill debate, and we will also do so when we have the discussion, and I can hear that the Radical Left has already announced it, about labour supply. I believe that this is something that can create 900 structural jobs. And besides, it's only fair to abolish this kind of set-off.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144246	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144249	Thank you. After all, I think that both local and national politics actually recognise SF as some who care that there must also be life and activity in the smaller communities, that one should be able to have a choice and that parents should be able to give their children the best opportunities in the world. So what I have to ask is: why is this ideological crusade that this government, with its support parties, has led towards private kindergartens, so important to the SF? Why is it so important that they just can't be there? Yes, they can, but they must not have a surplus they can pull out. Why has it been said that we must now do everything we can to make it difficult for parents in a village to make a private kindergarten? 'Cause it was horrible if they had to do a private kindergarten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144335	Thank you. Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144336	SF won't mind if you do a free kindergarten or a private kindergarten. Everyone has to. I hope, then, that they make educational demands and all sorts of other things for the sake of children. We have no problem with that. But if Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen is serious, sir. Marcus Knuth has written on social media that we want to ban them and that we have decided to ban them, that is wrong. I know that in these Trump times we can write everything on social media, but I'm getting a little tired of it. Because it's wrong. What we are saying is that we must not withdraw money. You can easily create a private company, but you should not make money on our children; you should not make profit on our children.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144412	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144414	It is also a de facto ban. So, if you make an institution and you can do it so well that people choose it and then you can drive it so well that you can make a profit, why can't you pull it out? Could you imagine now I'm saying something crazy that they might have done things in a more efficient way, that they didn't sit at meetings all the time, that they have fewer sick days, or that they took some other initiatives that made the kindergarten as good or better than for example. the municipal, located in the neighbouring city, and that they were just able to make profits too? Why is it so horrible? Why is that so bad? Isn't this about quality?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144452	Thank you. Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144453	So many prejudices Søren Pape Poulsen has about our municipal educators simply prejudice that they are not effective and that they do not work quickly. I simply do not agree with that. First of all, they do a really nice, great job out there in our day care institutions. Whether they're municipal, free or private, I kind of acknowledge. After all, the reason we are concerned about withdrawing money from our private day care centres is that we are seeing it lower the quality of our children. Why do we need government crowns for that? If you make it a whole bubble of private people, it's something quite different, but putting state crowns and municipal crowns into a private kindergarten that a private person can then go out is quite wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144537	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144548	I'd like to follow up on where Mr. Søren Pape ended. The Socialist People's Party has for several years fought hard for minimum standards in the country's day institutions, and when it was adopted it was sold as such a giant for as much as 15%. of the 2.9 million kr., which is allocated to more educational staff, may end up going to administrative expenses. What does Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144619	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144621	I very much disagree with that. I do not think that the money should be spent on administration. This is a discussion that we have had both with KL and with the Ministry of Finance. SF believes that all the money should be spent on adults in our day care institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144633	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144634	It could be that it happened in private day care institutions. That's why it seems strange to me that you're like Mr. Knox. Søren Pape Poulsen says de facto makes it almost impossible to run private day care institutions. But let it go. It is estimated that teachers in Denmark use only approx. 51 per cent. of their working time with the children. The rest of the time is spent on administration and meetings. That's a lot. The party leader said earlier that there was no reason to believe that it was not solved well enough in the public sector, but the party leader really believes that 51 per cent. of the time with the kids is good enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144713	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144714	No, I don't think it should be used with the kids. What I think is so amazing about these free municipalities that we have set in motion with the government and certain parties here in the Danish Parliament is that we can then examine what it is that we can cut out in our day institutions. For all the time I have been sitting in the Folketing, and it is now a while, all governments have stood up here saying that you want less bureaucracy and less administration and you want more hours with the citizen or with the child or whatever it is. Now we are testing it, and that is why these free municipalities are so excellent, because then we can learn from their experiences and perhaps get rid of some of the administration. Because our children deserve better.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144754	Thank you. In this way, it became Mr. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144757	Thank you. First, I have a critical question and then a question which recognises SF's efforts in an important area. During the Finance Law debate in October, Pia Olsen Dyhr said that no residents of ghettos have been thrown out of their homes and have ended up homeless because of the ghetto package last time she had checked. However, it has come to light that residents from Mjølnerparken in Copenhagen were referred to housing that was significantly more expensive than what they lived in as much as DKK 12,000. per month. My question is: does the party leader think that is fair? And would the SF ultimately have voted in favour of the ghetto package if it had been through the Folketing today?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144833	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144835	Yes, SF would have voted for the ghetto package if it came through the Folketing today. For what is absolutely crucial in the ghetto package is that we have seen that changes have taken place in the non-profit housing areas. The majority of these areas have come out of the ghetto list because we have made a great deal of initiatives that have ensured that they have become mixed residential areas. That's what the kids who live there deserve. It really deserves the whole society that is, that is, that we meet across the board. That is where our cohesion is being created. Are there any challenges and problems? Yes, there is. I recognize that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144910	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144911	Thank you. The second question is about mutual dependents, of which SF is also working hard to remove some. The leader of the party mentions that, in the context of the negotiations on labour supply, we may be able to get it back into play, because the abolition of mutual dependants will increase the supply of labour. Does the party leader also see that we may in fact be able to save a lot of money in relation to loneliness, that we can save money on home care, that we can save money on homelessness, and that we can, in fact, get something that looks like a good business out of abolishing mutual dependants?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144950	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119144951	Yes, first of all, I think that we should abolish it because it is an injustice, that is, a fundamental injustice. I can see that nurses, sosu assistants and sosu helpers are currently working more because of corona. They've been asked to come into the hospital more, and then their husbands are further set off in retirement because of this stupid rule. When I call it stupid and I don't often use such words, it's simply because it's crazy and it's unfair, and that's why I think we should basically abolish it. We keep fighting for that, and I'm glad we have an ally in the alternative. I know we have that in the Enhedslisten. So at some point, hopefully, we'll get to the finish line.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119145031	Thank you to the party leader of the SF, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. The next party leader comes from the Enhedslisten, and this is Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119145049	The Corona crisis has really stuck in our society now, I think it has to be said, and unfortunately we are facing not only a health crisis, but also an economic crisis in which thousands have lost their jobs, and small self-employed people will have to turn the key to their life's work for the last time, and this crisis, like many others before, hits like everyone else before. Noise from outside First Vice-President It's hard to hear, but I can't reach the microphones, so I'm gonna take the liberty of correcting the speech paper so you can get closer to the microphone. ) Thank you very much. Where did I come from? Crisis hits badly, because while those who have some of the highest salaries, as a rule, have been able to sit at home behind the screen without being exposed to infection, it is the lowest paid who have been on the front. This applies to the care and health sector, as is the case with the cashier, the driver and the cleaning assistant in the private sector. These are often some of the people who already have the most grueling jobs and the smallest savings, and who have been at the forefront when they have been handed out light notes, which are also those who are at the front now when the infection hits. Therefore, I must say that we are by no means in the same boat. We may be drifting around the same sea as the UN Secretary-General said, but there are some who sit on a luxury yacht while others are stuck in driftwood. That is why I think it is important to make it clear that the time is not for a headless focus on an increase in the number of jobs • another word for an extended unemployment queue; the time is to focus on creating real jobs and on improving the social safety net, which is to hold hands under both the small self-employed and those who get a light-off note. We must reduce the inequality, as the Prime Minister will remember in the paper of understanding. Actually, I would have spent my time on something else today. I would like to spend my time on the 25 children sitting in two camps in Syria, because they are being abandoned by all of us. They are punished for the actions of their parents. I have praised the Prime Minister very many times for his children's vision, for the excuse for the godhavn boys and for the experimental children from Greenland, for the view that the Prime Minister has on children as individuals who have their own rights and which we as a society have an obligation to take care of. However, that view does not seem to apply to the 25 children sitting in Syria right now. This is a situation that parents have created and that parents have to take responsibility for... government ministers say over and over again... but we would never send children to serve in prison because their parents were robbers or murderers, and that was a situation they had created. We would never let a child stay in a home with violence or abuse or where there was no food, water and heat because it was a situation that the parents had created. So as a society, we help children when they are exposed to the mistakes and stupidities of parents. We have a duty to do so. Diplomatic forces are being used to bring the offenders home from all kinds of places in the world because they are Danish citizens, but that right does not apply to the children and they are harmed, they lack food, heat, water and care. Hundreds of children have already died in the camps. There is at least one 4-year-old Danish girl with a 4 year-old with a ptsd! There is no word for what a failure it is to let children take the punishment for their parents' actions. It's cold, it's calculating, it's cynical, it's wrong. We need to get the children home from Syria now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119145514	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. As far as I can see, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the first to ask for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119145524	Thank you. I think there is one thing that is forgotten in the list of children belonging to people who have left Denmark and declared their loyalty to the caliphate and the Islamic State, namely that if, as the Enhedslisten suggests, those children are taken to Denmark, then their mothers will follow with them, and that is to say a group of adult people who have turned their backs on Denmark with completely open eyes, to freedom, to democracy and, for some, to directly contribute to undermining our democratic future and our security. It was not part of the speech at all, and I suppose it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119145607	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119145608	That is absolutely right. But what was included in the speech was that those children are being punished right now for the actions of their parents, and none of the children have done what the Prime Minister lists. It is the actions of the parents, and it is the children who are being punished for it. So, I do not know how many places are sitting right now in Danish diplomats trying to negotiate Danish citizens' homes that have done everything possible. We are negotiating drug smugglers and murderers safely from elsewhere in the world, and we are spending economics and diplomatic resources on it because they are Danish citizens. They have to come home and have their punishment and their time of service under proper conditions. Why doesn't this apply to these people?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119145649	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119145650	In my view, this is treason when, as an adult, one goes to Syria, declares its support for the Islamic State, goes into direct armed conflict, what the caliphate did, against the whole democratic world, and moreover supports a thinking that does not belong in Denmark. It's treason. That is why I am pleased that the Thorning government took the initiative to introduce treason in this respect, which was followed up by the bourgeois government afterwards, and that we have now administratively renounced the citizenship of a group of citizens who have joined the caliphate and the Islamic State. That's the headache in this. It is not, I think, that many of us did not want to help the children who have been victims in this, but that there is a group of women who have supported the Islamic State. And it may be that they are still doing so, by the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119145745	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119145746	Well, there's a paragraph for what's called treason. Then get them home and have them punished for it under the Danish penal code. There are people who have gone out into the world and committed drug crime; we would never let a child accompany a woman into a Mexican prison and say it was her responsibility. We are actually using diplomatic forces to get them home and punished under Danish conditions. We have always done so. This is where an exception is made, and it is the children who are being punished. There is no other case in which the cynical way would just say: the children must suffer from the actions of their parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119145826	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119145829	Thank you. I would just like to make a small change of subject. I hope the rapporteur will forgive that for some of the things the rapporteur mentioned earlier, this was the fight against inequality, and there are many ways of doing that, and the current government seems to be doing it by making all the people in this country poorer. That's one way to do it. The government's own response to the economic policy being pursued is that all income groups in Denmark become poorer by government policy. Does Mrs Pernille Skipper think that this is a wise way of pursuing economic policy, in other words to ensure that we all become poorer and thus less afford the welfare that I hear Mrs Pernille Skipper praise elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119145912	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119145913	I'm not sure what those calculations are, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen refers to, and I cannot hear Mr Ellemann-Jensen either. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen speaks in this way in the Chamber, but I would very much like to reply to that. Basically, I think that it is the right economic policy that is being pursued, where we are trying to invest our way out of the crisis, to keep our hands on both companies and employees who are losing their jobs in an economic crisis, while at the same time maintaining the welfare that we can all see right now, how important is not only for our society and us as people, but also for our economy in the long term. Most established economists do not say that you could do more, and that you could not improve both welfare and the social safety net, according to Enhedslisten's view, but the basic course is the right one.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119145959	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150000	Thank you. The calculations now I have to speak a little louder, so Mrs. Pernille Skipper can hear it, even when I'm whispering from the red building called the Treasury, over there behind the noisy people so it's the government itself that has made these calculations. Well, what I just want to come... Pernille Skipper you do so much). Yes, they do so much, but you can, after all, often rely on it. Oh, no, it was recorded that I said it. Oh! Nevertheless, it is the case that welfare has to be financed from somewhere. It has to be of wealth. A policy has been pursued that reduces the prosperity of people who are opposed to growth. Frankly, does Mrs Pernille Skipper think that this is a wise way of conducting economic policy? Or does Mrs Pernille Skipper recognise that growth leads to prosperity that can be used for welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150049	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150050	I mean, I am not religious about growth, rather, on the contrary, because I think it is quite important what it is for growth that we are developing in our society, for example. Whether or not that growth is beneficial to our planet. So the thing about as long as it grows, it's good. Well, one day we will also have to think about whether we need more consumption in our society or else we need to focus on. Basically, the economic model we have in Denmark is with a strong public sector, which can also help the private sector in crisis situations as now, the one of the reasons why we manage better in economic crises than other countries, and also one of the reasons why we are repeatedly voted one of the best places in the world where it is best to start our own business. We have a strong public infrastructure to support the private sector, and I think that we should continue to build up after many years of cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150138	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150142	Thank you. I would like to continue with the lead that Mrs Mette Frederiksen was on in relation to Mrs Pernille Skipper. Is there no situation at all where you have to take your own responsibility as an adult, also in relation to your children, that is, if you go and fight for some conditions and values that are completely diametrically opposed to everything we stand for in Denmark? If you succeed, you get a caliphate, then you get an Islamist state formation, and if you fail, you want to return to a secure environment in Denmark. Is there not somewhere where we must also take responsibility for the decision we have actually taken and where we as a country should be allowed to say 'no' and say 'no' to us here, that we think the people in question have gone so far away from us that they cannot just come back when their mission fails?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150231	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150233	I basically agree with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl in that there can be a situation where one gets so far away from the fundamental values that one has to be punished and held accountable for one's actions. We do so in the Danish courts with legal certainty, with the right to a defender and a prosecutor, and where you are innocent until proven otherwise, and then you will be put in prison if you have earned it. This is how our democratic system is built. It is a community based on the rule of law, and I am fundamentally of the opinion that the rule of law must apply to all Danish citizens, no matter how far out I think what they have done is. This applies to the murderers, to those who harm children, but it also applies to them here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150320	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150322	So the answer is really no. Here are some adults who have made a decision to go out into the world to fight for an Islamist caliphate. Their mission then failed, but what if it had succeeded? Then we would have had a state formation which, from where it would now be, would fight against the free society that we have in Denmark. Well, isn't there a limit to naivety here? This also applies when we discuss citizenship of people who have come from abroad. We have rolled ourselves into it ourselves: we have some who have Danish citizenship and who deny Danish values and fight against what we normally stand for in Denmark. But here it is people who even go out into the world to be ready to fight for things that are so diametrically opposed to what we stand for. Should it not have any consequences, even when they have to take responsibility for the choice they have made?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150408	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150410	I think that the naivety comes from somewhere other than from me here, so that one can have such a narrow-minded approach to the conflict that has been in Syria. At the moment, they do not actually succeed because of what? It is because of the Kurdish forces that defeated the Islamic State in Syria and are now facing all the problems, including the Danish citizens. We are so happy to leave them to the democratic forces that are down there. That is also to run away from the responsibility of a state, and not to support a de-radicalisation at all. On the contrary, PET says that the risk of these children being radicalised and becoming a threat to the Danish state is increasing almost every day they are down there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150452	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150458	There's a lot you can ask, but I'm almost called to stay on this subject. There are none of us, I think, who do not think it is a terrible pity for these children, and it is hard to bear that they have to go through this because their mothers may have gone down to have children for the caliphate, because we should make sure that all of us who sit here have their throats cut and what else they have fought for. I would like to know if it is the case that if these children were to go home because if they are Danish citizens and show up somewhere, then you can't say they're not allowed into the country... should they bring the mothers? So, does Mrs Pernille Skipper think that it would be possible to remove in absentia, or do we just have to live with those mothers coming home, and then we have to see what happens?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150547	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150548	Well, first of all, children are legally own individuals. But to think that a 4-year-old with ptsd himself will have the opportunity to approach some embassy somewhere and so few consular assistance might be just naive enough. Then there are some of the adults down there who are also Danish citizens and who, as such, also have the right to go home if they have the opportunity. And, of course, if they come here, we must make a specific individual assessment of whether these children should be forcibly removed under the applicable law. Moreover, if adults come back here, they will have to be tried and, if necessary, sentenced for their actions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150621	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150623	But does Mrs Pernille Skipper recognise that the second those children come to Denmark, their extremist parents, their mothers, follow along and that this presents us with a challenge as a society? Because that's what's so creepy; it's grotesque to think about that, you can't understand that there are people who have gone down and fought for that. Now they can travel here because they have the right, if the children come here, to travel with them. And sometimes you have to make some difficult choices in life, and if they come here it may be people who are potential terrorists and who plan to blow up one or the other or the third in this country... it must also be considered by Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150710	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150713	But I do recognise that parents are following the children, unless it turns out that they can be forced to remove them in absentia, and I think that is still under consideration. But I recognize that. And that means, of course, that the second they come to the country, they must be prosecuted and punished for their actions. That's how it works in a community of law, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. How it doesn't work in a community of law is just to let the children pay for the actions of the parents, and that is the consequence that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen will have to admit that even if it is unbearable to think about. But that's the consequence, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen has chosen the law from which the children are punished instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150749	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150752	Thank you. After all, we hardly agree with Enhedslisten on whether or not we should take violent Islamists, potential terrorists, to Denmark. We absolutely must not. Then leave it. In the past, I have tried to get answers from the party leader in relation to the European Union. In the past, the Enhedslisten has been in favour of us leaving the European Union. And I have not yet managed to get a clear answer from Mrs Pernille Skipper. Does Enhedslisten still want Denmark to leave the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150821	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150823	The Enhedslisten is opposed to the European Union as international cooperation, it is right now not of all international cooperation, but fundamental of what the market is placed above respect for human rights and in relation to their major democratic problems, etc. However, we will not have a vote until we know the subject of the vote. Well, the Danes need to know what the alternative is. And we can see with brexit now that you can be stuck to the eye as a voter if you do not know exactly what the alternative is in a vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150853	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150854	We are in agreement with that. And, of course, I hope that, when we get there, the Enhedslist will support the Danes being allowed to vote on whether we should stay in the European Union or an alternative. I have another question. The government has announced that during the year it will have to decide how to make Danish agriculture more climate-friendly. And Danish agriculture is globally climate heroes. We have an agriculture in Denmark that produces food with a significantly lower footprint on the climate than agriculture virtually everywhere else. What part of Danish agriculture does Enhedslisten think must be taken out to achieve the climate targets that have been set?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150934	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119150935	Oh, I just don't think I remember the number to be completely honest. The Enhedslisten has created a climate plan back in 2017, where we also find the reductions needed to achieve a 70-percent target, including in agriculture. One of the things that is one of the most important instruments is the set-aside I do not remember the exact figure on it. And another important instrument for us is CO2 plant production or more sustainable meat production.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119151009	The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119151012	On Thursday, Enhedslisten votes for a car agreement that allows 600,000 more cars on the roads by 2030, knowing that half of CO2 It is an agreement that meets great criticism from the green organisations and which Enhedslisten himself has also been criticizing one has entered into. What happened to Enhedslisten when you entered that car deal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119151034	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119151036	What just happened to the Enhedslisten? As Mr. Torsten Gejl says it is an agreement that we ourselves have criticised. It is because we think it is important to be honest when you make an agreement that is not the one you have dreamed of and that does not deliver what it should, and it is important that you do not pretend that it is something else. It is, however, an agreement that goes in the right direction which reduces CO2 but it is true that, for us, that agreement is not closed because we need more in the field of transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119151117	Sir. Torsten Gejl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119151118	It sounds good that it is not closed or that we can at least try to open it again or open it up to something similar. What does Enhedslisten think about today's opinion that we should in fact almost open and renegotiate all the agreements we have made in the Climate Action Plan if we are to achieve the 70-percent reduction target by 2030 at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119151141	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119151143	I think it's almost going to happen on its own. When we say that it is not closed, it is not because the narrow agreement is not technically closed, but because we need to do more in the car sector. And there is no doubt that the infrastructure agreement that we are about to make very soon will be much, much more exciting than what the title says, because then we will really have to invest in some green public transport and get fewer people into the cars and more into the buses and all the other collectives. And what we can just see when we add it together is that with what has happened so far in the car sector, we do not reach 70%. It would certainly be a great pity for Danish agriculture, one might say, if they are to bear the latter. And that means we come back to the cars, we come back to the question of waste and we come back to that about energy. We have to.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119151229	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. There are no more brief remarks to Mrs Pernille Skipper, and while cleaning for the next person, I can tell you that the next person on the list of speakers is the party leader of the Conservatives. It's sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119151300	Tax increases. The highest tax burden in the whole OECD. A supply of work deteriorated by several thousand people. A new unnecessary and too expensive transfer income. Add even more election promises in the billions. Of course, many may think: What does it really concern me? Yes, it does, because it means that within a few years our welfare society can crack. So clear is the announcement from the Danish business community, those who finance our welfare society. They say clearly that if the government's economic policy does not improve, we can look far in the future to be the world's best cure for cancer, look a long way after having a top-class education system, and our elderly can risk looking far for the help they need. There is no advice if that course continues, where fire taxes are levied on our industry and the room for manoeuvre in an even larger public sector. Director of the Danish Industry Lars Sandahl even tells Berlingske that the government's course is an extremely high level of irresponsibility. Of course, I am deeply concerned about this. I look forward to seeing what reforms the government is going through. What goes without saying is that it is certainly needed. For decades, both social democratic governments and bourgeois governments have otherwise modernised the welfare society through reforms. The bourgeois reforms are a good example of this, for without them we would not have been able to afford to go through the corona crisis. Since 2001, bourgeois governments have provided 240,000 jobs, i.e.: 90% the reforms that have improved employment. The current government has reduced labour supply by up to 11,000 people, although people have just been fired in the corona crisis. That is what I think we should find another way to go, and that is why I am ready to add our mandates if they can be used, if the government is ready for other negotiations, too, and to change the course. We must get out of the crisis, not just health, but also ensure that there are new jobs, that there is core welfare, and give the Danes economic freedom and prosperity. In addition to the family economy, there is another concern that has filled a great deal in recent years: our health, the health of families. That concern will be lessened as the vaccines are given, but we also have other health challenges in Denmark, which will not be gone in a few months' time, where the answer is not a vaccine. We're getting older. We're gonna get more cronys. We need doctors, and we need to offer the Danes a more close health care system that is without trouble for citizens when both regions and municipalities play key roles in one's life. That is why I should like to conclude my speech today by simply reminding you that we will soon and as soon as possible start negotiations on the new health agreement on a health reform which the Prime Minister has given me in the opening debate to come here in 2021. The old VLAK government and the Danish People's Party had an agreement. It fell in the elections, but it was widely recognised in the Folketing and in the interest groups that this was needed. The Corona doesn't mean we're gonna have to wait. After all, the Corona means that we have a healthcare system that must be able to deal with this in the future, with far more cronys and far more people who will need our health care. Then that invitation is also given.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119151630	Thank you to the Conservative Party leader. The first brief remark is to Mrs Mette Frederiksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119151637	Thank you. First of all, thank you very much for joining the negotiations so constructively. We will look forward to that, and I have no doubt that we can achieve results together, including with the Conservative People's Party. I therefore agree that many of the reforms we have made over time across the political parties have contributed to strengthening Denmark. But that's exactly the concept, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen uses, namely to crack cracks, is also one of the characteristics of some of the reforms. If, for example, we take the police area, the enormous centralisation that has taken place by the police has certainly not given the citizen a better police force. I guess it's just drained the police of working hours from being near the citizens who are looking for the police. So reform is not only good. Reforms need to be done wisely this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119151723	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119151724	I think it is a good idea to always make wise reforms. Then it is also the case that, in relation to the major reform of the police, it was not back in 2007 that we can see today that there have been some tendencies towards centralisation, which, moreover, has been in many other areas of policy, and which have gone too far in some areas. I think there has been a broad recognition of that here. But if we are to be able to afford what we have done now, namely to get even more officers and create a stronger police force, then we must ensure that Denmark's economy has the strength to make those reforms too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119151801	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119151803	So far, so good. Centralisation has taken precedence over, and some of the reforms that have been implemented have helped to drain part of the outermost regions of Denmark from the absolutely crucial core functions of being a well-functioning society. We shall then begin to rectify that. However, this applies a little wider than that, and I hope, in fact, that, across the political spectrum, we can have a discussion with each other about whether the crisis policy of the past has always been the right one. If you tighten up at the wrong time, you risk prolonging a crisis; you risk not strengthening competitiveness, not increasing productivity and not having the right balance, including social balance in a society. Then, in reality, the crisis could be extended and deepened. And that is what we want to avoid this time by investing more out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119151852	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119151853	There is certainly time for investment and there is time to tighten up, depending on the situation. When we are going to get Denmark back on track, there is a need for investment, yes, but we may also need to look at the whole level of taxation. Well, you've seen studies show that if you lower corporate tax, it's good for all Danes. We could do that, too. It brings more welfare. It brings more prosperity.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119151921	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119151924	Thank you. I thought those were wise and wise words from Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen may not be so surprising. I can now also particularly well point out that it is a good idea to make wise reforms, and I am pleased that both the Prime Minister and Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen agrees with what sounded like a broad consensus down here. With regard to the wise reforms and to do so wisely, I can understand from the Prime Minister that the timing is also right. What does Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen on the timing of the more than 30 tax increases that the government has chosen to make since it came to a year and a half ago? Has this been wise timing in relation to the crisis we are in the middle of?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152002	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152004	No, I certainly don't think that's been wise timing. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen and I have been in the same discussions. At least I remember a debate and a discussion... wasn't it at the Statens Museum of Art? So that's just what's coming, either directly or indirectly. That's why it's just the wrong way. We have an industry that is under pressure to the utmost at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152034	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152036	I don't think we'll disagree on that either. Compared to this, using reforms wisely and using the room of manoeuvre wisely, and doing smart things and hours right, I also understand that some of the most wise men in this country have even the title of it today to say that it is not certain that such a thing as a deduction of research and development costs for companies is the right timing right now. Unfortunately, it has only been extended by one year, i.e. the additional deduction for research and development activities. Is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen agrees that it would be wise to extend this increased deduction for research and development costs and thus create jobs in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152121	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152123	I think it's a good idea. Having said that, I would really like to be able to discuss it more broadly, because I would actually rather have that instead of creating a lot of subsidies, deductions, schemes generally lower the cost level for everyone, so you have a more free choice than where you want to invest. But in this situation, I think this deduction is really, really wise; it makes Denmark stronger.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152147	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152151	Thank you. Mrs Mai Mercado, chairman of the Conservative Group, replied to a question last week about the possible freeing of the Conservative Group in connection with an impeachment case against Inger Løjberg that it was not at all open to the Conservatives because everyone in the Conservative Group agreed that it was a proper decision to raise an impeachment case. Now that you're so sure it's a real decision, what do you build it on? Has one looked at previous criticism of ministers where no impeachment has been raised, so one is sure that this case can actually bear it? Or have you not had any assessments that this case might not be able to carry an impeachment case at all? Why is it that one is so sure that no one in the Conservative Group even wanted to be able to vote against impeachment?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152239	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152240	It is not a secret that I think it is really, really awful that we are about to start an impeachment case. I'm not hiding that. I do not like it at all, and if, in our opinion, there had been any possibility of avoiding it, we should have avoided it and we have not looked at old cases and so on. We've been looking into this case. We have looked at what the Instructor's Commission says and what it is that the two lawyers that the Danish Parliament has hired say, and when we get down to it and look at it, we have asked ourselves how we could come to a different conclusion than that we have to raise the matter. It's not that we like it, but we just can't see any other way out of it. For us, this is purely legal and that is why we came to that conclusion, and it is the legal arguments that have been put forward in the group and no one has asked to be released and we have seen that, unfortunately, this must be the case. But we don't find any pleasure in this, I just want to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152333	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152334	I'm not accusing you of that either, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen or others. Nevertheless, I think that when you raise such a matter, you should be sure that it is proportional. There's been a lot of talk about this here with equality before the law, and equality before the law in this context.That's what I keep defending isn't just that you look back at the early 1990s and the impeachment case that was and why it was raised, but that's also to look at: What has happened since that time and so on in relation to criticism of ministers who have violated the rules in one way or another, perhaps to a grave extent, but where there hasn't been an impeachment case? We have to weigh it on that weight, and we are putting forward a proposal that we should now have the case law that comes out of it. I'd like to ask Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, just as I have asked others: Søren Pape Poulsen's Conservative Party supports such a proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152413	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152423	I would like to help discuss how it is to be examined and how much apparatus we have to set in motion and what it will lead to. Well, I understand the point, as Mr. Thompson did. Kristian Thulesen Dahl travels here: Do we measure it from the same ruler? I just think that's what we've come up with when there's such a clear report from the commission and it's seen with my laymen's eyes is so surprisingly clear from the lawyers as the Danish Parliament has asked to investigate, that we couldn't see another way than that we had to support such a case. That's gotta be it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152504	The next brief remark is to Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152508	Thank you so much. Here too, thanks for the constructive ones, I think, are expressions of commitment to working precisely for an economic plan, which is what I am repeatedly calling for here, perhaps even a green 2030 plan, in which Conservatives could also see themselves. Why not do it across some of the parties here in the Folketing? I think that would be an innovation that Danish politics needed, also on top of corona. So that's not what I'm gonna ask, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen also agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152545	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152546	Well, we could get into a room where we're really going to see if we could make a long-term economic plan where it makes sense and where we're doing something that moves something, so moving some commas, then I'm quite ready to sit down at that negotiating table. But it must be because there is a real will, and it must also be because one then accepts that it is not necessarily all the parties of the Folketing that will be part of such an agreement there. But I fully agree with the idea of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152617	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152618	Thank you. That sounds good to me. After all, the will is one that we can help to bring together ourselves. Moreover, the same applies to the green conversion, and without comparison with what one likes, it is not all to make the green conversion happen, which one necessarily thinks is wonderful, because one has to make things move. We can't go on, I guess. Søren Pape Poulsen agrees with me, with the same behavior all in every way; then it will not happen. Well, then, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen also there willing to say that there are some things we need to do to move things on so that we can achieve our green goal?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152658	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152659	It is there, and it is obvious that if we are to move something, there are things we need to do. Then we just have to get into the room where we become more specific about what we have to do and what it has to do with costs. I do not want to hide the fact that we are very concerned about the leakage effect, and we are very concerned about the number of jobs. I would like to say net, because it may well happen that in the future there will be one kind of jobs we have fewer of, in return for having more of others, and I think we should take that debate without prejudice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152729	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152733	I wasn't really going to take the floor, but that debate, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen had with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, made me have to take the floor. Because this debate on proportions, I think, is out of proportion. Well, I think it's completely stoned. I would like to say that I have great respect for both the Left and the Conservative People's Party, because they have chosen to continue along the path of law being law and that this applies in a constitutional state. I know it's not easy, but in this time of populism and rapid opinion, it's really good to feel that there's a strong popular government, so I really just want to say thank you for that. I know that the Danish People's Party also did not want an impeachment case when there was the Tamil case. It took Poul Schlüter, who was then Prime Minister, quite seriously, and I think that Mr Schlüter is right. Søren Pape Poulsen with this continues on that trail. So I just want to say thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152825	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152826	I don't know if I should be happy or thank you. But it is a heavy decision to raise such a case. I think we all think so, and that is something that we would basically prefer to be left out of, I think. But we looked each other in the eyes of our group and said: what lies there is so clear that that is how it must be. And that's why we made that decision. I know that many people have researched why one or the other or the third our group thinks so. Yeah, it hurts, and some people are really hurting this, but it just doesn't change what the legal conclusion was in the two notes that were. That is why we have taken the decision we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152907	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152909	The reason why I stress this so much is that I believe that with what we are currently seeing in the outside world, it is important that there are some who stand firm on the principles of the rule of law and on this understanding that democracy works on some grounds. Otherwise, it will be too easy, when the majority changes, to do one thing, the other and the third. I think we're gonna have to hold on to that. That is why I took the floor. I don't think it's easy either. I do not think that such decisions are easy, even if I belong to the other side of the middle or whatever it is called in Danish politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152948	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119152950	Yes, it is difficult, and I would also just like to say that we have different approaches. I also have a great deal of respect for the fact that, although there are clear conclusions, it can be weighed on a different scale. It is also to say here that I do not want to be taken as an income for the Danish People's Party and New Citizens' Party not to be in favour of the rule of law, because I believe that the two parties certainly do. Then we can look at some things differently, and we might weigh them on different weights. It has been shown here how we weigh them. It's just for me to say the same thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119153020	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119153024	Thank you. The struggle for our climate and environment has always been the heartblood of the Conservative People's Party. In the old days, it was the fight against "smooth, noise and crap." Now it's our common planet. ▪ This is what the Conservative People's Party says on its website. Does this mean that the Conservative People's Party agrees with the UN climate panel, which states that we probably cannot manage to keep global temperature increases of 1.5 degrees without using nuclear power, and sees Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen nuclear energy as part of the conservative climate solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119153101	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119153103	Sometimes you just have to break down and confess where your intellectual limitations are, and I just want to say that I am not an expert on this question of what solutions are needed for one thing or another. Of course, we also have that discussion with us whether it is part of the solution. As I understand it, as far as the costs that will be involved are concerned, for example. Having nuclear power in Denmark will be so expensive a solution that it does not measure up to the challenges that we have to solve. I have an open-minded approach to this, and we have also discussed thorium at some point in the last period in this Chamber, which I think should be discussed without prejudice. But it is not the case that we have a plan for some new nuclear power stations tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119153145	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119153147	Thank you for your answer. The Danish Parliament decided in 1985 to take nuclear power out of Danish energy planning, and since then a lot has been done in this area. As the party leader also mentions, thorium is something that we know about today and that was not known at the time. We come from New Citizens with a resolution later this spring, which is about once again making it possible to seek public funds for research into nuclear energy. Will the Conservative People's Party support such a resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119153221	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119153223	I would like to see what that proposal says, because during the last period we actually voted in favour of a proposal on research in thorium, that part of it. We then felt that we should look at it without prejudice and allow us to examine it instead of deciding in advance that we would not look at it at all. Thorium, which may be the better way to do it, I think that we should look at it without prejudice. So if that is what this is all about, then we will be the mind to say yes, because we did so in the last parliamentary term as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119153251	The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119153255	Thank you. There are many of us who believe that the process of impeachment against Inger Løjberg has been a little unworthy, marked by a political strategy. There have been many leaks and that it is a process which may not have to run in such a way that we, as Members of Parliament, have to decide whether or not one of our colleagues should for impeachment, but that we should perhaps have another type of body, a legal body, for example. a constitutional court which could deal with such issues so that it does not become such a type of process as it has been here at Christiansborg. Will the party leader help to investigate whether we could do so in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119153329	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119153331	I feel like the whole impeachment system is really a mess. Basically, it is a mess that we sit and act as prosecutor in the Folketing. I think it is. The problem is, of course, a bit of how we should change it with what it would require, and if we are going to go into constitutional changes and something like that, we may have a bit of a long-term outlook. But perhaps we can find other ways of dealing with it, so that we do not have to go into this where we sit and act as prosecutors, which I basically do not like, but I do recognise that this is the instrument in the law, but I do not think it is preferable for this to be the case. I don't think it should be politicians who do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119153416	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119153417	Another matter is that I had a debate with one of the party leader's colleagues, Niels Flemming Hansen, here on Friday's News. He had had the excellent idea that when we are now being vaccinated, those who have been vaccinated are allowed to come in for leisure and cultural offers and experiences. I very, very much agree with that. The reason we were set against each other was that in the alternative, we believe that if you can show a negative coronatest approved by the health authorities at the entrance, or you can show that you have antibodies in your blood because you have had corona, then you must also be able to come in so that you do not exclude someone who does not actually infect others. What does the party leader think about that discussion?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119153458	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119153459	After all, the leader of the party thinks that his rapporteur has certainly been right in what he has said. Just to hold on to this thing with coronapas and vaccine passes, etc. I would say that I think it is a very good way to get something started in a transition. Because at some point so many people will have been vaccinated that it may not be so much needed. I feel that although I can't do anything, others can do it. Of course, the health authorities must approve it, because it must be right and it must be safe, and perhaps you are contagious even if you are and so on. All health matters must be dealt with, but if this is under control, let us give it the opportunity to open up more if nothing is done about it and people have been vaccinated. I'm pretty much ready for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119153542	Thus, thank you to the Conservative Party leader, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen. The next party leader comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119153609	In New Citizens we have a vision of our political activities. Politicians must decide less, and Danes must decide much more for themselves, also over more of their own money. Vigorousness, diligence and production have made Denmark rich. The whole country has contributed, but the root of our prosperity is found in the thousands of small businesses on land and in cities that have made Denmark a free, rich and prosperous country. Vigorousness, diligence and production do not thrive under a yoke of wild laws and regulations, centralisation of power and too high taxes. Vigorousness, diligence and production do not thrive when politicians always believe to know best and will determine everything; even when they know better in the big cities to satisfy their own dreams of a CO2 When you look at developments in a slightly larger perspective, it is, together with the need to solve the immigration policy from scratch, one of the most important breaking points in Danish politics • the gap between those who create the values and those who control the values. Unfortunately, it is also very much a rift between life in the big city and life in the rest of the country. To get Denmark back together on the fundamental values, we must give more freedom to the Danes. We must move power back to the smaller communities, to the families, to those who work, produce and create wealth. We must cut the unnecessary layers of fat from the rule-driven society, from our rule-controlled welfare state and reduce taxes. We need to create a bourgeois renaissance. At the moment, things are going too fast in the wrong direction. The government and its support parties prefer to raise taxes instead of putting them down, and on the rule side we see examples such as the forced distribution of high school students and the ban on drawing profits out of private companies such as private accommodation and day-to-day services. Politicians move Denmark away from bourgeois values. My task, our task as a citizen, is to bring the bourgeois vision to the Danes. In the past, bourgeois power was won by copying social democracy's politics. It's not gonna make society any more bourgeois. It is not a question of moving bourgeois parties across the middle; it is a question of moving the middle. There are already so many good citizens in Denmark, and I am quite convinced that the majority of Danes will buy into a bourgeois vision of more freedom, fewer rules, more local self-government, fewer taxes and lower taxes. If only in the bourgeois family we will be familiar with our bourgeoisie and tell what we are striving for, then we will have and experience a bourgeois renaissance, and it will be good.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119153913	Thank you to the party leader of the New Citizens' Party. The first party leader to ask for the floor is the party leader of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Mette Frederiksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119153921	I understand that, when you are very bourgeois, you want to support bourgeois politics, but it is almost always the case in Denmark that when the Danes have been to vote what, moreover, you are really good at doing in this country, the election result is just around the middle of politics, and the so-called red block and the so-called blue block are almost equal, and then it changes every once in a while. So I actually think, although I would also like to promote social democratic values, that it is most important that we can work with each other, even if we are not equally responsible for government responsibility or part of the block that might have been given the most mandates. So I would like to ask specifically whether New Citizens this year will be involved in a cooperation to ensure proper decentralization of Denmark, for example in the field of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154008	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154009	We will, and we have been lucky in Denmark, in that even when we have had social democratic prime ministers, they have not actually been quite as poor as they could have been. We have had a Poul Nyrup Rasmussen government which, after all, has conducted a relatively responsible economic policy, and we have also had a Helle Thorning-Schmidt government which, with the help of the Radical Left, was in fact almost more bourgeois than real bourgeois governments. So that way it hasn't been quite as red as it could have been, and not quite as wrong as it could have been. New citizens have said from the beginning that we are going constructively to this. We were involved in a police agreement which, of course, is so much about decentralisation. This is an important first step. We look forward to taking further steps, and we hope that this will mean real freedom for citizens and not just freedom for municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154052	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154055	It is not because I say that we can bring Denmark back to something it was, and I am not sure that that is what should be aimed at, but I am quite sure that we can go up against the trend that has been that if things were just centralised, they would also be better. And I would like to sign for cooperation on the police, because I remember when I was out saying that I thought we could halve the National Police and stressed the importance of getting the near police back, that there were many critics, but nevertheless we now have a broad police agreement. Unfortunately, there are some who are not with us where we are strengthening the close police force and thus doing away with centralisation. I do not claim that we can do anything we want to do in the field of education with a fingertips, but I think it is important that we support that, for example, there is something that is important. continue to be upper secondary education, even in areas where there are not so many young people, and I and the government want us to start moving some education back into the country. I almost interpret the words in such a way that New Citizens are also involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154143	Thank you. The President shall take the floor, because time is well over. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154149	We are, but for us it is not just a question of moving public tasks into the municipalities so that they can still be solved publicly. It is also about moving responsibility to the citizens. It is about giving citizens a real and freer choice, which is why we are concerned that the government and the government's support parties will make it more difficult for citizens to make free choices.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154215	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154218	Thank you for your speech to Mrs Pernille Vermund. That's right: it's nice to be a citizen. It is even better to be liberal. Because as a liberal it is not just the power we want to move, it is the responsibility. And with responsibility comes freedom, and freedom, as you know, works for all good. As a good citizen, I know that Mrs Pernille Vermund has read the Stock Exchange this morning and certainly also, as I was pleased to see, that the Prime Minister seems to be embarking on a new course of reform. What reforms do the New Citizens intend to take on board in order to boost growth?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154253	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154255	Well, we acknowledge that there is a very, very large red majority in the Folketing today, and that is why we do not believe that New Citizens' policy can be implemented during this parliamentary period. However, we would very much like to see those places where we have taxes and charges which so much hamper our growth. In other words, we have a registration fee which is extremely growth-retardant and which also means that there are families in the country who find it difficult to reconcile everyday life; families who do not have the same access to public transport as they do in the cities. So it is a very concrete place where we want to reduce both taxes and taxes, but also increase growth and opportunities for citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154336	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154338	Thank you. After all, we must not allow ourselves to be hindered by the fact that we do not have enough mandates to implement our policy, and I am not hearing Mrs Pernille Vermund do that here either. I think that's fine. What are the more specific proposals? What I am thinking of is the supply of labour. I mean, how are we gonna screw up the job offer? How do we get more people to be part of the working community? It is in my view one of the most important communities to be involved in; one of the communities which can give people personal freedom and give us as a country the economic freedom that is necessary if we want to have prosperity and prosperity in the future. What is New Citizen's proposal for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154419	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154421	We are, fortunately, in a situation in Denmark where, apart from the Corona period, we have had relatively low unemployment, but there is one group which, after all, is boning out violently in this area; people who do not enter the labour market and who are, of course, putting a heavy burden on our society. After all, we are talking about non-western immigrants and descendants, and almost regardless of what we do in employment, they do not enter the labour market. What we've been able to see worked was when you put down the benefits. We would like to eliminate public support for foreigners altogether, but we would also like to take part, as a minimum, in reducing benefits and going against what the government and the support parties have done, namely to raise public benefits to unemployed foreigners, because we do not believe that it will get people into employment, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154510	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154514	Thank you. Mrs Pernille Vermund has already confirmed to me in this Chamber that the economic policy of the new bourgeoisie, among other things. The aim is to remove top tax, eliminate corporation tax, remove registration tax, as mentioned here, in other words, a large number of taxes and taxes, which total around 100 billion. kr. I also understand that we are in the process of revising, that is to say, finding out exactly how we are going to give our bid, and that is what I am a little interested to hear today: when do we really get the overview of how the 100 billion? kr. is obtained? We had a debate here at the third reading of the draft budget, where we also asked the New Citizens' Financial Rapporteur for the same thing, and he could say that it was something that would come later. So now I'm just asking, when is it later that we get that overview?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154557	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154558	But the funding itself in the large clumps is so relatively clear. What is not clear is what exactly is the impact it has on our economy when taxes are reduced in different places, because we know that when we have a new Finance Act, it is a new basis of assessment, and therefore it becomes more difficult for a small party like us to follow up on new finance laws all the time. However, the large chunks of savings are clear, and they have done so all the time, and they are exactly the same as we have mentioned before.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154626	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154628	Well, okay, then I'm not fully informed, because I think I have funding for about half of the 100 billion. kr., and as I can see it in my calculation, there are approx. 50 billion. kr. And that's what they said would come later. Berlingske also had, on 31 December, just before it came to 2021, a big article about it, where they also pointed out that there were simply no calculations here. But I am glad that if you have it with the New Citizens, you can just put it forward so that the rest of us can see how to finance minus growth in the public sector for 10 years, which amounts to 100 billion. kr. to remove top tax, eliminate corporation tax, remove registration tax, etc. That is something we are just saying, but we would just like to see the calculation of what disappears in the public sector when 100 billion. kr. disappear. Well, if Mrs Pernille Vermund has it, please just give it to me, because then I won't have to ask about it, then I've got it, and I'll be happy about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154717	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154719	I will probably repeat myself and repeat my financial rapporteur, but we must start from the end of: Privatisation of Denmark's Radio: 4 billion. kr.; management of job centres: 4 billion. kr.; conversion of loans into loans: 12 billion. kr.; abolition of graduation allowance: 2 billion. kr.; Stop accessing pre-retirement pay: 9 billion. kr.; media support: 0.5 billion. kr.; abolition of the housing job scheme: 0.5 billion. kr.; abolition of green cheques: 2 billion. kr.; then we're up to 34 billion. kr.; waste of development aid: 17 billion. kr.; net contribution to the EU now increased: 4 billion. kr.; business subsidies where a lot of money is spent and we say we can save 5 billion. kr.; then we reach 60 billion. kr.; we have to solve foreign policy from the bottom up, and in addition there is that part of the room for manoeuvre which has not been set aside and has not yet been used, which we believe should not be used, and then we are up to 110 billion. kr. That was the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154803	Thank you, and I also gave a little extra time to get to the end of the calculation. Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154811	Thank you. I think that all the votes that will work for a responsible economic direction and ensure that there are enough people at work are good, so I think that is a very interesting question from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. You can also get the calculations from the Ministry of Finance to have great respect for small parties, I know about that when you don't have the device yourself. So I look forward to that too and look forward to it. However, I have some very specific questions. Mrs Pernille Vermund also referred to conventions before, so I would like to find out quite frankly whether Pernille Vermund's party, in order to be a support party for a possible bourgeois government, would demand that it withdraw from conventions, the refugee convention, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154909	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154910	I have certainly not mentioned conventions, but it may be that the party leader thought that it would probably be part of my speech, and it has never been a demand on the part of New Citizens that we have a future government to resign from conventions. What we have said quite clearly is that, if it is necessary to resolve the policy on foreigners from the bottom up, for example, to withdraw from the stateless Convention or from the refugee convention, which has been created in a different time and for a different purpose than what they are serving today, we are willing to do so. But it is not an absolute requirement, as I have heard the party leader talking about earlier and also Lars Løkke Rasmussen mention, from us to resign from conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154950	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119154952	Well, I think that's super interesting. So just to clarify the matter of EU membership, I think it was in dialogue with myself when I was in the Chair that the party leader mentioned what we in Radicals are deeply concerned about and our parties are certainly politically divided about, and that is how it is, I would like to ask: is this something that will not be a requirement for a future government either?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119155017	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119155019	This is definitely a wish, and it is something we will work for, but it is not the case that we say that we cannot support a bourgeois government if we do not get out of the European Union. I think that the Danes really owe it to them to do the work, to tell them, as was also said earlier, what the alternative is, to present it to the Danes and to use the time needed to ensure that the Danes are able to make the choice: should we stay in the EU, or should we, for example, have to stay in the EU? in another cooperation with Norway, with Switzerland, with Iceland and those countries in Europe that are not part of the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119155048	So I would like to thank Mrs Pernille Vermund from the New Citizens' Party. There are no further brief comments to the party leader. The last party leader here in this party leader's round today comes from the alternative, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119155106	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to say that in the alternative we will be tabling a motion for a resolution to examine the possibility of a constitutional court or similar body in Denmark, which will have to decide in future whether ministers and members of parliament should be brought before a court of impeachment. We do not believe that we politicians are capable of assessing whether charges should be brought against political allies or opponents. We think that the process of assessing whether Inger Løbberg should be impeached has been marked by a political strategy, and I believe that the people see that through, and I think that people are repelled by it. The crown of indignity then comes when we in the Chamber have to vote on whether Inger Løjberg should for an impeachment. Here New Civil and indeed Pia Kjærsgaard from the Danish People's Party is trying to get the clearing system of the Danish Parliament lifted, so all 179 members of parliament are due to appear and vote at the beginning of February right in the middle of what is supposed to be the worst phase of the corona crisis. We believe that the idea is to expose and intimidate the politicians who vote for Inger Løjberg to be impeached. It is, in fact, an unprecedented democratic pressure on members of parliament who have their right to manage their mandate in the Assembly, as they please, and it is also superfluous because all parties have confirmed who are voting for and against. So it risks ending up as a super-infectious dispersal event that will put the Danish Parliament out of effect. I think it shows quite clearly that we cannot leave this kind of decision to politicians, and that is why the alternative will have examined what it will take to move this kind of case to a constitutional court or another type of body. With regard to the corona crisis, we are also happy in the alternative that a vaccine has been introduced and we are positive that a vaccine passport will be introduced so that the Danes can enter the countries where it is required. But we are sceptical if a law is to be passed that it only requires a vaccine passport to cross the Danish border and that one can only enter, for example. sports experiences and cultural events if you have a vaccine passport. Here we believe that evidence that you have had corona and thus have antibodies, or a fresh negative coronatest should also be accessable. As Søren Brostrøm said on TV, we must not condemn those who are nervous about being vaccinated. Personally, I intend to be vaccinated, because I would not be able to bear to infect someone who died from it, but I respect the fact that there are people who are terrified of being injected with vaccine, such as us. do not know the long-term effects of, in the body. I therefore believe that health authorities should advise on how to make a coronatest that is safe enough to let people in, for example. a football game. Finally, I would like to deal briefly with the legislation we are making in order to achieve our climate targets. In the alternative, we were full of hope when, last year at this time, we were about to draw up an action plan to reduce CO2 by 2030. Now a year later, it is not only the alternative, but also all the green organisations that are disappointed with what 2020 ended with by climate bells, and it is even with the participation of parties that have themselves criticised the government for climate bells. SF and Radicals were lured into a so-called green tax agreement, which did not contain the uniform climate taxes that everyone with an understanding of climate had been sighing for. Even Enhedslisten chooses to become part of the problem instead of part of the solution when on Thursday they vote for a car agreement that allows 600,000 more cars to come on the roads. Our prayer to the support parties is: vote no to the unambitious car agreement on Thursday, and join in fighting for a partial target for CO2 in CO2 Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119155431	Thank you to the party leader. There are requests for short remarks. First it is from the party leader of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Mette Frederiksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119155437	Thank you. This criticism of colleagues who take responsibility for solving problems always seems a bit strange to me. Fortunately, Denmark has been created not by revolution, but by reforms, and that means that we have moved in the right direction step by step, as we are doing very much in the area of climate change. Now we have discussed climate today, and that is not really what I wanted to ask. I would like to ask about our proximity reform, which we have set in motion, and which I actually have the impression that the alternative also supports, which means that we are now seriously putting some municipalities together with employees, managers and, above all, citizens themselves, relatives and others, so that we can start building the welfare society again, from the bottom up. Is that still something the alternative backs up?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119155525	Yes, of course. After all, it is almost impossible not to like the idea, the experiments, the innovation and the desire for development that is in it. When it comes to the free municipalities' attempts, we would be delighted to see that the area of employment comes under, so that we can start experimenting with how much confidence is going to mean in the lives of our citizens, i.e. how much we can use trust instead of coercion when it, for example, comes about. is about the area of employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119155552	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119155553	After all, I have very, very great tricks about what we are starting now, with the seven municipalities, and I have not least, because I feel an amazing energy and also pride to be in it. But first of all, there is a very, very great amount of energy in order to make it succeed, and I think we are going to see a development of welfare that we in here have not actually been able to create, what is not really so strange, because most good ideas have to grow up from below and not the other way around. One can always wish for more, but I hope that in the coming period, when the corona releases its roof, we can agree to give these seven municipalities the very best conditions for pioneering in the next welfare project.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119155639	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119155640	Now it was not a question, but I would like to comment on it. I think that when we allow development to take place locally by means of social inventiveness and the experiences that are out there, where people work hand-on with the concrete problems and challenges on a daily basis, we come more often than when politicians try to devise solutions. So this is one of the plans that the government has launched, which we most like.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119155712	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119155716	I would really like to continue along the same lines. What is most important for the alternative here: to give municipalities the freedom to put together new solutions or to free citizens to choose other solutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210119155729	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119155730	That is a good question, but I do not really believe that the two things are mutually exclusive. If, for example, we do not know what to do. I would like to point out to the honourable Member that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations is a step in the right direction. If, for example, you're gonna have to... in writing. - (FR) If the case-handling staff are able to give back power over their own professional skills so that they can use their own professional skills in the dialogue with the citizens, they can ultimately give back to the citizen the responsibility for the citizen's own life. So I actually think it's connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119155802	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119155803	Well, I'm really glad to hear that, because in my optics, this is primarily about freeing people to put man before the system. But it is certainly also about all the talented people who sit around and work around with our common welfare, about really trusting their professionalism and trusting that they want the citizen the best, and about that, so I am glad someone agrees with me in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119155828	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119155829	Well, there we are very, very freedom-loving in the alternative. We are not socialists, but we are strongly opposed to economic inequality. We have in some other ways come up with some of the things that the Red parties also agree with, but we have this freedom-loving gene that makes us actually want more society and less state.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119155854	So thank you to the party leader of the alternative, Mr. Torsten Gejl. This brings the party leader's debate to an end. Before we move on to the next item, which is the second reading of L 135, I would ask all Members to leave the Chamber so that all the seats can be cleaned up. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 16.15.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119161502	The sitting is resumed. Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119161527	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 of a minority (DF, NB and LA), agreed by the committee that the bill is divided into three legislative proposals? Draft law amending the law on unemployment insurance, etc. and sickness benefit law. B. Draft law amending the law on unemployment insurance, etc. C. Draft law amending the Act on Active Social Policy. The division of the bill into three legislative proposals is hereby adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210119161552	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next sitting, which will then be put to the vote, is today at 8 a.m. 16.30.
