ParlaMint-DK_20210909090005	The meeting is open. Kristian Hegaard (RV) has informed me that he resigns as a member of the Folketing per year. 30 August 2021. The Enhedslisten's parliamentary group has informed me that it has appointed a member of the Danish Parliament, Christian Juhl, to the Board of Directors of the Danish Institute of Parties and Democracy. 1 September 2021 instead of Claus Thure Hastrup. The person concerned is then elected. From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter stating that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 21 August 2021, it was decided that the responsibility for dealing with a case concerning the Civil Service Fund's distribution of funds to the Association against Illegal Logging shall be transferred from the Minister of Justice to the Minister of Industry. The message will be printed in the Parliamentary Time (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 21 August 2021 provides that the responsibility for dealing with a case concerning the distribution of funds by the Civil Rights Fund to the Association against Illegal Logging shall be transferred from the Minister of Justice to the Minister of Industry, since the ability of the Minister of Justice and the Civil Service may be called into question when dealing with the case. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. The Mette Frederiksen Epidemic Committee has presented: Report on removing the categorization of corona (covid-19) as a social-critical disease 36). The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. Then I would like to mention that today's debate on Finance Law will be interpreted in sign language so that the deaf can follow the debate. The sign language interpretation can be seen directly on the Danish Parliament's website, ft.dk • and subsequently on demand.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909090126	Member of the Folketing Jeppe Bruus (S) applied for leave from 19 September 2021, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909090152	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Radical Left in Northern Zealand's Storkreds, Christina Thorholm, be approved as an ordinary member of the Folketing as from 31 August 2021, when Kristian Hegaard resigned his mandate per year. 30 August 2021. I have also received the recommendation that the second deputy of the Social Democratic Party of the Copenhagen Omregns Storkreds, Anne Sina, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 19 September 2021, on the occasion of Jep Bruus. It should be noted that the first deputy did not wish to take up this leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909090236	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 103 votes. Then I have the pleasure of being able to announce that all the restrictions we have had, including in this Chamber, in relation to corona per year. Today's date has ended, and that means that the poor platform should not be wiped off all the time, that is to say that we have returned to normal conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909090329	The debate is open. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. We need a little quiet in the Chamber, because now we are starting the negotiations. Here you go, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909090340	Thank you. I hope I will not take it personally that Members leave their seats in the Chamber. Thank you for the floor. In Rudkøbing and in Faaborg, the green transition is not just something you talk about. These are specific jobs for 160 men and women at the Dencam Composite. The company manufactures wing models used to make moulds for wind turbine wings. Until the Corona crisis hit, the company, which also provides solid profits, was in the process of securing future production with investment in new technology, among other things. a 52 m long milling machine that can grind wing models on a large scale and in all sizes, as the windmills that we set up all over the world grow bigger and bigger. All in all, it is a textbook example of how the green transition, if you combine it with investment, innovation and the latest technology, creates jobs in all parts of the country and for people with many different skills and education. All this stopped abruptly when the corona hit a year and a half ago. The company's service department, which had a 20-30 man around on assignments around the world, was forced home. Customers applauded as a result of the massive insecurity around the world pouch in. Almost six months passed, when everything was closed. Without resolute political support in the form of aid packages, companies would have been forced to fire 50 men. As Director Jens Andersen puts it about such a potentially violent firing round, you can't come back up again. Fortunately, the company has come up again and more than that. The prospects are so positive that in the coming months more green hands and heads will probably have to be employed on Langeland and on Funen. Dencam Composite is not only an economic sunshine story in a tough coronatid, the company's success is also a picture of Danish economy during and especially after the corona crisis. 60% of the top managers of the thousand largest companies in the country consider that their business has come out of the corona crisis strengthened, and that is not a coincidence. This is a direct consequence of the fact that we have an exceptionally competent Danish business community. This is a consequence of the fact that we did not hesitate for a second to crack down on the spread of infection. This is a consequence of the fact that the government, together with the broad majority here in the Folketing and together with the social partners, took massive action and pumped billions into the economy in order to hold hands under tens of thousands of jobs in tens of thousands of Danish companies. We made a choice to invest Denmark out of the crisis. Now we see the results of that choice. The Danish economy has in record time gone from a major decline to a solid recovery. We're in the middle of a boom. Denmark is one of the few countries in the OECD and the EU, where the economy is now greater and employment is higher than before the crisis. The number of Danes in employment is already higher than ever. This year, the Ministry of Finance expects the highest economic growth in 15 years to increase further into the working community. Already the curve for the long-term unemployed has been broken. This is exceptionally fast compared to previous crises. At the same time, it is both the Ministry of Finance and the Economic Expert Group's assessment that the Danish economy can put behind it the corona crisis without major and long-lasting damage. By choosing to invest Denmark out of the crisis, unlike what we did during the financial crisis, we have saved ourselves and future generations a huge and lasting economic loss. We have managed to do all this without punching a hole in the treasury. There were bourgeois commentators and bourgeois politicians who tried to paint scare scenarios about the orgy of debt and debt carpenters, but the fact is that Denmark went out of 2020 with the smallest public deficit across the EU. In fact, the value of the state's assets, such as our shares in Ørsted, is higher than the total debt of the state. In other words, we have a net worth. Last year the task was to invest Denmark out of the crisis, this year the task is another: we have to lighten the foot from the accelerator so that the economy does not overheat. That is why we are presenting a strict and responsible financial law to ensure that we have a stable and lasting recovery. Everyday life is back • it is reflected in the government's proposal. Because the government's historical fiscal efforts consisted predominantly of temporary measures and one-off investments, the expiry of these schemes provides a large part of the necessary tightening up. However, the government is also proposing to tighten up the more traditional part of fiscal policy. Despite a strict financial law, the government will ensure that the money for welfare comes with when happily more children and older people arrive. With its three first agreements with the municipalities on the economy of the municipalities, the government has raised the welfare framework more than was achieved with the ten previous combined. This is a course we want to pursue. Welfare should not again pay the highest price for the crisis, as it did after the financial crisis. In addition, there is room for few but important priorities. With the financial bill for next year, we are investing 1/2 billion. kr. in getting Denmark to hang better together. We want to move health care, our educational places and the police closer to more Danes in everyday life. We also propose, in advance of the negotiations on a new multi-year agreement for criminal services, to add more funds to the area so that together we can make an agreement that equips the criminal services to deal with an increasing number of inmates and also to deal with some inmates who are more hardened and negative in government than we have seen in the past. And the proposal provides for a negotiating reserve which can, for example, be used to strengthen the green transition or to strengthen welfare. My skilful and skilful colleague from the SF, Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen-Nielsen, has called the draft Finance Bill boring. Maybe it's not entirely wrong. But the proposal is also the responsible response in a situation where the economy is rushing out there. The proposal is a matter of due diligence. While the main aim of the financial bill is that the economy is not overheated, the aim of the reform trail is that Denmark should be both richer and greener and more skilful. Denmark has come through the economic crisis well, but to put it in football: we are not going home, we are going home. 45,000 young people are without both jobs and education. Too many women with a non-Western background are outside the labour market. Too many leave primary school without the necessary skills. The climate crisis requires investment. Businesses lack hands and heads. These are just some of the fundamental challenges that we must solve together. With our project • Denmark can more 1 • we will therefore invest 2.5 billion. kr. In training and qualification, 1 billion. kr. in climate investment, 1 billion. kr. in research and development at Danish companies, while at the same time strengthening the Danish model by raising the unemployment benefit rate at the beginning of the unemployment period for people who have a long link with the labour market. It is significant investment, but it is also investments that we can make only if we have the courage to prioritize if we roll back the skewest tax cuts from the red wine reform on the largest stock returns and capital income; if we reduce the graduating rate so that more new graduates can get to work so that we slow down the ever-increasing share of graduates we have in our unemployment benefit system; and if we can give priority to business support. We know, and I know that there are no parties other than us in the Social Democratic Party here in the Folketing who are happy with all the proposals. Conversely, I also believe that the vast majority of parties, the vast majority of Danes, can see themselves in parts of our proposal. And today I would like to thank all the parties of the Folketing for accepting our proposals in a constructive spirit, despite disagreements. I believe, and I hope, that this constructive approach will last throughout the negotiations. I hope it will. I believe we owe this to Denmark and the Danes. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909091313	Thank you. Now it is the case that with the rules on speaking time we have, there is a possibility of questions for up to 45 minutes. It will be approx. 15 Members who may have the floor for brief comments. First, it's sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909091328	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. After all, there were many different things you could throw yourself over. I shall then go over a subject which was not in place or on which the rapporteur did not say much, namely the whole question of immigration policy and also of an exit centre. After all, in the technical examination in the Committee on Finance, we have seen that no money has been allocated to a new exit centre in the government's Finance Act. Is this an indication that the government has abandoned the idea of setting up a new exit centre?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909091359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909091400	After all, the government has, as it will be, sir. Troel Lund Poulsen known, proposed a new exit center. It was the case that there was no support in the Folketing for that location, and that is why the exit centre, which we know today, with the location that we know, will continue. This is also reflected in the draft budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909091423	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909091424	Well, I realized that something happened at Langeland quite close to that windmill factory, which I think was discussed at the beginning of the speech. But it was more just to fully understand it: because the exit centre promised by the government and the Social Democratic Party was not to be set up on Langeland, plans for it have been abandoned. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909091449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909091450	I really think I answered both directly and perhaps also from this chair relatively briefly on the question earlier: the government has been through a thorough process in which we proposed a location of an exit centre. That was in line with what we had said during the election campaign. That location was not supported in the Parliamentary Chamber. We must take note of that. We are a minority government, which is a tradition of having in Denmark, and therefore that location cannot be implemented. Therefore, the exit centre structure must be as it is at present. It's a joint responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909091526	Then it's mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909091528	Thank you for that, and also thank you for your speech. After all, we have the budget law for 2022, and there are, of course, some good things, but I want to focus on some of what is missing. Following on from what the Left also offers, it is not the case that we would have done nothing for an exit centre; at least we have bought one that we do not need now for taxpayers' money. Throughout the night you bought a home over at Langeland, which you don't need. What does the government really think about when you don't have an exit center? After all, these are people who have done crime and who have been ordered to leave Denmark... they are still running around freely. The previous government and the Danish People's Party had made an agreement on how we could get more teams on where these people were, so that we could be sure where they were at night. We would also have made rules on how we could lock them up if they did not comply with the rules. We're still looking away now, almost three years after these people are running around in the community. Some of them have committed serious crimes, attempted murders and other things, yet they are still running around freely. It may well be that because one could specifically just find one municipality where there was a SF mayor, that is not a Social Democratic mayor, it should be there and that one was not allowed to do so. Can the rapporteur say a little about what the plans are?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909091634	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909091635	As I also said earlier, we did quite a thorough job in pointing out a location, and when we also made a purchase, it was to ensure that on the other side of the political debate there should not be a situation where we had to act at a price that would obviously be much higher because there was so much due diligence. But I also have to return to my answer, which I gave to Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen, for that is a little the same answer as Mr. René Christensen gets that we have presented a solution in relation to a new exit centre, but we must also note that the parties of the Folketing did not agree with that location, and therefore there can be no change. We don't have 90 seats. We put forward a proposal for which we must note that there was no support, and that is why the structure and geographical location of the building that is in relation to the exit centre situation is, of course, going on, and that is just a joint responsibility that Parliament must bear together.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909091740	Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909091741	It is appalling what to listen to down here in the Parliamentary Chamber. There was a proposal that the previous government and the Danish People's Party had put forward; that was not what they wanted. Then you come up with a proposal which you are almost sure you will not be able to get your support parties to vote in favour of, because you point precisely to an area where you know that at least one party of its support parties will be against it, and on Langeland too. I just want to point out that these people, and they're deep criminals, are still walking freely out there. They've got a verdict they've got a verdict to leave Denmark and yet this government chooses to let them walk around freely. It's not okay. That's why the government has a responsibility. The government has made a proposal that has not been a majority in favour. What, then, is the next thing the government will do: is it sitting on your hands? Is that what the rapporteur is saying?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909091823	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909091824	After all, these are two different things we are discussing here, that is to say, the location, on the one hand, and the fight that the current government is taking and which the previous government has taken on, namely the repatriation of criminal foreigners who are here on toiled residence. There I can just say that the government is working hard to get as many people sent home and get as many appointments in place as possible. This is a difficult battle, and I believe that previous governments will agree with me. In the second discussion, in relation to where the exit centre should be located, I do not recognise the picture that we could have foreseen that it could not be implemented. We could have foreseen resistance, because there will be no matter where an exit centre is located.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909091900	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen-Nielsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909091902	Thank you. I am also reasonably sure that calling it the world's dullest financial law would be a praise to the government and the governing party. But now you can step on the brakes in many different ways... you don't have to stop investing in green conversion or welfare. And I'm not saying that's what the government does, but you don't have to do that there. One might also say that now we really want to take the lead in finding a suitable rent for green taxes and CO2 Since there is so little content in the budget law, we have to talk about other things, and that is also what the rapporteur himself is doing in relation to referring to the reform programme that has been played out. And regardless of the fact that there are many good elements, we believe from the SF that the climate is simply absent. It has become such a somewhat half-forgotten crisis here in the wake of corona. Young people need to know that we are doing everything we can to ensure their future as well. I would therefore like to ask: what would the rapporteur say that the governing party is doing for the climate this autumn?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092023	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092024	I would say that if you look at the Finance Act, we have jointly made agreements for well over 50 billion. DKK, both on energy, on green tax reform and on green road transport. These are agreements which are also financed by this Finance Act and which will be financed by financial laws in the future. We have also gathered as Parliament had the most ambitious climate objective in the world, and in 2 years we have reached half-way in meeting that climate ambition. So to speak of the fact that the climate has been forgotten, I do not agree, but I agree that we still owe answers; I agree that we still have to pursue a policy together, put forward proposals that will enable the young generation, who have an expectation and a legitimate expectation that we will take care of the planet on which they will live, to receive answers as regards the climate struggle. And one of the answers is, for example, the negotiations that are taking place in the Ministry of Food at the moment, where we must ensure that agriculture also contributes to reducing their CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092128	Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092129	Thank you. And now agriculture is just a painful child, you might call it, in the climate debate. It is certainly an industry which accounts for a very large part of the emissions. And I think we all agree that we must have sustainable agriculture in the future, but do we also have that with the agreement that is being reached? - Sir... Christian Rabjerg Madsen guarantees that the emissions that agriculture represents are also the bill they have to pay on the basis of a polluter-pays principle? Or do they get a discount that others just have to pay other industries or future generations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092204	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092205	The thing about providing guarantees in relation to an ongoing course of negotiations, I think, should be a little cautious. But what I can say, and this is also clear from our proposal, is that we have put forward a proposal which, on the one hand, ensures significant reductions in agricultural CO2 This is the balance that is in play.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092240	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092242	How much has the government set aside to negotiate a new teacher training?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092249-2	As far as the primary school is concerned, even in very close cooperation with Mrs Lotte Rod's party, we have set aside, I think, up to 800 million. kr. in the previous Finance Act for a better primary school. And in relation to the reform trail that we are now putting forward, there is also a considerable amount of billions, namely 2.5 billion. kr., to strengthen our education sector broadly. We have not put labels on that money and we are ready to enter into a discussion with the parties of the Folketing on how that money might be spent in order to get the best result from the very substantial investment. One of the challenges that I think is the most serious and that we should address with that money is the fact that too many young people and children get out of our primary school with no skills, reading skills, writing skills, arithmetic skills that enable them to complete a youth education. That is something that needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092352	Mrs. Lotte Rod, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092353	However, when we talk about the fact that politics is broken, I think that the government here should think about whether we do not make politics a little too much theater when we do not set aside money for the negotiations we are about to start now. I mean, I have no need for the Radical Left to stand in front of the glass door at the Ministry of Finance and fight for more money for teacher training. In fact, I think it is rather irresponsible that the government itself should not set aside money for the negotiations that we are about to embark on.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092419	I do not think there is anything untrue about putting forward, for example, a reform package which ensures that, prior to negotiations on teacher training, but also prior to negotiations on education at all, we actually have a very large amount of money that we can invest. I think this is actually quite a serious break-up, so that we do not dispose of the money until we actually know if the money is at home, and the debate that Mrs Lotte Rod is pointing out here is one of the debates that must help to strengthen the area as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092452	Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092454	Thank you. In his speech, the rapporteur says that welfare should not have to pay again for the crisis, with a reference to how the VK government has dealt with the financial crisis in the past. I very much agree with that and I am very pleased that we chose to go another way, but then we stand here now. We stand here where the Social Democratic Party still chooses to make a frontal attack on the daily allowance, where, contrary to what the government has said in the past, it attacks the financial security of newly educated and newly trained people, and where, quite contrary to what the rapporteur has just said in the Chair, it will not strengthen the benefit system. How can the Social Democratic Party, on the one hand, say that this is not a declaration of distrust for young people that they are lazy, that they will not contribute, that they will not use their education and take a job, and, on the other hand, be quite serious about saying that giving young people an income of DKK 9,500 that will make them get a lower disposable income than when they were in education should get them into work?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092559	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092600	First of all, I welcome the recognition of our crisis policy. What we are doing now is consolidating our economy in a situation where unemployment is the same as it was when we entered the crisis. Employment is higher, the economy is better. This differs considerably from what was done after the financial crisis, which tightened up in a situation where unemployment was hard. This meant that the crisis got stuck. I'm glad we agree on that. As far as the debate on welfare is concerned, it is, after all, two-part. In part, we have among other things. Together with Enhedslisten we have been pleased with the strengthening of welfare in general, but I do not agree with the characteristics given here by our policy in the area of unemployment benefits. You have to see things in context. For example, what we do in the area of unemployment benefit is to make it permanent that you can get 110%. If you are receiving continuing training, you will be entitled to the benefit rate. What we are doing, for example, is to raise the daily allowance rate you can get at the beginning with a significant amount of money, namely DKK 5 000, for those who have been on the labour market for a long time. Then it is true that at the same time we are lowering the graduation rate, but of course we are still away at a figure of just over 3,000 kr. About what you get in su. And that is a consequence of the fact that graduates fill more in the benefit system.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092709	Thank you. Then it's Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092710	Even the example of 110%. In the case of cash benefits, those who are under the age of 30 are not covered either. This is again an example of trying to dig gaps within the benefit system. The rapporteur says that things must be seen in this context. How is that supposed to help young people pay their rent? After all, their disposable income has been reduced after they have finished their education. And then I just think you should stop using the numbers in that way. After all, the number of graduates has doubled since 2009. Unemployment is particularly low right now. In addition, it is clear that not everyone is retiring right now; not everyone is going on maternity leave right now; employers are not looking for all employees within a year ago right now. It is clear that it will take some time for people to get hired. And when we have a lot of people who are just finishing up right now, it's clear that it looks like that with the numbers. Why is it that you bring it forward like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092759	Thank you. Then we will have an answer from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092800	But when I talk about seeing things in context, it is because I am trying to answer the question and say what we have done within the benefit system and, overall, I believe that, if we look at government policy, this is a very clear strengthening. As far as young people are concerned, there is, of course, also a significant investment in the education which will enable young people to enter the labour market and get a good job. So I would again call for it to be seen in a context. In relation to the question of graduating, we cannot simply ignore the fact that it has gone from 10% to one out of every four of our benefit recipients is graduating. We have to do what we can to ensure that the people who have received education free of charge come out and use it. It is also for their benefit.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092843	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092845	Thanks for the speech. When I read the government's draft budget, what struck me the most was how boring it was that there were no savings proposals. We have public expenditure for 1,200 billion. kr., i.e. DKK 1.2 million. Is there no place at all where the Socialists think that we could spend a little less money here? I think it is reckless to skip priorities and either just keep everything in order or increase expenditure. I think it is a little disrespect for taxpayers' money that you do not try every year to find some places where you think: here perhaps we could settle for a little less of taxpayers' hard-earned money.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909092936	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov for that question. I would like to interpret the comment that it is a boring financial law, as a praise and support for a strict financial policy. As far as our proposal is concerned, I am sure that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov has read it, but perhaps you should have read the part that is actually about, for example, consulting savings. This is an area where, year by year, we have told municipalities, regions and the state that we need to spend less money on management consultants, in other words less money on consultants, so that we can strengthen the welfare that is more close to citizens. If you are looking for priorities, I also think you should read Denmark more In Denmark, where we say very clearly that we can make Denmark stronger, more fair and more green and can invest in education, but only if we are ready to prioritise; ready to prioritise our business support, roll back tax reliefs given to the people who get the highest return on shares, and ready to give priority to graduates' daily allowances. So I think there is a balance between both investment and priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093042	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093043	Now I will try to stick to the financial bill, which is what we are discussing today and which is the state budget for 2022. If some reforms are then made next door, which will apply after 2022, then that is fine, but now we have a budget for the state for 2022, and there is still something beating me. It is true that there are some programmes in progress, for example, you will try to save something on some consultants. It was already in progress last year, so there is nothing new in it. That is why I am thinking: it has been a whole year; has it not been discovered during that year that perhaps there were some places where some money could be saved compared to when the Finance Act was presented for last year? Otherwise, I don't think you're looking hard enough when you have such a large budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093124	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093124-2	In other words, it is true that the tool for consultants is the same, but the savings on consultants will increase year by year because we continue to make demands on ourselves in the state, but also on municipalities and regions in order to find the savings potential so that we can strengthen our welfare. I would like to say two things: when Conservatives appear, we are happy to discuss proposals, including proposals that can provide more money to invest in some of what we can agree on. But, on the other hand, this is also a government which, unlike the previous bourgeois government, is concerned with strengthening welfare, and this is also reflected in the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093157	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093159	Thank you. I am here with the Finance Act, and it says that 80 million will be spent. kr., which will be sent to Afghanistan to the Afghan police. And the police in Afghanistan are the Taliban, or at least the Taliban. I think we can agree that this is the situation now. And then I just ask why the government wants to give 80 million. kr. to the police down in Afghanistan, that is, to the Taliban.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093222	As a world community and as a country, we have a considerable interest in ensuring stability both internally in Afghanistan and also in the countries outside, ensuring that we are actually helping those people who are currently on the run. The most important lesson of the Syria conflict was that when war broke out in Syria, a huge number of unhappy people fled to the vicinity. There they were actually during the period when we were able to provide proper schools and okay living conditions. At one point, it stopped payment, and then the refugees moved against Europe. We must not make that mistake again. That is why we have a duty to ensure stable conditions within Afghanistan and also to ensure that there are conditions around Afghanistan that make these people not move. Whether there is a development at the moment on the ground in Afghanistan that means we have to look at that appropriation again, we need to discuss it. But that is what is the main issue and the reason for our priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093329	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093330	Because it says directly that it is in order to guarantee the legal certainty of the people. And now the government is saying 80 million. kr. to the Taliban, which is responsible for the police in Afghanistan, will ensure citizens' legal certainty in Afghanistan. Really? The Taliban, the citizens' legal certainty? I think those who speak against the system down there, for example. women, has a slightly different view of legal certainty than that of the government and the Taliban apparently.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093404	Now I don't think we should do this any more silly than it has to be. We will, of course, make sure that we do not pay out to regimes and organisations that spend the money to suppress their people in the future. This will also be the case when we look at how we actually implement this financial law. I fully agree and have followed it closely and take it extremely seriously that the situation in Afghanistan is changing day by day in this time. The situation on the ground will be reflected in the way we actually implement the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093443	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093445	We are discussing a financial bill, which is the budget of the state for 2022, and that budget is based on some expectations about how the Danish economy is, based on the structures that the Danish economy has, and the business environment we have, etc. That is why in the past, especially when there has been a blue majority in the Folketing, there has been a tradition that you are not only spending money together, but also working together to secure the conditions for there to be some money to spend. There I understand that there is now the practice here that the red majority in the Folketing, when we make finance laws, can only use When you have to ensure that there is an economy in the future too, it is like delegated to some other negotiations where the blue can be part of it. Because you can't do it with the red majority. Is that a good way to do that, that is to say, when you have responsibility as a majority here in the Danish Parliament, you only take responsibility for spending money, not to make sure that there is a good economy to use as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093550-2	I do not think this is a true picture of the negotiations we have had, and I do not think it will be a true picture of the negotiations we are having. Without prejudging the very important negotiations that we are going to have in the wake of played-out Denmark can more I ■, I believe, and it will be my general expectation that it will be the case that the parties that take responsibility and I am glad that there seem to be many parties that will say: this requires priorities, this will not be easy, but on the one hand we are ready to contribute to that, because it is the right thing to do, but on the other hand we will also help to spend some of the money it provides on, for example, investing in education and the climate. So without prejudging anything, I think that would be the approach of Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's party. I think that would be the approach of most parties in the Folketing. And in line with that approach, the government has a responsibility to organise a process of negotiation, and we will try to do so in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093647	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093648	However, it has been made very clear by the government and the Minister of Finance that providing the right framework for society, the right structures to ensure a good economy in the future, simply does not belong in negotiations on a Finance Act with the Enhedslisten and the SF and the Alternative, etc. This must be done in a broader constellation where the blue parties are involved. So what I am asking is: is it really a good way to go to the polls to say: we would like to have support for a red majority so that we can form a red government, but those who then want that support can just as well not get ready to do what is necessary in order for there to be an economy in the future too? This has to be done with the opposition.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093726	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093727	Again, I have to say, I just don't own the fortune-teller that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen apparently owns, so he can see into the course of negotiations that we are about to embark on, neither in relation to the path of reform nor in relation to the path of finance law. What I can say, however, on behalf of the government, is that we are going to invite widely both to the discussion on the Finance Act and to the debate on reform. In fact, I used a significant part of my speech to say that I am pleased about this, and I sincerely believe that all parties, including those who can see thistles in the playout, have taken constructively our initiative. This suggests that we will have good negotiations both in the financial law track and in the reform trail.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093805	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093806	Thank you very much. The rapporteur is starting this debate on financial law with a good story from the wind turbine industry. And it's nice to hear and nice to start with a story about something that benefits the climate. In this light, I would like to ask whether this financial law proposal envisages an agreement that is greener than last year. So, is there more money spent on climate, environment and nature in this finance bill than last year?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093834	It is probably a little early to say in fact, because a substantial part of the Finance Act is, after all, the negotiating reserve of 1.2 billion. kr., how good parties, for example Mr. Torsten Gejl's party can come in and take responsibility for how we prioritise that money. Having said that, there is, after all, in the stomach of the Finance Act a continuous financing of the very significant green conversion that we are undertaking in a number of areas. Green road transport and tax reform are some of the areas that we need to finance and which we are also funding here. Then it is the case that at the moment we in the Ministry of Food also have a very ambitious negotiating process on how we can switch agriculture so that in the future we will continue to produce good, healthy food and create jobs, but do so in a way that reduces CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093923	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093924	I don't see it as a yes. I did not see what the rapporteur said as a 'yes' to the fact that this financial law is certainly greener than the one we had last year. Then what I would like to ask the rapporteur is what it is in the report of the UN Panel on Climate Change that reassures the rapporteur so much that it will not guarantee that more money will be spent on climate change this year. What is it that reassures the rapporteur so much that we are dropping down on climate action?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909093953	There is nothing in the UN Climate Report that calms me on the contrary! It is disturbing reading, and it is reading that makes us have to act, and it is also reading that tells me that it was right when we made the most ambitious climate objective in the world that we are now meeting together. It is also a report which underlines the need for us to continue to give priority to the climate area, and thus it is also a report which supports the fact that we have set aside billions on the path of reform to continue investing in the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909094028	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, KD. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909094030	Yeah, sorry I got to laugh a little sooner, but to call 1.2 billion. kr. I think that out of the overall financial law as an essential part of the Finance Act, a little bit is an addition. But peace be to it. When you are a financial rapporteur and you have to defend a financial law, you stand up there and have to answer all sorts of questions that stick in all sorts of directions, but it has its own beauty that just when they stick in all sorts of directions, it is because the government is somewhat luxurious in the swing, because then there is no focus on individual matters. I do not want to be better than the others, so I am taking a whole new area which is not at all affected in the debate so far, namely psychiatry. What I read from the Finance Act is that 124 to 125 million have been set aside. kr. If I am wrong, may the rapporteur correct me, but does the rapporteur think that this figure is particularly ambitious, not least in relation to children and young people at a time when we know that many people are pangling psychically on top of the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909094136	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909094137	I am very happy to answer questions, especially from Mr. Jens Rohde, but also from the entire Folketing, although they are in different directions. Sir. Jens Rohde is aware, in relation to the financial law process, that what lies during the negotiations is a very large financial law, which has a number of expenditure that is predefined or at least close to it, because we have an incrementalist system in which we do not change the entire budget law from year to year. Therefore, an amount which is perhaps not very large in the overall budget law may well be quite a large amount in terms of the part of the budget law on which we actually have a discussion. That is, of course, the rather objective explanation for the sum of 1.2 billion. kr. well can be a significant amount. As far as psychiatry is concerned, I agree with Mr. Jens Rohde in that we have a significant challenge and that the corona crisis has not reduced that challenge. We set aside 600 million in previous Finance Act. kr. to lift the psychiatry, so we have done something, and we have also said that we want a 10-year plan of action in the psychiatric field, but we need to do more.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909094241	Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909094242	Yes, yes, but everything is relative, as you say when you discuss sizes, and peace be with it. I would just point out that the negotiating reserve has hardly ever been as small as it is at present. But it is possible that we can negotiate it. Will the government meet one, should we say the desire to spend some more money on psychiatry for next year? Then we will always be able to find out where it is going to be, because after all it is a broad area, and I also recognise the efforts that are being made. Will such a desire be met with an open mind in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909094320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909094321	After all, when the negotiating reserve is as it is this year, it is because it reflects the fact that we are presenting a strict financial law. That is the necessary response to a boom, so that we have a stable recovery. After all, the government has set out our priorities and then we have a negotiating reserve and we have no resistance whatsoever to spending more money on psychiatry. On the contrary, I think it is a sympathetic proposal and we would like to discuss it. However, it is clear that new proposals require new funding. That is the case, and this year in particular, it is crucial because we need to take the foot off the accelerator financially.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909094351	Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909094353	Thank you. After all, this government has been very good at spending money, and that is why we were delighted when we finally had a reform proposal that gave 10,000 sets of hands and 10 billion. kr. extra. However, can the rapporteur confirm that it still gives a negative result on the BP in 2030 of 4 billion? kr., because you've done so many things so far, where you've pulled money out of the Treasury? Then the rapporteur can confirm that, overall, this government has delivered a negative result of 4 billion towards 2030. kr. On the bnp growth?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909094432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909094433	What we have said is that when, for example, we withdraw people from structural employment in connection with Arnepension, we will also take initiatives that oppose it, and that is what we are doing now. I just think that, for the sake of seriousness, we should consider what Arne's proposal is actually for a proposal. What is the main reason why we will see an increase in structural employment in the coming years is that we have agreed with each other and the Danes that the retirement age should be increased. The prerequisite for making the agreement in 2006 that the retirement age should rise was for there to be an early retirement wage. It removed the bourgeois parties, and when it was removed, there was also a considerable risk of removing popular support for an increase in retirement age. We have changed this by making Arnepensionen, so that we both ensure that worn-out people can retire, and that at the same time we contribute to the future of there will be popular support for an increasing retirement age, which is the foundation of the Danish economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909094539	Louise Schack Elholm, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909094540	That was such a typical politician's answer, where I didn't get an answer to what I asked. For the rapporteur would not agree with me or deny that, overall, it is minus 4 billion. kr., you deliver in 2030 from this government on the bnp development. So the rapporteur must deal with that. Then it is a good thing that the rapporteur is then trying to shoot at things which the party itself has supported at the time. But could the rapporteur perhaps answer the question instead? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909094603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909094604	But when we discuss structural development in this country, we are discussing what is underneath, namely the structural supply of labour. And I am just saying that we have committed ourselves to the fact that if we take our hands out of structural employment, we will also put our hands in. We then make initiatives, investment in education, investment in green technology and infrastructure and in a large number of other areas which make us richer, so we have an ambition to get richer. I just think that in discussing this, the Left should not only relate to the figures, but should look at a larger and overall whole, in relation to what is causing structural employment to increase, and that is to a large extent the increasing retirement age.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909094643	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909094645	Thank you. I have just one historical correction: no one has abolished the early retirement. And it could perhaps be helpful if the Socialist Financial Rapporteur could tell us who was the Minister for Employment and put forward the bill that limited the early retirement, just so we just have it in place. I do not think that was quite clear from the answer given by the rapporteur. And then I will sort of continue on that track: when the government says that Denmark can do more, can the rapporteur confirm that the consequence of the policy pursued and one for the implementation of what the government has presented is that Denmark can do less by 2030 than if this government had not had power in the last two years?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909094736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909094737	What is the truth behind the somewhat teasing question is that, prior to the 2015 elections, we chose not to make, let us call it a de facto replacement of the post-retirement wage. We lost that election on that issue. However, we chose to do a large number of other sensible things, but accept that there was no majority in favour of our position in terms of post-retirement pay. That is why, of course, we had to live out what was a majority in the Folketing who wanted. It is here in 2021 no revelation, as such the yellow beams are brought out by the Extra Bladet or B.T. I would like to confirm that this was the case, but then it is not a major revelation either. As far as our proposals are concerned, I can confirm that, when we pull down structural employment, we are also committed to strengthening it, and, moreover, we are spending the money that will result from it to invest in making Denmark richer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909094843	Torsten Schack Pedersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909094844	It was then not more correct that the rapporteur said it was in 2015. It was in 2011. And now, when the rapporteur finds it so difficult to tell those who are listening to the debate that it was the current Prime Minister who was signing the bill as Minister for Employment, I just think it should be said, just so that you do not try to run away from what you yourself have been involved in. On the specific question that we can do more and that if we are to be able to do more, it is because prosperity has grown, the rapporteur answers completely. The fact is, and I would like the rapporteur to confirm this, that bnp is 4 billion. kr. lower with this government's policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909094924	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909094926	Well, I actually thought I gave a very detailed description of how the process was about the early retirement discussion. I'm just saying in all silence, I think it's relatively well-described how it hung together. I'd be happy to give you the description again, if that's what you want. As far as the discussion about our prosperity is concerned, the discussion underneath it is, of course, the question of structural employment, and there I am just saying that we have now taken one initiative: Denmark can do more in terms of getting rid of something. There will be further action where we take Denmark further.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909094959	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909095000	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I'd like to follow up on that, as sir. Troels Lund Poulsen and Mr. René Christensen mentioned this centre at Langeland, which the government almost suddenly bought out of the blue for 13.5 million. kr. It has puzzled us very much in the Danish People's Party that one buys a place completely without asking the Danish Parliament, without any premonitions of whether one could get a majority for it, without talking to those on Langeland who were exposed to this very, very boring experience, that they suddenly had to have a center with deep criminals on their island. So I'd like to hear Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen: Will you do the same again? Well, I understood that it had been done this way, because otherwise the place would be more expensive, so the method chosen was quite right. But do you really want to do the same thing again and put the Longlanders or others on top of this treatment?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909095105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909095106	I think sir... Peter Skaarup, who has been a long time in politics, is well aware that regardless of the location of an exit centre, this will cause considerable and very understandable local resistance. I also believe that Mr. Peter Skaarup will understand, on the basis of such an ordinary negotiating situation, that if we had not secured the building prior to putting our location proposal forward, then the building price would probably have been significantly higher afterwards. That's why it was timely care to make the purchase before. We must take note of the fact that a majority could not then be formed for the place in the Folketing. This means that the entire Parliament is responsible for continuing the current structure of the exit centre area, including in terms of geographical locations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909095209	Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909095210	I think there are two things in this. Now we still have a huge problem at Kærshovedgård, where, as some say, there is a large drug centre consisting of criminals who should have been sent home to their home countries a long time ago. At the same time, therefore, we have a situation in which the spokesman of the governing party in the Danish Parliament says today that they did so in this way, otherwise the place on Langeland would have become more expensive. But let me just say here that a valuer says it costs 5.3 million. kr. To buy what they say this year. You end up paying 13.5 million. kr. How can this be a sensible decision? How expensive should it be, Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, if you chose to do so later?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909095252	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909095253	First of all, I would like to say that I fully recognise that at Kærshovedgård we have some challenges with some deeply criminal people who should be sent home. And Mr. Peter Skaarup knows, of course, that the present government, following on from other governments, where Mr. Peter Skaarup's party was parliamentary basis, do what we can to get these people home. Because if you have been deprived of your citizenship because of serious crime, you have to go home. This does not change the fact that the location we proposed could not be implemented, and therefore these people must stay at Kærshovedgård. With regard to the purchase and the considerations which led up to it, I think I have explained this in very detail.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909095333	Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909095335	Thank you. Of course, when you commit crime, you have to answer for your actions, and I assume that the Socialists are firmly committed to their consistent legal policy, which very often means that we need more prison places. After all, such a policy has consequences, and it is felt in criminal justice right now, when you have an historically high number of inmates and very, very few hands, fewer and fewer, to solve the tasks. The employees simply disappear; they quit; the students cannot maintain; the rehabilitation is broken; the employees pay a very, very high price with their health. One in four police officers now have symptoms of ptsd. That is why I simply cannot understand why a bent penny has not been set aside for the criminal services in this draft budget. Where's the money that's gonna get the D.A. right? In 2017, the Prime Minister promised 0.5 billion. kr. to the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909095443	Thank you. Then we'll get answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909095443-2	I fully agree with the questioner that we have considerable challenges in the field of criminal justice, and I also used part of my rapporteur's speech to say some of what the questioner is now repeating, namely that we have a challenge with more inmates and also with inmates who are more negative in government, more hardened criminals than we have seen in the past. And there is no doubt that the behaviour of the inmates has negative consequences for our criminal services staff. That is also why one of the only additional new priorities in a narrow and tight financial law is to allocate money to precisely criminal justice, so that, with the multi-year agreement, we ensure that we have an economic foundation to stand on before those negotiations when we have to solve some of the problems that the questioner has fought for in large parts of his political life, but also very precisely and rightly point out here, and I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909095547	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909095548	But no more money has been set aside. Money has been set aside, so the budget is about the status quo; in fact, it is going to fall in recent years. So that's not what can get more hands out in the D.C. I'm really worried. I do not know if the rapporteur knows, but in some places there are now staff-free departments. I'm just trying to think about what that means. In some places you just round because you no longer have the power to fit the many inmates. I simply cannot understand why we can make such a fine police settlement, but when it comes to criminal justice, there are no money trees. How can this be connected?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909095625	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909095626	What is the situation in our Finance Act is that we have a funding profile that is downward in the area of criminal justice. That is where we ensure that, even before the negotiations begin, we have a foundation that allows the negotiations to start with an economy based on the same level as there is now. So we add money to the area in the Finance Act. If, in addition, we have a desire to do more in the budget negotiations, then we must make those wishes known. We have a negotiating reserve that we can talk about, and there is no doubt that Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt is right about the fact that there are challenges in criminal justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909095702	It is the case that we have almost spent our speaking time. The last person to speak will come to the other side. I know that a lot of people have asked to speak, but these are the rules we have in place to end this part of the debate. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909095717	I'll come like the raisin in the sausage end. Thank you, President. Thanks for a good speech. In the Radical Left, we also welcome the fact that we have come so well out of the Corona crisis in economic terms. It could also be that it is because there are some very skilled and adaptable companies. That is why when I hear the Minister for Employment attacking the Danish business community's desire for international labour with the words "and now I quote freely after memory: Yes, yes, then they want to have some cheap labour." I would like to hear the Financial Rapporteur for Social Democracy: is it really the case that all people who have come from abroad and work here in Denmark and contribute to our economy are just cheap labour and that it is kind of immoral for companies to have taken those people in?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909095810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909095812	I mentioned three reasons why we have got through the crisis well, and the first reason I mentioned was that we have a fucking competent industry, so in this area we cannot squeeze a piece of paper between Mr. Andreas Steenberg and myself. I fully agree that we have a competent business community. Having said that, I also agree with the Radicals that we have a huge challenge in relation to Danish companies needing smart hands and skillful heads. It is a challenge that we must solve. When we disagree with the Radicals that the threshold should be further reduced, it is because if we lower it further, then our skilled labour market will come into a very tough wage competition with some countries where the wage level for skilled workers is significantly below what we see in Denmark, and we do not want that. I think we should also say to companies that we have a European labour market where there are perhaps 10-15 million unemployed, which can also be done to get in if you need it. In addition, in Denmark there is a considerable labour market reserve of Danes who are unemployed and who we need to get into the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909095919	Sir. Andreas Steenberg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909095920	Thank you for your answer. I interpret the answer in such a way that it is not all foreigners who work in Denmark who are just cheap labour, as the Minister for Employment said. If we look at the current arrangements and ignore whether they need to be changed, we can see that a great many companies are being refused and that processing times are increasing, and this means that companies are not using the schemes that exist. Is this something that the Social Democrats will be ready to look at in these financial law negotiations? For something would suggest that there is simply a lack of staff to deal with cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909095959	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909100000	On the basis of the fact that we have different views on the limit, we have to discuss whether there are matters on the more bureaucratic side of the desk that should be looked at. These are proposals that we have in our Finance Act, also with the in mind that we have a Finance Act which has few initiatives because we need to lighten our feet from the accelerator. But radicals are being invited to the financial law negotiations, and there you can play in with whatever wishes you have, and then we will discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909100035	Then we say thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen it, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909100047	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. After all, with a budget bill, the government sets the framework for the direction they think Denmark should take in the next year. And that is why, unfortunately, I was also able to see that the government's draft budget, at least when I received it a week ago, was completely devoid of any idea of how to solve one of the greatest challenges facing the Danish economy now, namely the lack of labour. Fortunately, there was to be more on the way, because on Tuesday the government finally presented the first government bids on measures to secure more hands and heads in the labour market. I would like to acknowledge that we have been waiting for this for a long time, and that is why we have reason to say to the government that we look forward to discussing this further. Although there are good proposals in the new proposal, and although the government has been inspired and, at least, I can see, has recycled the Liberals' proposal to reduce the graduation rate, increase the deduction for research and development costs and to effect labour obligations for unemployed immigrants, the trees do not grow into the sky anyway. Unfortunately, the government's ambitions are limited to closing the gap between the loss in employment of 10,000 people and perhaps even just over 10,000 people caused by government policy. And apparently the government believes that it is also a good idea to raise taxes again, this time, by raising taxes on entrepreneurship. The lack of labour is serious, and I would also like to acknowledge here today that the Socialist financial rapporteur has just reflected that discussion. The fact that we do not agree on all the solutions is something we must discuss. But that is true now and here, and it is true in the long term, and it is true in virtually all sectors. Hotels and restaurants can't get employees. For hotels, eight out of ten report a shortage of labour, and for construction, the lack of labour has not been higher since 2006. We also face a challenge with a shortage of skilled and highly specialised labour both in industry and in the IT sector. This is a challenge that we must take very seriously. For our companies must say no to orders when they do not have access to the labour they need. This means that they lose competitiveness, and thus we lose growth and prosperity, which is the prerequisite for prioritising the green transition and strengthening of our common welfare. Indeed, calculations from Danish Industry show that the lack of employees costs Denmark approx. 13,5 billion kr. billions a year that could otherwise have gone to prioritise everything we want with our society: better welfare, money for the green transition and greater freedom for Danes. For the Left, it is absolutely crucial that we tackle the acute challenge of labour shortages and we believe that it should be resolved here and now. That is the prerequisite for us to be able to afford to give priority to everything we want. During the autumn, the Left will, as we always do, present our financial law priorities for 2022. Our proposal will contain concrete proposals on how to increase employment. However, we have already presented a number of proposals: we have presented proposals to reduce the graduation rate and increase the employment allowance so that it can pay better to work; we will increase the recruitment of international labour on decent and fair pay conditions, so that Danish companies have greater access to skilled labour; we will introduce a duty to work for refugees and immigrants and reduce the benefits to especially unemployed immigrants, so that more of them will become part of the working community. With the Left Finance Act priorities for 2022, we will be putting the ambition to increase structural employment above what the government is proposing. We do so because we think it is necessary to ensure increased prosperity for the benefit of Danish society, and we will provide concrete answers to how we achieve that ambition, because standstill does not make Denmark richer. The status quo is not the answer to Denmark's challenges. The Left has greater ambitions for Denmark. It is not only when it comes to labour that the government lacks ambition for Denmark. Unfortunately, the government's proposal does not deliver on the green transition either. In fact, here I thought that the seriousness had come to the fore. After all, we see and feel the changes, and the natural disasters of summer around Europe have only made it more tangible that it is a reality that calls for action. The government's draft budget does not contain a single proposal to reduce CO2 This is what we see with the current agricultural and food negotiations, which may not be so topical in the sense that they have been taking place for almost 8 months now, but just as far as that is concerned, there is a risk that the playout, as it is now on the table, will cost thousands of jobs throughout Denmark. Agriculture & Food estimates that at least 14 000 jobs in the food sector will be affected. It is not a green conversion, but a relocation of CO2 because, for example, if we are going to do so, we are going to do so. If Danish agriculture moves to Eastern Europe, it is not the case that global demand for food stops for that reason, in fact the forecasts point to an increase in global demand for food. So climatewise, it makes absolutely no sense. That is why I do not share the premise that one can only be a green party if one is willing to send good jobs to other countries that take the climate less seriously. This is basically completely wrong. Denmark is the world's best agricultural country, and we produce some of the world's most climate-efficient food, which we must develop, we must not dismantle them. We're gonna be a pioneering country. We must show the rest of the world that green conversion can go hand in hand with growth and new opportunities and high quality of life. It will help inspire the rest of the world. Because in the Left we believe that when we say that we give priority to the green transition, we also do so with action. That is also why we have proposed to allocate 1.7 billion. kr. For a new permanent green room for manoeuvre we can spend money every year on the green transition. It takes more than talk to solve Denmark's problems, it requires concrete political solutions and will. The solutions and the will of the Left. We will make it easier for companies to attract the labour force they need: we will ensure that more immigrants become part of the working community we owe it to them and not least to Danish society; we will secure more hands and heads on the labour market by lowering the graduation rate. We will make Denmark richer so that in the future we can afford to invest in our common welfare and green conversion. We look forward to the negotiations both on the 2022 Finance Act, but not least also on the reform trail that the government has now presented. How many debates there will be and where they will take place, for good reasons, we do not know so much about, but we turn up and look forward to seeking political influence because we share some of the ambitions that we can see in the government's proposals, and we look forward to negotiating with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909100909	Thank you. Then we have 45 minutes in the vicinity of short remarks. First, it's sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909100917	Thank you for the floor, thank you for your speech and thank you for the constructive approach taken by the Left in negotiating the important reform proposal that we need to get going. I would like to ask you about the fact that in the past year, the Left has, after all, tried to draw some of a frightening picture of the government's economic policy during the Corona crisis. Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen himself accused the government of debting Denmark over the edge of the abyss. And at the opening debate last year, Mrs Sophie Løhde claimed that we have a government that will apparently lead Denmark back to Anker Jørgensen's time. According to the same report, this involved galloping unemployment, high public deficits and financial responsibility. These are violent accusations, but they are also accusations which are in a fairly significant contrast to the economic situation that we have, following the policy of the government. It is a debt that is the lowest in Europe. It is an employment and growth that is roaring out there. Does this give rise to self-examination by the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101020	In other words, it gives us cause to rejoice that we have not ended up where we predicted that we would end up, as in the past under Anker Jørgensen's economic policy. That doesn't mean we can't end up there. We have just been able to see today that what the government is proposing is, of course, as the rapporteur also tried to reply, Mr President. Torsten Schack Pedersen under the question that the Social Democracy and Government make Denmark 4 billion. kr. poorer by 2030 with the policy pursued. We think this is wrong. However, we welcome the fact that, through joint help, we forget the Socialist Financial Rapporteur, so unfortunately we have held our hands under Danish society with numerous agreements. After all, it is only gratifying that the Danish economy has not been hit as hard as much at times as suggested. It is rare for me to have the opportunity to praise the Minister for Finance, but I think he said something wise not for once, but perhaps close to him when he presented the Finance Act, where he said that even in the wildest imagination one could imagine that Danish economy was doing so well. In fact, that was right and wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101125	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101127	What the rapporteur is replying is that we criticised the social democracy for pursuing an irresponsible economic policy. It turned out that the government and the Social Democratic Party, together with a broad majority in parliament, are pursuing the right policy and getting Denmark through the corona crisis. Now, once again, you choose to criticise the government for pursuing an irresponsible policy. I think that the policy pursued should be recognised instead, and I also think that it should give rise to reflections on its own criticism and perhaps also reflection on the policy followed after the financial crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101203	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101204	The policy following the financial crisis and the hypocrisy that the rapporteur is now addressing, I can hardly stand to hear. For some of what happened as a consequence of the financial crisis was, of course, that necessary reforms were made, which is why this society is getting richer. And when the government stands and prides itself on the fact that labour supply is increasing, as you are doing, it is on the basis of two major initiatives. This is the reform in relation to early retirement, which was not abolished but changed, and then it is the benefit agreement. That is exactly what is involved in creating the supply of work. That is why it is quite crazy to hear that the government is prided on the fact that there are more people in the workforce. After all, it does so on the basis of the reforms that have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101247	Then it's mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101249	Thank you for that, thank you for your speech, and thank you for focusing on the demand that is out there, on labour. It's also something the government is trying to address, and it's probably mostly a statement I'd like to use as a word. When we see the fine package that came here on Tuesday, what does the rapporteur think when, at the same time, additional taxation is applied to investment? When companies stand out there and have the good idea and can create some jobs, the government says: we want to increase the supply of labour, but we want to restrict jobs as well. Isn't that what happens when you want to raise the share tax compared to these innovative companies that are going to create capital? Does the Left not agree that it is counterproductive in relation to the situation we are facing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101333	What the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is focusing on is absolutely right. I myself had the pleasure of hearing the Prime Minister at the Danish Business Annual Meeting, which was an annual meeting which, I think, took place last week when the Prime Minister spoke about the importance of what could be done to strengthen Danish business. There wasn't an eye dry, and everyone sat and applauded, and one walked away and thought that the Social Democratic Prime Minister has understood the importance of strengthening Danish business. Then it'll be a week, and then you can see that the government is doing exactly the opposite. The truth is that the Prime Minister knew what would be presented, namely a higher tax on entrepreneurship. I do not understand, because this is the totally wrong way to go, and that is also why common sense is needed in the negotiations that are going to take place. I hope this will not happen, because it will be married to Danish business.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101419	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101420	Thank you for that and it is good that we agree on it. Another thing that the rapporteur also had with him, and which the Social Democrat rapporteur also had with him in the past, is whether foreigners with a non-western background should enter the labour market. When the Left also says that there are some proposals for this, there is a challenge when we see that for women, particularly those with a non-western background, who are here, it is true that it is soon 20 per cent who are on early retirement, i.e. a lifelong benefit. Does the Left not agree that we have a rather great challenge in that this group, which has been permanently removed from the labour market, fills so much? When you talk about having more people to contribute, it is of no use giving them a lifelong benefit, that is to say that they are on passive support and are parked outside the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101502	It is precisely a very, very important theme. After all, women with non-Western backgrounds are something that rides us like a mare and that rides many municipalities like a mare in economic terms, not to mention human, because it is also passed on to children, and that is why we need to take a firmer approach. In relation to the specific question of early retirement, we can also consider whether to revisit those who have received early retirement. After all, there are municipalities which have at least discussed whether this could be necessary to see whether the criteria on which early retirement was granted were met.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101543	Then we move on to Mrs Lise Bech-Nielsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101547	Thank you. I would like to talk a little about agriculture, because, as the rapporteur is well aware, it is something that takes up a great deal of our CO2 if we do nothing and continue to do what we have done so far, agriculture will account for half of all emissions by 2030. I am a little curious about what the rapporteur meant by that we have the world's most climate-efficient food. Would the rapporteur not like to say a few words about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101628	Yes, I said that we have one of the most climate-efficient production tools in relation to food. And that is why, when we look at the way in which we burden our environment in relation to produced unit, it is quite different from many other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101646	That's not true. It is, among other things. Because we settle our accounts the way we do. We import soy from South America. We have huge meat production. If we really are to produce more climate-efficiently, we must help agriculture to convert into a much more plant-based production, so that we can take responsibility for the fact that the food you eat anywhere in the world is more climate-efficient.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101723	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101724	Basically, I still think people want to eat meat in the future. I know that Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen does not say that you should go from meat to plants, but what makes a difference is to use the technology to ensure that what you produce is even more sustainable, and that is the development that we must support. If you look at the way Danish agriculture produces in relation to e.g. Germany or Poland or Spain, it is quite clear that we have a much, much more advanced production facility than those countries have, and that is the way we have to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101801	Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101804	Thanks for the speech. After all, our two parties agree that when it comes to people in the economy, we must have our ambitions in relation to what was presented on Tuesday. I will sign for that, and we look forward to working with the Left on it as well. I also welcome the fact that the Left would like to give money to the climate area. However, another area in which we disagreed with the Left, at least in the past, was investment in education and research, where the former Left Government and the VLAK government cut on education and research. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the Left too today is ready to increase investment in education and research, just as the Left has now proposed in the area of climate change.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101855	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101857	After all, we have had an enormously high level in relation to how much money we have spent on our education system. What, I think, is something that needs to be discussed at some point is that the part we spend on su almost takes up as much as the professional content. And then I would like to say that this does not mean that I am launching a su-reform here from the platform just because I feel that there are some who will be asking about it in a moment. But you have to look at that, in other words how and how you use the funds. After all, we have no opposition to a priority strategy in relation to both the research effort and the education system. I think that where action should be taken is primarily in relation to research and development. There are huge tasks in relation to the green transition, and if we are to succeed, then we will have to allocate some new, fresh funds to that process. It doesn't come by itself. I think we must admit that honestly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101952	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909101954	I'm glad to hear that. Now the government has set up, I think it was 2.5 billion. kr., you want to set aside for the field of education. Is that something that the Left will support when we come in and negotiate? For that is at least central to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102010	Well, now the government has the black belt of presenting figures without an economic table. I still haven't managed to get away, and it may be, because I haven't seen enough on the Ministry's website to see how the money actually helps finance the various boosts. I can see that there are some ambitions, and we must learn more about that when we are invited to negotiations. But basically, the Left and I are of the opinion that if the government is finally doing something that we think is a step in the right direction, then I have decided to be positive. Unlike my nature, I want to be positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102048	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102051	From Enhedslisten's side, we would like to give priority to both welfare and the green transition. It is the case that from 2015 to 2019 Lars Løkke Rasmussen governments were behind agreements that mean that today we are going to pay 22 billion each year. kr. for tax reliefs agreed between 2015 and 2019. Then the Left says: Well, it is a problem that there are parties in the Folketing that will give priority to welfare, because we need to spend all the money on the green transition. So the charge should be that you'd rather have welfare than want green conversion. I mean, both are affordable. But I would like to ask the Left: if we are so concerned about green conversion and want to leave room for 1.7 billion. kr., how about rolling back at least a significant part of the many tax reliefs agreed between 2015 and 2019, which will cost 22 billion each year. kr.? Because if you really think there should be money for the climate, that is where you could really get to grips, unless the Left has as a project, that there should be no money to restore welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102157	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102159	We actually mean, I think, the same thing as Enhedslisten, I have to understand. We believe that it is not either-or, it is both and. But the difference is how to finance it. We do not think that taxes should be raised. There we are different and we have different views. I think, sir. Rune Lund asked the same question last time, and nothing new has happened: we are on a tax freeze. We think it is important that we actually bring some money for the green transition, which is also real, so that we do not just put the burden on the branches that are going to make the transformation. I think Rune Lund actually helped negotiate if I remember, but it may be that I misremember the green conversion of the industry that we add 13 billion. kr., 1.3 billion. kr. per year for a 10-year period. As far as cars are concerned, for which the Left was not part of an agreement, but on which we negotiated a great deal, the incentive for the green transition was actually lifted by spending somewhere between 3 and 4.5 billion. kr. Until 2025. So it costs to make green conversion, and I believe that Enhedslisten acknowledges that, but it comes with a price, and there we just disagree on how to finance it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102305	Then it's mr. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102307	I have a prediction that these financial law negotiations will go as they did in the 2020 and 2021 Finance Act, namely that we will have a bigger and better boost in welfare than the government has brought. Then we will be faced with the fact that the Left has an ambition that only the demographic move should be met, but that we deliver more. The Left must then give an explanation of where it is that the welfare needs to be cut in order to make room for the green investments that the Left would like to have. Or the Left should perhaps in fact explain why the Left, with the views that are put forward, would actually rather, in the end, have tax reliefs, which are largely to the benefit of the richest, rather than investing in the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102344	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102346	But it's just a disagreement that's hard to get away. The Enhedslisten wants people to pay something more in taxes and taxes. We don't think so. We are the highest taxed country in the world, so if you raise taxes, you simply send jobs out of the country, and then we get other problems that make us poor. We think that is the wrong way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102405	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102408	With the reform action that the government has put forward, Denmark can more than that, we come back to almost zero. That does not solve the problem of labour shortages. In New Citizens we have presented a long-term economic plan, which contains a large number of measures • it may be the removal of top tax, the reduction of corporation tax and the removal of registration tax on cars • which will increase labour supply. Can the Left see itself in any of those things? Now the Left says that they will also present some things that will increase the supply of work. Could you reveal whether these are some of the things you can see yourself in, because we need to find a common ground? So the Danish business community needs some leverage out there. It's not being delivered right now by the government, and then the rest of us have to step up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102455	Now I can see that Lars Boje Mathiesen has bought the domain www.danmarkkanmere.dk, and now I don't know if it's called Denmark more 100.0, because it's at least some larger figures that are in New Citizens' economic policy than those that the government has put on the table, and I would like to sign for that as well. Well, we have an ambition to do more than the 10,000, and that is what I said. This is absolutely necessary, and I hope that we, together from the blue parties, can come together to put some things on the table that can help the government to reach a more ambitious level. So I'm kind of open to that. After all, we have had a very good cooperation, and we have very good cooperation at the moment, in the field of agriculture and food, on how we can maintain the hundreds of thousands of jobs in that area, and that cooperation should also be so that we could agree on raising common priorities in relation to economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102548	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102549	A very concrete offer that has come from, for example. Conservatives and Radicals are raising the limit of top tax. We know this is quite important for the supply of work. Will that be something that the Left also looks positive into? For then we only have to get DF in, and then we actually have a majority, so we can put forward a proposal on this and adopt it by a majority in the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102612	So, I do not know if there is a majority in favour of raising the top tax, because that probably also requires the Social Democrats to be prepared for it. But it is not the case that I am ideologically opposed to looking at the top tax line. I am quite open to discussing this; I would like to say so. Then we'll have to look at how to finance it. All good proposals that make Denmark richer will have to be taken seriously, and there is no doubt that looking at the impact of the top tax on the Danish economy can have an enormous effect on the labour supply, so we are willing to discuss that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102650	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102652	Thank you for your speech and thank you for the excellent cooperation that we in the Left and the Liberal Alliance have every day. It is based on the fact that we will go in the same direction. There are so different distances we will go. The left will sometimes take a few centimeters, and we'd like some 100 m or something like that, but we're going in the same direction. Therefore, it can annoy sometimes, for example. When Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen asks Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen, whether the Left will help raise the limit for the payment of top tax, that Left then cannot say that yes, they would like to do so, instead of saying that it is open to them to look at etc. I am also surprised, and I am disappointed, that when the Liberal Alliance proposes to halve the benefit period from the current 2 years to 1 year, the answer from the Left is that it is not a solution to the current challenges of labour shortages. That is it; it gives 22,000 more people who offer their labour to the Danish labour market, who scream for labour. So why would the Left answer such a thing, excuse me, a little stupid something sometimes?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102756	That's probably the hardest question I've had for a long time, so why the Left answers such a stupid thing. And that was even a sad remark, because it was our employment rapporteur who replied. The question was so difficult that I let him answer the question. Anyway, we disagree, and I guess that's fair enough. I acknowledge that reducing the benefit period from 2 to 1 year naturally has an effect. This can be seen in relation to the graduation rate, where the government is proposing to set it from 2 years to 1 year, and it also has an effect. So, yes, it has an effect. However, we do not believe that what is most crucial in relation to the negotiations that we are going to have now is to halve the daily allowance period. We have other priorities that we think are more important, and that is why we will not be supporting that proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102837	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102839	Well, it's an honest case if you're against it, but claiming it's not a solution to the problem is stupid and wrong. For that is surely a solution to the problem when it provides 22,000 extras, which offer their labour force. I just think we should expect a little more honesty from the Left. And then I would like to hear: why is the Left against it? Does the Left really believe that people need more than one year to find a new job when they become unemployed? In other words, is one year simply not enough to find a new job when people become unemployed when we can see that companies are crying out for labour at the moment?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102911	I would also like, before my speaking time runs out, to sign off on good cooperation with Mr Beyer de Ryke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Ole Birk Olesen, just for saying that. I do not think that reducing the benefit period from two years to one year is the answer to the fact that you then say that you have a greater supply of work. I recognise that it provides a greater supply of work, but there are some other tools I would rather use rather than halve the benefit period. I think that having a two-year benefit period is a sensible starting point. It doesn't mean I'm willing to raise the benefit period either. Now the government has come up with a proposal that the rate should be raised. I am also critical of this. But I would like to say that we recognise that this has an effect, so if it is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen was unhappy with, it is thus clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909102958	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103000	And then for something completely different. My question is about development aid. In the Paris Agreement, the rich countries undertake to pay 100 billion. kr. to the poorest countries per year in climate aid. Care.dk has calculated that it is approx. 5 billion kr. a year, we have to pay here in Denmark. In the financial law game, only half of it has been dropped off. Worse still, money for climate aid is taken from development aid. That is to say the aid that should try to get the poorest countries back on their feet. What does the Left think about taking money for climate aid from our development aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103042	I think that is common sense, because they must be of benefit to the whole purpose. That is why it can be said that climate aid and what can be called traditional aid are, of course, intended to ensure that people develop. And climate is a prerequisite for that development in parts of the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103059	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103100	Well, then, how much does the Left think you should spend a year on climate aid? And how much of this must be taken from the aid that should go to the very poorest countries and provide education and a little more prosperity there?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103116	Well, I don't think we should do any more than we do today. Denmark is one of the highest countries in terms of how much development aid we give per year. citizen. So I have no ambition to say that what the government is proposing is too bad. There may be other parties with that attitude, and that must then be negotiated with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103140	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103143	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen is absolutely right when he says that if the Social Democratic Party of the present Parliament is not involved in doing something about, for example, the Social Democrats. The top tax, yes, it will be nothing despite cheap port wine and sloppy speech and the promises that come from the leader of the Radical Left towards both Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen and Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen Søren Pape Poulsen in one newspaper interview after another. Because if the Radical Left is serious about making a majority bypassing the government on the proposals that are being made, for example. has presented with Conservatives, so the Prime Minister probably prints elections, or others overturn the government. So that is one big bluff, and so I would like to ask the Left whether one does not get a little worried and whether one might consider keeping the rapprochement from the Radical Left a little bit at bay until the Radical Left has said that they are pointing blue after the next elections? Because then we can use it for something.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103257	It is true that a great many things have been said by the Radical Left which have yet to be implemented. Jens Rohde a hundred percent right. It is also a man with one, one can say, show insight that speaks, and I have great respect for that, I say in love with Mr. Jens Rohde. It is clear, however, that until the radicals are really aware of their colours, this is nothing that can be used for anything other than simply taking note of it in the political debate. I'm one hundred percent in agreement with sir. Jens Rohde. And I am also of the opinion that at the time when the Radicals had to confess their colours and make an ultimate demand on the government, this would result in the government having to issue elections, because then their parliamentary basis would crumble.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103345	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103348	Well, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen also has some insight, for he has written a book together with a radical, so in this way we share such a little fate with regard to the insight. And the truth is that it will never happen until the Radical Left decides to point differently. And I hope that the bourgeois side of the House will try to get a clear answer from the Radical Left as to what it really is that we want. Is that just cheating for cheating, or is there something behind it? But I would like to ask Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen, when he mentions that the party has other suggestions to increase the work offer than the one with the cash benefits. I think it is sympathetic enough and to use the tax instrument: what are the suggestions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103439	Well, we have one of them. I would like to say that as a single tool we would like to increase the employment allowance. In addition, however, we must wait with a little patience until we present our budgetary priorities, as we will be doing here in October, where we will show how we can do something that is more ambitious in terms of structural employment than what the government has put on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103504	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103507	Thank you. Now Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Poulsen on his excellent report. Troels Lund Poulsen said: It will be posted on the Left's website. It has not yet been, and that is why I have just a few questions about it. There are, I must confess, a little different interpretations of it. There is at least a little confusion about what the tax freeze means when you ask different leftists, so the one question is: is the tax freeze of the Left today the same as in 2002, and if so, what is the cost?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103546	I can say that this is on the Left's website, so there must be something wrong with the questioner's ability to apply and find it. I would like to read aloud: The tax freeze as formulated in 2019 rests on the following principles: 1) No tax increases; 2) Tax freezes with respect for municipal and local self-government; 3) EU regulation and closure of tax gaps; 4) Environmental and climate considerations; 5) Tobacco taxes are not covered by the tax freeze. So I think it's just you can go in and read, and then I think you get smarter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103620	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103622	[Sound emission]... reveals these are my technical limitations. I'm sorry about that. I fully acknowledge that, unfortunately, I do. But I did actually find it here from 2002, and it is clear from that tax freeze that, for example, if you do not have the right to vote in local elections, you will not be able to vote in local elections. If the unit costs are in DKK, they must be maintained in nominal DKK. Then I'll just ask you, and it's my second question... whether it's the same thing for 2002 in the tax freeze that appears in 2019. Is it still part of the Left's tax freeze that indexed environmental and energy taxes are locked in nominal crowns? That is a clarification question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103659	Well, I guess it makes the most sense to say to Mr. Knox. Jeppe Bruus, that if you want to know exactly what we are saying about the tax freeze, you can do the exercise to read it on our website, and I have referred to that as such.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103713	Thank you. Then the next one is a brief comment, Mrs Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103719	Thank you. In Information this summer there was an interview with Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, in which he says that, in a way, he thinks that the Left is greener than the government. He also says about the agricultural negotiations - and I quote: the Left and the Government are close to each other on the climate side, but far from each other on the nitrogen side. However, nitrogen pollutants are not just an environmental agent, it is also a very potent climate effect, and in the government's agricultural proposals it is where we find one third of the concrete reductions that need to be made in the implementation trail. So my question is: if the Left is really greener than the government, why not use this obvious instrument, and what is the Left going to ask instead of this device that can come with the same reductions of 0.6 million? t CO 2
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103814	As I recall, the government is up to 1.8 million. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. And if you look at what the Left will stand for, we will match the 1.8 million. I even believe that the Left can present something that is more ambitious and the reason why we can present something that is more ambitious is that we want to extract more low bottom soil than the government wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103843	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103845	And there's gotta be some money for that. At the same time, the Left will cover the demography, spend more money on defence, have a tax stop and tax relief, etc. Today we are talking about a green space of 1.7 billion. kr., which the Left will provide, and that is all of the 1.7 billion. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet reached agreement on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103913	I would like to make the disclosure today that the demands of the Left for the agricultural negotiations are not 1.7 billion. kr. a year. Despite the fact that we spent 1.3 billion on energy, which I think the rapporteur was also involved in negotiating. kr. a year for 10 years, the Left does not expect 1.7 billion to be spent. kr. in relation to the green conversion of agriculture. But it is clear that if no more money is added than the 70 million. kr. It will cost, let us say, 15 000 jobs per year, and it is just a development that we do not want to take part in. It is both a pity for the local NNFs or 3Fs, because it is their jobs that are lost and we think that is the wrong way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103953	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909103956	Thank you. I would like to stay a little at the green room, because over the summer the President of the Left put forward a proposal to reduce the graduation rate and said that the proceeds would then have to be reserved for a green space. That sounds really nice, and that's why I was a little puzzled, too, when Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen in a debate when the government presented his draft budget, said that part of the proceeds would be used to increase seniors' participation in the labour market, thus increasing the incentive for seniors to enter the labour market. So all I have to do is listen to it squarely: have you made double bookings, or is it still the case that the whole green space is to be used on the green?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909104036	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909104037	We have not made double bookings, so we have still lost the position expressed by the President of the Left. If, then, the rapporteur for the Left has formulated himself imprecisely, that cannot be ruled out; however, it is rare that this happens I would like to rebuke him.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909104055	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909104057	It is always wise to be rebuked if it was a disagreement with the President. We're gonna pursue it. I hear sir. Troels Lund Poulsen says that you will come up with what is called the Left's financial law priorities here over a period of time. But if we are to be able to keep track of whether there are double accounts, then it is really only if we can get an assurance that the Left will present such a comprehensive estimate of what things are going to cost and where the money is going to come from. For we have to see that more money is being demanded for agriculture, more money for defence, demography, tax freezes, tax cuts and all sorts of things out of the scope, and we do not really think that it is going to go up.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909104138	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909104140	I can tell it's something that can make Jens Joel sleepless. We must try to counteract this, so yes, I would like to give the undertaking that we will see how we will spend the money and also how we will finance it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909104152	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909104155	I am simply looking forward to this autumn and I believe that we can make important decisions together, both in terms of the economy, but I hope that we can actually do so when it comes to freedom and freedom for the school. That is why I would like to ask the Left's financial rapporteur: if we are now to give together a freedom to make shorter school days, should we not also give priority to money for our sfo's and leisure homes to open something earlier?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909104220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909104222	Yes, but this gives rise to a slightly wider debate, because should we not also allow freedom for free schools to actually be real free schools, and that you can also have self-serving institutions which are not limited to doing such wild Stalinist exercises, where you cannot have a profit by running a kindergarten? I think we will have to discuss this in the same context.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909104245	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909104247	When I ask, it is because in the attempts at freedom that are still under way in Esbjerg, all schools would like to have shorter school days, but the money has not been set aside for the sfo or the leisure home to open earlier, and then it will just be a saving. For then the children will both have a lower leisure time, where there are no educators, but they will not actually get a good school either, because if the money does not stay in school, there is no money to put an extra teacher on or split up into small teams. That is why I would just like to ask the Left: do you not think that if we are going to make school day shorter and we in the Radical Left think that we should go ahead and give priority to children's leisure time?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909104320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909104321	Yes, and now I shall try not to make a huge conflict out of it, because it was a kindly asked question, that is how I understood it. It is clear that if you are going to create a new model for the primary school on a few selected topics, and that is what Lotte Rod is setting up on the basis of them, you have to say, great challenges that the current reform has given you, you will of course also have to look at how to organize the time that comes after school. Because of course there is a transition until the smaller students can be at home with their parents. I totally agree with that. This has to be discussed, and it will also be an economic discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909104356	Thank you. Then I have only one entry left for a brief comment, and that is Mrs Victoria Velasquez. She's not here, so the next person to sign in is Mrs. Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909104415	Thank you. I can understand from the debate that the Left is very much in agreement with the fact that there is a good economy at the moment and that it is actually hurling forward. I should like to ask whether the Left, on this basis, will help to abolish the craftsman's allowance; do away with the possibility of withdrawing if you get someone into work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909104444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909104445	No, we won't. We have noted that the government has, if I may say so, downgraded the housing job scheme, and we think this is wise in the present situation. But we also note that there is still the possibility of having a housing job scheme, now with some lower rates. We think this is wise for several reasons, both in relation to the green transition, but also in relation to the fight against undeclared work. So we do not believe that the housing job scheme should be abolished. Here we are in agreement with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909104514	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909104515	However, does the rapporteur not agree that it is a deduction which is particularly beneficial to the highest income and which is actually paid out to things that would otherwise have happened anyway? And isn't it true that time has run out of such a deduction? It was originally introduced at a time of recession and there was reason to stimulate the economy. Is it not true that this is the time to remove it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909104542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909104544	No, I don't think it's right that it's time to get rid of it. I think it is important that we still give it away for families who want, for example. to modernise their home and make it more green, and for that matter also in relation to settling a dispute with the black work, where it is important for the Left to have tools that actually work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909104605	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909104623	Thank you for that, President. Yes, we are here with the draft budget for 2022. There's a really nice front page, where it says "Everyday back" now we're looking forward. I think we have all looked forward to that, that is to say we have come out on the other side of the corona. And we can also rejoice at the fact that we have actually helped each other across parties that it has come to look reasonable. And we look into the fact that there is really also growth in society. That is probably why we are also going to talk about labour supply and all the other things. Because when there is growth, there is also a need for labour. So that's kind of positive enough. You can also say with a glimpse in your eye that there isn't much to look back at either. We have seen 19 billion being spent. kr. to close a mink business. We have seen how to buy buildings on Langeland without having to use them, etc. etc. But after all, we are in a good place today, and we also welcome this in the Danish People's Party. I must also say that when you look at a Finance Act as an opposition, you always look at what is not so good and use your strength on it, but of course there are also things in a Finance Act that are quite good, and you should also remember to sign for that. When you look at the agreement for the municipalities, it looks as if the municipalities can get through sensibly, even if when you get feedback from the municipalities, it looks as if • perhaps also because it is an election year • that they have started to be equally generous enough, also in relation to the agreement they have made with the finance minister. It will also be interesting to see how it is handled. I really hope that the municipalities and the government will get it in a sensible way, so that the municipalities will not get this huge fine of up to 5 billion. kr., if they spend too much money out there. But, of course, an agreement must be respected once an agreement has been reached. That is my introduction. Then, of course, I turn to some of what we think is not so good. Some of the headlines think we're really good, and that's one of them. This is with more opportunities for country and city to get closer together. We think that's really good. We are a party that thinks that in a small country like Denmark we should have the same opportunities, and it is amazing that you can sometimes take your car from here, drive an hour and a half, and then it is as if you have come somewhere else entirely. When you look down into what that 1⁄2 billion. kr. I would just like to say that you are sitting there and saying: can that really be true? Significantly more sports facilities in Copenhagen and at Frederiksberg. There isn't much province in it. Possibility of banning older wood-burning furnaces. Oh, come on. These are the people you use in the province to heat your home. You can also look further: Nulemission zones for cities. There's gonna be more electric cars. I guess that's not what fills the most in the province either. But what fills up in the province and you don't really get that addressed... is that what's missing out there a lot is the doctor. The old house doctor that we all know and have had. It's the doctor who remembers when you were there last time. The doctor who knows what's wrong with you. The doctor you're familiar with. Yes, it is lacking in many rural areas. There we had hoped that this finance bill might have looked at it and said: how can we support • together with the regions of course that it can also be done in the future, i.e. get the house doctor back. We think that is one of the things that is missing. Another thing that we think is missing is also based on the proposal made by the government on Tuesday, when we have to look at the supply of work. We are, in fact, very much in agreement with the government that we need to look at the supply of work. How can we get more people to contribute? But you could also use another expression: How do we get more people to come along, even for their own sake? There is no doubt that being part of a community, being in the labour market also has some positive elements for us as people. What we think is missing is that the seniors do not take up much. And then we could see that the Minister for Employment was also out to say something about it. So what are we going to do? Yes, you can no longer ask how old the applicant is. You don't really know whether to laugh or cry if that's the offer the government makes. We think it would be better to look at what is really going to be done out there. It is, of course, that the companies are also being squeezed a little on their stomachs. There you can use either the whip or the carrot. We actually know the system today when we use the whip, among other things. When we look at taking apprentices. It is the case that companies that do not take apprentices have to pay a penance because they do not. You could also imagine having to pay a penance if you didn't have an x-number of seniors. But you could also connect it together and say that if you don't have so many apprentices, then if you just have many seniors, you might be able to compensate some of it, that is to say give some carrot, compared to that you will also be using the gray gold that is out there. Because there is no doubt that we in Denmark have some competences out there, which unfortunately we do not get capitalised well enough. Another thing that we think should fill something more, also in the context of the Finance Act, is what the government wants with the exit centre, the exit centre that the previous government had decided with the Danish People's Party, and where they had taken hold of those who are doomed not to be in Denmark, and said that they should not go around freely. They're the people who've done crime. Part of their punishment was not only to be in prison; part of their punishment was also that they should not go and be in Denmark. Those people are walking freely now, and why are they doing that? They do, because the government would not take the model that the previous government and the Danish People's Party had made. And that is fair enough; we can have political disagreements. But you still haven't solved it. Those people are still moving away freely in Denmark. If you go in and read what the people have exposed the Danish community to or, for that matter, to some citizens, you can see that it is rape, attempted robbery, drug trafficking and so on. etc. And we in the Danish People's Party do not want them running around freely, as they do today, which is why we are a little sad that with the Danish Finance Act 2022 you do not come up with a proposal on how to solve it. You tried to buy Holmegaard over at Langeland. You did not get a majority in favour of this, but then you have to try again to solve things. Another thing that we also think is missing is something in the area of the elderly. Now I'm going to talk about the children's area, and why am I doing that? It is, of course, because the government has introduced minimum standards for day care institutions. That can be positive enough. We believe that we have confidence in local self-government, but now we have chosen to do so in the way we now have, and we must of course accept that there is a majority in favour of it. But what is really going to happen in the municipalities when, in one welfare area, a minimum standard is being drawn up which is legally binding? It is, of course, that you have to live up to that; you cannot prioritize more in the municipality. And when you have to prioritize out there at some point, what is it that stands for gunshots? Yes, it is the primary school area and the elderly area that are at odds with channelling money to, for example, increased norms. However, the biggest challenge at the moment may also be the staff, because in fact we are in a situation where the elderly are lacking in staff. In fact, if you go in and look at the different job portals, you can see that there are a lot of waving positions for sosu assistants and nurses and others needed in the care sector. And there is no doubt that some of those posts will automatically be channelled into the area of children, because you have to fill the posts there, otherwise you will not live up to the legislation. That is why we think we are facing a challenge. We are not opposed to having good standards in the area of day-care. I would like to say that. But we are a little opposed to taking out one welfare area and saying that here you have some special qualities to live up to, because that is what we in the Folketing decide, and then you leave some other areas in particular the elderly area, where we know that there are more and more elderly people standing out there and paying the price for having made that decision in the Folketing; we think that is a pity. Another thing you don't have with you is the broadband pool. So, you look up that you want Denmark to hang better together. We all know that under the corona people really have a taste for working at home. We can see that housing prices are actually getting a little up in the province. It's actually really good. It is a sign that things are also going well in the province. Well, now is not the time to tell them out there: yes, you can buy a house in the province, but you won't be able to do that work from home, because we're gonna shut down the broadband pool. That is simply not good enough. I believe, and of course also hope, that it will come with when the Finance Act is finished, but it could also be the case that the government, and it is a one-party government that we have, in other words, a social democratic government, too, had it with and said that it is also what they want to do. But apparently it isn't. What we also note is that funding has not been provided in the field of foreigners. I know it has come late and there may be good explanations for it, but we need to look at what kind of future we are looking into. Now there has been corona, and everyone has found it difficult to travel. In fact, if you have been a fugitive, you have also had it. How do we ensure that we do not come back to 2015, also with the things that are happening in Afghanistan, compared to Denmark becoming a very attractive country? We all know that the present government and their support parties have made it more attractive to come to Denmark. In other words, opening up boxes is the worst thing you can do, because when people are out in the Third World looking at where to flee, they are, of course, fleeing to where it is best, and you cannot think about that. And that is where the boxes have been opened in Denmark, which is why we would have liked to see action taken in relation to it. The last thing I should like to say is that it is also important, in relation to labour supply reforms, to see that so many people with a non-western background are parked on passive support, which is lifelong, i.e. early retirement. We're getting close to 20 percent. by the group that has been parked on a support that is lifelong. This is not good enough for the individual, but certainly not for society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909105627	Thank you. Some have asked for the floor. I would also like to ask, if there are any more Members who want to speak, that they enter now so that we can sort out the order. The first, with a brief comment, is Mr. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909105641	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. After all, the government has just presented the reform proposal, which is intended to make us greener, richer and more skilled by among others. to invest 2.5 billion. kr. in better education. Some of the funds could be used, among other things. It is used to deal with the group leaving our primary school without adequate conditions, i.e. the 15% who cannot go directly on an upper secondary education, those who do not join the car. If I am not mistaken, last year, the rapporteur spoke a lot about this group in the financial bill debate, so I would really just like to invite the rapporteur to ask whether the rapporteur can give some suggestions or perhaps play some concrete proposals on the table on what could be done to raise this group, how could the funds possibly be put into play, whether you might have some experience from the southern islands that could be brought to the table? Actually, that's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909105733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909105735	As I also started by saying, there are good things in a budget law, and of course there are those that you would like to point your finger at. But there is no doubt that there is a need for it, because unfortunately we see too many young people leaving our primary school without having 2 in Danish and mathematics, and that actually means that they are not ready to take an upper secondary education. We don't have much resources in Denmark, we don't have gold, precious stones and lots of oil, and the latter we have decided not to have any more, we only have our people, and therefore it is not good enough that so many do not have the skills for a youth education. And I actually think that from here we should dare to set the primary school a little more free and then say what the core task is in primary school, and that is to give the children some skills in order to be self-supporting, so go out and get an education and move on in life. So I actually think it's more about removing some of what we've imposed on primary school than it might be about putting more into primary school, and then measuring what's interesting, and it's attendance rate, it's sick absence, it's grades.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909105829	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909105831	After all, we are also discussing a part of the public school circle, how we can ensure that we spend more of our energy on the core service, one can say, that children have the right competences, so I would like to discuss that. However, could the rapporteur perhaps imagine entering into an agreement with the government in this area, in other words giving priority to some of the funds we need to invest in better education, to raise this group and to put into primary school?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909105900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909105901	The Danish People's Party can be part of all good agreements, and it does not really matter what the combination of letters is. If we can do something sensible, we would like to be involved in agreements. And there is no doubt that the primary school is one of our biggest engines in relation to the society we have today. We are a society based on the fact that our people are becoming more skilled and able and that we can produce more and more. Our costs are high and therefore we need to be effective, which is why we need to be able as a population.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909105928	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909105931	I would like to ask Mr. René Christensen quite a bit about the reform initiative that the government has made. I would really like to ask a little about the benefit part, because one thing is that the Danish People's Party has its attitude towards immigrants, and I understand that the government thinks that young people are lazy, that immigrants are lazy, and that it should be hard to go to work. It is just like the vision of working life. However, if we now tackle the benefit part, you will initially have 20,000 people working for a very low hourly wage. to. We also know that jobs, for example. must collect garbage, etc., very quickly can go beyond ordinary collective jobs, not least in 3F's area. How does the Danish People's Party feel about such state-sponsored social dumping, where initially 20,000 people are to undermine Danish pay and working conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110041	Firstly, I think we should recognise that the vast majority of people actually want to go to work. They want a meaningful job and make their own money. It is not fantastic to be part of the public system in Denmark at least not if you have tried not to be a part of it. Then I would like to say, with regard to useful jobs, that it can be a little easy to say that it means just picking up shutters. It sounds easy, but it is not really, because if you have to do it along a road, the first thing that happens is that someone says that you have to have the course called the road as the workplace, and then you have to have safety shoes, reflex vest and everything, and you have to take a course, and then you have to go out and work. So this is also going to cost a lot of money. It's not just putting your finger up. But we think that when you are on passive support, it is fine that you can contribute to the community, but it must also have a value for the individual. It is not enough just to harass people; you also have to motivate people to get out and become self-supporting, because that is the goal that people become self-supporting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110138	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110139	I think I got to say 140 kroner. of course, it's 40 kroner. in an hour, if we are talking about a single non-parent on integration benefit, who is to work 37 hours a week. But what is important to me here is: will this not lead to social dumping? That is my first question. My second question is: doesn't this add up to a little bit of education snobbery? Understandably, waste management is not just collecting garbage, you have to know about different types of waste, you have to know about waste sorting, you have to know about traffic conditions. Well, there's actually an educational effort behind some of these jobs, so it's not something you can just send people out to. Isn't this a bit of a training snobbery, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110224	I don't really think so. I think it feels like you're saying something that sounds easy, and it's actually just a lot harder. The intentions are good enough in that we people are really good at adapting, so if we have nothing to stand up to, we make our lives work anyway, and all of a sudden you become a passive citizen on passive support, so it is important that you get out. But we really want to go back to what is actually in the legislation, namely that when you talk to a citizen who is on passive support, you make an individual assessment with the citizen. If we just decide that everyone should have the same thing, then we do not make an individual assessment, and we also sit with the minister and have to save some money out there, and we hope that we can set the job centres more free, so that we do not experience people being put to those silly things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110304	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110305	I haven't noticed, I'm sorry, but then I can ask a question: Does the Danish People's Party's rapporteur think that it is positive that this government is making Denmark poorer towards 2030, or is it a problem that on top of decades of focus on making Denmark richer all of a sudden makes Denmark poorer?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110335	Yes, it can be said that at least a lot of money has been spent in the last period, but that is where we have also helped to spend a great deal of that money across parties. We should never work to make Denmark poorer. We must always work to ensure that Denmark gets richer, but of course it is also about how we spend the money. Well, we do not agree that it is just about getting a lot of money out; it is about how we spend our citizens' money. And then you sometimes forget in here in the Folketing that every time we spend 1 DKK, it is a treasure crown, and therefore someone has gone to work and earned one crown. So we also need to think a little bit about spending our citizens' money.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110405	Thank you. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110408	Thanks for the speech. I'm gonna grab some of that, sir. René Christensen said: We must always work to make Denmark richer. That is why I have two questions. Why, on earth, was it voted to allow just under 10,000 people who can work to retire early? The second question is: do you, like the two parties that you might want to point out, do we not quite know it yet in relation to the Prime Minister's post and who would like to have international labour for the country, support it? Because it is also a way of making Denmark richer that some people from outside come and work here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110450	First of all, I can say that we want a worthy Denmark; we do not want an unworthy Denmark. And it's just that when you've been on the labour market as many years as we've decided in relation to Arnepensionen, because that's what you're referring to, you've actually paid your quota, and then you've actually got some rights. And we're really happy about that. We are actually pleased that we have been part of that agreement. I would also like to say that sometimes we spend huge amounts of effort chasing some people who have 2-3 years left of their working lives. Why do we spend so many public crowns driving them around the chain when you can actually do it in a different way? We are happy to be part of that agreement and we think we got it very well in terms of funding, with which there were little challenges. In relation to outside labour, we are always puzzled by that labor. You can recruit throughout the EU from all the countries of the European Union free to come to Denmark and work, yet what is demanded is that it should be from third world countries. And why is that? In other words, unemployment is huge when you look at Italy and Spain and elsewhere in Europe. Why can't you recruit there? I am not going to give a lecture on why, but we are open to the fact that you can, of course, get the manpower you need, because otherwise we cannot produce.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110557	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110557-2	Well, then let me grab hold of the last one, sir. René Christensen says that people from Spain and Italy want to come here, because people outside Europe are obviously very opposed. But could it not promote that, for example. was English language education, and that it was not being hunted down? Could not what we have achieved, and now I do not remember whether it was last year or two years ago, also promote it, so that these people from Italy and Spain do not have to pay a lot of money to learn Danish? It may well be that some of the parts of the immigration policy supported by the Danish People's Party help to prevent these people from coming to Denmark. Then we couldn't look at it at least?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110641	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110642	No, we cannot actually look at that, and we clearly mean that particularly when you look at the education system. We have a very special education system in Denmark. Firstly, it is free, and secondly, you can get su, and all those who come to Denmark also get su. After all, we have tried several times when we have been a support party, whether we could make arrangements for free education if you were a European, but that you could not get welfare benefits. We want an open country where you can get to Denmark from outside, but we need closed boxes. Why is it that the European Union wants to decide what our welfare is to be used for? We simply do not want it to be to the Danes and those who have paid their quota, in other words to pay their taxes in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110720	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110722	Thank you. We have the world's highest tax burden in Denmark, and now we have a government that will increase the tax on entrepreneurship and on investment. As I heard the rapporteur, and I am pleased about that, is it not something that the Danish People's Party can support, but does it think that the current 42 per cent level, which is also Europe's highest, is really particularly important for investment, or could we actually lower it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110748	That question can be answered by looking backwards: Have we had major challenges in obtaining funding? Well, we don't really have that. I mean, it's all gone, so you can discuss whether that's where you have to put it first. If we are to look at tax cuts at all and all the tax cuts that have taken place since 2001 we have been part of the • there were just some in 2012 under the former Social Democratic-led government, which we were not part of • we would rather look at facilitating the tax on employment, i.e. for those who are in work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110817	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110817-2	However, we do have problems in obtaining capital for Denmark. We can see for start-ups that capital bypasses Denmark and goes to other countries. We can see that when companies are to be listed on the stock exchange, they have problems with it and they may choose other countries. Of the last ten, eight have chosen Sweden instead. So we have problems with it, and do we not agree that the lower the tax on capital, the more investment and the more capital will you draw to the country and the more it will give to entrepreneurs and start-ups?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110847-2	Yeah, you can agree with that. What you just have to remember is that if you stand here on the speaking chair of the Folketing and say that you want to give tax cuts, the next question is how to finance them. Tax relief must always be 100%. We do not want to bring them into our hands, and we do not have on our block that we want to reduce the tax. But it certainly does not say on our block that we want to increase taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110909	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909110911	After all, this draft budget from the government is a boring round of increases in appropriations, which have already been decided on this year, one more year. That's why you want to talk about something else, and some of what I'm really into is how we're gonna find the harmony in blue Denmark, a joint project, etc., and there I want to hear about something. It is usually the case that when you go to a financial law debate, you also accept that other parties get something through that is not in your own party book. This has been the case for decades, and in this way the Danish People's Party has also got a lot through, as neither the Left, the Conservative nor the Liberal Alliance believed, even though they made financial laws with those parties. What we saw last parliamentary term was that the Danish People's Party made a big mistake in saying no to everything that was not in the Danish People's Party's own party book, and it made it really difficult to have a blue collaboration. So I would like to know whether, in the restoration of the Danish People's Party as a bourgeois party, one has once again intended to accept in a new parliament where there must be a blue majority, that other parties can also get some things through in a financial law debate that is not included in the Danish People's Party party programme.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909111019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909111020	It's always been like that. It is such a rather strange discussion to take down here in the Assembly Hall, because Ole Birk Olesen and I were sitting in the same room when we made the Finance Act, and I remember clearly how it happened. I also remember clearly that both parties got things through, so I do not recognise the premise at all. We fully recognise democracy in the Danish People's Party. We fight for our cause, and other parties fight for their cause. I have great respect for the fact that we have different opinions and different points of reference that we are pursuing, and that is the way it should be. That is what makes it dynamic, and that is what makes us land agreements in which the people hopefully can see themselves. We are also ready to give, but so, politics is mostly about taking and not so much about giving; that is the way it is in such negotiations. After all, these are the conditions of strength and the tests that are being carried out, including in a debate on finance law. We are, of course, fighting for the politics of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909111110	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909111111	What I remember from those negotiations is that sometimes we could get through with some things that the Danish People's Party also meant. Sometimes it was even the case that because we proposed it, we could not get through with it, even though the Danish People's Party meant it because we had proposed it. And I just want to know if the destructive shape is over now, so that, like other parties in the blue cooperation, you won't win, because then it's hard to work together in the future, and then the question is: Should the blue parties look for partners other than the Danish People's Party in the future, because the Danish People's Party will continue the destructive way from the 2015-2019 parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909111149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909111149-2	I really think that Ole Birk Olesen's comments and questions here exhibit it very well. So I think you just have to leave it there, and then you can judge for yourself how hard it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909111200	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909111203	Thank you for that, and I would like to thank the rapporteur for a pragmatic speech. After all, the rapporteur mentioned the economy of the municipalities and, as the rapporteur also knows, this financial agreement provides for the money to be included when we are growing older and older. This has also happened in the last three economic agreements made with the municipalities, where a much greater room for manoeuvre has been given to the municipalities than the last ten agreements made in this area. And there has been a compensatory reform, which has also resulted in a redistribution, which I believe has given the municipality where the rapporteur himself sits in the municipal council 120 million. kr. What I would like to ask is: is this something that can be noticed in the rapporteur's municipality? For I saw a press release that had been sent out under the title Kernevelfærgen, where, I think with the wishes of the Danish People's Party, you have been able to make kitchens at all care centers in Guldborgsund Municipality. But is this something that can be felt in the municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909111308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909111309	Now you gotta be careful mixing your hats. I'm the financial rapporteur when I'm here. I just think that what we need to be very careful about when we send out such large amounts is that a little of the spirit of drifting one's municipality may also disappear a little, that is, when too much money comes out. So I think it's also very important that we spoke in primary school before • that we also set some goals for what we want. Getting a lot of money isn't like spending it on the right thing. So yes, there is no doubt that the compensatory reform has done something good for Provinsdanmark, but it is very, very important that all the municipalities • all 98 municipalities sit and look at their budget all the time and say: When we have to use this crown, how do we use it as best we can for the benefit of the citizens, for the benefit of Denmark. So yes, I think that the compensatory reform has been very good, and it has been in my municipality as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909111357	Sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909111358	Yes, because the next question is, after all, about some of what is on the legislative programme this autumn, and it is, after all, the question of a welfare law that will actually ensure that the money comes with when there are more children and more elderly people in our welfare society, so that we do not have to lower the quality of welfare services. And I can see that the bill that will be put forward has Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and the Danish People's Party welcomed, so I would like to ask the rapporteur: can one imagine that the Danish People's Party is in an agreement on this and will vote in favour of such a welfare law?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909111433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909111434	Yeah, I think we can do that. After all, we have mentioned it before, so when there are more customers in the store, there is also a need to get a little more money. But once again, we would really like to see such a law come up with a little bit of political focus on what it is that we get for the money to return. Now we came to talk about my own municipality. We have actually added over 200 million to the municipality. kr. During this parliamentary term, and I do not really think the citizens have noticed it. The money has thus gone into the machine, and it is a municipality that is translating over 5 billion. kr. And it's a little too bad that when you spend 200 million tax dollars, you don't get more for them than you do. So there is also work there and the money needs to be spent, but it also needs to be spent properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909111517	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909111519	Thank you. I did not actually plan a question, but then I went to Facebook, where the rapporteur wrote about capital taxation. The rapporteur writes that if capital taxation changes, the worker is in favour. After the financial crisis, Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen carried out what we call the red wine reform, where significant tax cuts were made for the richest people in Denmark. I think it was the case that the 100 richest were granted an average tax relief of 2.7 million. kr. Each, and that was among other things. because of the tax on capital. Now you have to understand that if you roll back the top tax relief, it is the worker on the floor who stands for shots, and I find that hard to understand. In other words, if you look at the tax on capital, it is the case that 44 per cent. of which it comes from property margins, and 80%. of the revenue paid on the tax comes from the richest one percent of the population. Well, we are a relatively equal country in Denmark, and it is very good, but we have a challenge with the richest getting richer and running away from the rest. Can it really be true that it is the worker on the floor who stands for shots if we roll back the tax relief to the richest?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909111628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909111630	Yeah, it is when you look further out. I know that politics is all about being able to do it in headlines, because otherwise you can't communicate it, but if a company is out of capital, it's not that big a problem when there's a boom, but when there's a recession, it can be a problem. It may also be a problem in relation to the green changeover, because you have to bet some money, you have to buy some shares in a company where you don't quite know how it's going to go. You think it's going to go well and then you get the money and you can create jobs as a company. If that money does not come, the jobs will not be realised, and then there will not be a blacksmith who welds something together for the green transition; there will not be a Laborant inside to find out how to do something innovative in health and elsewhere. If the money does not come, jobs will not be created either. That's why I'm saying it's gonna hit down on the floor, because these are domino pieces.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909111714	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909111715	But that is really an argument against taxing at all, because then all taxation would ultimately affect the worker. I think, in fact, that those who have the least of the population are concerned that we are doing a fair and fair tax, and that is why we are rolling back this very great tax relief, which very specifically went to the wealthiest. Is the Danish People's Party concerned about the problem that we have with the richest getting richer at a much faster pace than the rest of the country? Do we have a challenge with inequality, especially when it comes to the top running off? If so, what should we do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909111747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909111747-2	No, we've seen a huge problem if the bottom stays standing. Well, listen to me: is the problem that there are 1-2 per cent, for whom it goes well if the whole bottom follows up? It is a much bigger problem if we are in a situation where people lose their jobs, you go bankrupt; people cannot have a normal family life because they have no income. That would be a huge problem. It is not a target for the Danish People's Party that 1%. come down into economics; we don't think that's what's best for us. No, for us, the goal is that they're 99 percent. I'm gonna go into economics. That must be what drives us, not to bother the one percent. So there we are just completely different.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909111825	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to Mr. René Christensen. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909111836	Thank you for the floor. We are on our way out of the shadow of the Corona, the greatest crisis of recent times. I dare say that we have come through well, the economy is roaring, employment is historically good, and that is a good starting point for a debate on finance law. During the decommissioning process we asked ourselves and each other how we could do better on the other side of the crisis: what had we learned, what would we like to change? The Corona crisis has been called a magnifier that focused on magnified the major challenges of our time: loneliness, stress, inequality. The closure and isolation left many of us with the feeling that there was something wrong with our society. Denmark is on some stretches a country filled with people with evil in life. Our young people feel like what we have helped to mold them from the crèche, up through the nursery and school system, namely as foot soldiers in the competitive state with galloping anxiety, inferiority and stress. When our young people wake up in the morning, they have to think of work as the first thing. They must hurry through, they must think about the average character, about the career, about the pension savings, there is no room for slings in the waltz, otherwise they may fall behind and end up as part of the precracy on the edge of the labour market. When you are on the labour market, the elite keep telling you that wages must be kept down because we have to be competitive without wage restraint applying to themselves. Top executives can make three-digit millions of dollars and yet slip away with a golden handshake when they run the company down. Governments, regardless of colour, have removed pre-retirement wages, reduced unemployment benefits, reduced corporate tax, raised the top tax limit and tightened the employment system so hard that humiliated unemployed people gather together in the Job Centre Victims Association. The growing inequality at home creates frustration, anger and opposition, including against us in here and the political system. The so-called Gini coefficient, which takes the temperature of inequality in our society, has dramatically increased over the past three decades. If we measure how unequal fortunes are distributed among the Danes, any mantra about the world's most equal country is made emphatically in the earth. Our progressive tax system and our social safety net ensure that the worst differences between top and bottom are eliminated, but the fortunes are the blind spot, and here we are among the most unequal countries in the whole Western world. I have called the government's Finance Act the world's most boring Finance Act, and I stand by that. The title of the draft Finance Bill alone, the "Everyday back" we are now looking forward, ringing a bit unambitious, and we can also see that the government's proposals are clinically cleared of response to the major challenges of the time. Good initiatives to ensure the balance between the country and the city are pulling up, but otherwise it is a tasty game. The second schwung, in turn, is the government's reform programme •Danmark Kan More I·, which was presented on Tuesday. Prime Ministers tend to want to go through reform, that is not new, but of course we have an expectation on the part of the SF that this time it is different, because there we do not take away from those who have the least and give to those who have the most. We've tried that, we've been there, and it's not working. I would like to pay tribute to many of the initiatives in the reform programme, and I would really like to do so. We have long fought for more security in the benefit system, for investment in the education system and for a fight with spouse dependency. However, the deterioration in young people's unemployment benefit rates after completion of training and the general focus on labour supply have passed the target. The lack of labour is not our biggest problem in Denmark • It is not the other day the Prime Minister was met with brave applause when she promised to the Danish Business Annual Meeting business answers to a lack of labour, but she did not mention that it is largely the employer's own responsibility and own fault, for there are still large parts of the industry that do not take in any apprentices. In my 10 years in the Danish Parliament we have talked about internships and missing apprenticeships every year. Voluntary agreements have been made with the industry which are not being respected. Employers owe 10 000 work placements which they have agreed to set up themselves. A total of 16,000 young people are missing an internship. So when the Prime Minister talks about the 45,000 young people who are neither in education nor jobs, it is some of the young people who have given up training in advance or dropped out when the internship was not there. Now we hear that, after they have done what we ask them to do and have rushed through the training, young people must also be cut in the daily allowance, and this at a time when employment is historically high, when parts of the parent generation have skipped cream on the stock market, in residential shops, and where the corona crisis has claimed a high price for young people. The housing market in the large cities is closed to those they have been repatriated from the courses, and too many have been sitting alone behind the screen, too many have been lonely, and now they must also put up with a story that they are lazy and snobbed. Frankly, I don't think that's okay. Denmark is not in crisis economically. In a technical word, the economy is viable and the finances are at the heart of health, but a large number of organisations and civil parties have managed to paint a picture of a country in crisis. In fact, I think that the Prime Minister and our Finance Minister should take their backs and say out loud: we did it and we did not just do it because we did it very well. Employment has never been higher, the economy thunders out there, we have a problem, it is in the luxury class: the risk of overheating the economy is understood. Let me tell you what the real problem is. It's about our planet, and it's about a half-forgotten climate crisis. According to the U.N., we're heading for 4.5 degrees of warming. With 4.5 degrees of warming, the world looks quite different. 8 million more cases of dengue fever in Latin America, the consequences of floods in India will be 20 times worse than today, up to 60 times worse in Britain. The economic damage to climate - driven disasters will amount to DKK 4 billion. It is twice as much wealth as there is in the world today. There will be a permanent food shortage, and wars and conflicts will multiply as a result of 200 million climate refugees. We can build a wall around Europe, but we cannot keep 200 million people out. It's a real problem. However, although the government proclaimed the climate crisis to be the most important agenda in our understanding paper, the Prime Minister at the annual meeting of Danish Business said that the lack of labour is more important than anything else, including the green transition. Here the government is failing its most important task: to show a way to another and better society and to a new economy where equality and security go hand in hand with sustainable development. This requires changes, radical and extensive changes that reverse inequality and repair the gaps in our social security networks and give young people opportunities instead of taking away from them. It takes more than the world's most boring financial law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909112655	Thank you. Then there are a number of brief comments. First, it's sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909112701	Thank you. Thanks for the speech. I was actually going to ask a little bit about the graduation and the whole discussion we're going to have. Is it an ultimate requirement from the SF that nothing should happen in relation to the graduating area?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909112719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909112720	We have learned a long time ago that it is a really bad idea to say that anything is ultimate. What I'm saying today and I think I'm saying it pretty clearly is what we mean in the SF. We think this is a bad idea. Studies have also been made. I think it was Nordea's consumer economist who did a study that showed that you actually get poorer on unemployment benefits than you were on su because you lose your dorm room and your student job and other things that you do while you are a student. This isn't just about whether it's a sin for the individual. We should remember, therefore, that the graduation rate is a much, much lower rate of unemployment benefit than if you generally go on unemployment benefit. It's not just about whether it's a pity for anyone. It is about the fact that our unemployment benefit system has been eroded for far too long. Backup's falling. Private wage insurance is increasing in number. So if we also want a benefit system in the future, we have to repair it. We're not gonna hollow it out, and we're gonna get the kids into it at an early age.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909112826	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen? No more follow-up. Then it's Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909112827	Thank you very much. The rapporteur has said that the green area is an important priority, and we in the Radical Left are very much in agreement on this. However, the rapporteur also talks a lot about labour shortages and that we do not need to spend so much time on that. Nevertheless, the rapporteur mentions that employment is historically high. However, on the part of the Radical Left, we do not think that we can simply say that employment is high and that we have done well on top of the corona crisis, and otherwise just look very hard at companies asking for labour. So I would really like to hear if SF doesn't have any suggestions as to how we can solve the acute shortage of labour there is. And then I agree that the SF gives a different priority and does not see it as the main or second or third most important problem, but that the problem is there, yes, it may be that perhaps that is what I should first ask, i.e. whether the SF's rapporteur does not recognise that the problem is there. And what are we really going to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909112931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909112932	Yeah, that's a problem. This is a problem in line with other major problems. But this is not the biggest problem in our society. And political capital is a zero-sum game. If you throw all your strength into saying that this is the most important thing and that here we have to use all our political forces, then there are not the same political forces and often not the same economy to do anything about the really big problems. The fact that we have a welfare society, we spend a lot of money on, but how historically many young people are hurting in life; where people are lonely. We spend a lot of money on our care for the elderly, but we have old people who die without having anyone around them that they know well. And we have a climate crisis and it seems that it is just such another problem in line with other problems. That is what I am arguing against. Lack of labour is a problem. This is a problem we have to solve in line with other problems such as our education system, but that is not the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909113044	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909113045	With all due respect, there was no answer to the question I asked. What is SF going to do to solve this acute problem that we have with labour shortages? Because I hear in the answer that it is recognised that there is a problem, yes, in line with some other problems, the rapporteur thinks. But what will the SF actually do? In the Radical Left, we do not believe that we can simply stand on the platform and say that it is the companies' own responsibility and their own fault. On the contrary, we have some solutions. We see the acute problem, for example. that foreign labour can help solve. What exactly does the SF say?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909113119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909113120	However, unlike the Radical Left, we do not want to make labour supply reforms that take away from those who already have the very least, or import labour from the Third World, which can act as wage printing. In the SF, we think that we should solve some real problems that are at work, for example. With sick absence being a gigantic problem. Bad working environment is a gigantic problem. There we could really, really create something, and also, if we are to talk about labour supply: yes, there are some huge effects there. And then we have 16,000 kids who can't find an internship. I simply cannot understand why the Radicals, who otherwise call themselves an educational party, do not think it is a gigantic problem. Only employers are responsible for this because we have an alternance training system in Denmark, and it is their responsibility to provide the internships.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909113213	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909113216	Thank you. I would like to ask the SF's rapporteur here today about what we discussed earlier in the debate: the fact that the Socialists and the government suddenly bought a centre at Langeland, which should have criminal foreigners who have not been sent back to their respective countries, even though they should have been repatriated a long time ago. There the Socialist rapporteur said here today that the reason why Parliament was not consulted before paying the 13.5 million. kr., as the price was for the center at Langeland, was that the price would rise if it was the case that one was going to involve the Folketing in that decision. I would like to hear from Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen whether the SF agrees that the Folketing should not be sworn in when the government decides to spend 13.5 million. kr. to a refugee center on Langeland.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909113316	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909113317	Now, quite frankly, I do not really have the knowledge to answer qualified. 'Cause I actually think that, uh... Peter Skaarup deserves a fair answer. Actually, I don't know. Sir. Peter Skaarup has also been on the Finance Committee, and there we often have secret files, and the reason they are secret until they come into force is that otherwise the price can rise or other things can happen; there are market considerations, etc. But I don't think that's it, sir. Peter Skaarup is talking about. I don't think sir. Peter Skaarup talks about the 13 million. kr. I think, sir. Peter Skaarup talks about whether the Folketing should be involved in where it should lie, and not so much what it costs. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909113400	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909113401	Yeah, well, I kind of talk about both things. I thought it was completely irresponsible. When the Socialists promise to create a solution for these people, who are deep criminals and are threatening the environment, they must of course respect it, and then they must find a place that can have them until they can be sent home. Because they have to, they all agree they have to. Having said that, it is also quite crucial that you do not pay an overpriced There I just want to hear SF: is it reasonable that the government should pay an overpriced first and then come and say that it would have become even more expensive if it were to take up the parties of the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909113447	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909113448	With all due respect, Peter Skaarup, isn't it a little a substitute discussion? I really don't think sir. Peter Skaarup is so worried about the 13 million. kr., which a government can use to buy a building. Again, I think it's about Mr. Peter Skaarup would like to see the Folketing involved in this discussion about where the exit centre should be, and I think that is quite reasonable. This is a very political discussion. But once again it is primarily the responsibility of the government in office at all times that such a place should be found. Now there could just not be a majority behind the proposal there was.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909113526	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909113528	The government will reduce the daily allowance for newly trained and newly trained people. It is an undermining of an unemployment benefit system which already hangs in a thin thread after many years of deterioration and erosion. I think if people stopped and wondered if it would be financially profitable to be part of the benefit system today, many would leave the system. So critical a situation is our benefit system in. I heard what Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen said from the platform about the SF's position on the graduating movement, and thank you for that. I can say on behalf of the Enhedslisten that the proposal made by the government on the erosion and deterioration of the graduation rate is inedible. We will not be supporting this. I want to know if SF also has that position and is ready to stand cargo and burst with Enhedslisten all the way, so that we can put maximum pressure on the government to remove the miserable proposal from the reform proposal put on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909113626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909113626-2	First of all, I would like to say that I share Mr. Rune Lund's analysis of our benefit system, and that's not just what you and I are talking about. It is well documented, and it is a system that is so hollowed out that one can well fear for the future of it. One would also think that there were employers and businesses out there who were worried about it, because it is quite a crucial part of our Danish system of flexicurity. In relation to the second question, it was another way of asking whether it is ultimate for SF. And again, I'm going to say that we don't use it. At least I don't want to stand up here and tell you what it is. I'll take that with my parliamentary group. But I can say, and I hope I say it very clearly: we think it is a very bad idea. We think it's an unsolidarian idea. We think it is based on the false premise that one goes from having a low income on su to a very high income on benefit. And then we also think that it is devastating in terms of confidence in the benefit system.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909113738	Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909113739	It is not really a question of whether it is an ultimate requirement or whether it is not. It is a question of whether SF's will be ready to vote in favour of the proposal put forward by the government or something that just reminds us of it. I would like to make this very clear: we cannot accept it on the part of the Enhedslisten. And it's very important where SF places itself here. Because if the SF and the Enhedslisten can stand together, I assume that the Radicals will also have an interest in being involved, and then we have suddenly put political pressure that might actually mean something. So it would be nice to have a very clear statement from Parliament's speaking chair that this is something we stand together about.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909113820	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909113822	I'd like to say to Mr. Rune Lund: All respect, but I just don't negotiate bilaterally with you here from Parliament's platform. We have been called for negotiations and, no, we are not voting for the government's proposal as it stands, because then there was nothing to negotiate. We are going into these negotiations with the things we think are important in order to unpick the things that we think are thistles or the bad cream in the cake, as my President called it. We are going to the negotiations with that. And I do not know if I am not saying this clearly enough: we think it is a very bad idea, we think it is devastating for the benefit system, and we think it is unsolidarous.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909113858	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909113859	When some people say that there is a problem here and that we should solve that, there are always some other people who have the irresponsible argument and I put it in quotation marks, because that is not an argument that it is not the biggest problem in the world. It is as if you are only dealing with the biggest problem in the world and all other problems you just leave behind. We have 45 rapporteurs listed on the Danish Parliament's website. If we could settle only for the biggest problem, according to the SF, we should have only one climate rapporteur, everyone should be climate rapporteur all the time, but we are also dealing with other things. And that is why I ask SF about the fact that we have thousands of unskilled jobs in Denmark, which many of the unemployed can well be in and can handle, but which these unemployed people do not at the same time seek because they would rather wait for the dream position or because they would rather be unemployed than have these jobs. Isn't that a problem, and shouldn't we do something about it? And what does the SF want to do about it, that there are people who can contest these jobs that do not seek them and then stay in unemployment statistics?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114010	The climate crisis is our biggest problem... it's the actual one, but if mr. Ole Birk Olesen sits and shakes his head, it is simply because Mr. Ole Birk Olesen doesn't know enough about what's going to happen. So it's factual. That does not mean that we should not solve other problems, of course we should. And I also answered Mr Radicale's question as to whether this is a problem: yes, it is a problem. That's not what I'm standing up here talking on behalf of the SF, except when I talk about the climate, because that's where I speak from the knowledge that 99.999 percent. Of all the scientists in the world have, and they say: yes, these things are going to happen. So that's why it's the biggest problem. When it is also a problem that we lack hands, I have also said what some of our red labour supply reforms would be in relation to better working conditions, fewer accidents at work, the abolition of spouse dependency, etc. etc. I hear sir. Ole Birk Olesen... who might repeat the last part of his question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114126	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114127	Yes, a little more time was spent talking about what the biggest problem is. I would like to point out that we need to deal with problems other than those which the SF thinks it is and that is why I ask the SF and that is what the question is and which it should be possible to remember: Does SF, it is a problem that there are thousands of unemployed people who can contest the many unskilled jobs that are in Denmark, but that these unemployed people do not seek those jobs because they prefer to be available, and what does the SF want to do about that problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114202	Well, listen to me! I simply do not want to go into such a debate. We have historically high employment. There aren't hundreds of thousands of lazy people just flying around out there and not bothering to work. We've never had higher employment in this country. They were the ones who were fired first if they had a job; they were the ones who had the least experience and therefore couldn't get a job. This is why unemployment rose mostly among them as a group.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114238	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114239	It may well be that SF does not recognise the premise, but out in fact there was a cleaning company, the 5 Stars, which offered 450 posts. They could have two of them possessed. That's reality. These are not models or figures or supply statistics. It was just the reality that people said: No, I don't want that work. Does SF think it's fair that people say no? And if you do not think it is fair that we have a system in which people can actually say no, what will you do to change that system so that we can get these posts occupied by the people who are actually unemployed?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114317-2	I think people should take the job they're assigned to. And that is not just something I think is how our employment system is organized. I also think it is one of the things the debate has been going on in recent weeks that our job centres in many places, not everywhere, are doing a terrible job. It is SF's wish that we get rid of the job centres as they operate today, because we simply do not think that they do not provide a particularly good service or service to those who are unemployed. It's not fun to be unemployed. I know you're some people in here who paint a picture that it's just a free choice and that you just feel super duper when you're unemployed. But it is neither a very good help for those who are unemployed nor for those companies that need labour. I read that article with the transcribe of the conversation that had taken place, about what the criteria were for entering these cleaning jobs to the unemployed, and I think that we all think it makes no sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114423	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114424	What does the SF have with proposals for the Finance Act in relation to changing the job centres? Is this a closure of the job centres? Is that a rewriting of them? So, when you say it's not okay, do you have any specific bids for the financial law negotiations on it? There are 13 to 15 000 people employed in this whole area. It will also release something in relation to labour supply. So when you say that, do the job centers have to be shut down, or do they just have to get better? And how is the SF going to do so quite specifically, so that you don't just say that you want them to get better? What kind of proposals does the SF have so specifically for it to improve?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114459	Well, we have an excellent employment rapporteur who is sitting right here, and I do not have any figures on how many times Mr. Karsten Hønge has made a statement on this subject in relation to the fact that we want to reform our job centres if they are not to be closed down. We want us to spend the 4 billion. kr. spent driving them much smarter and much better. We want those who are insured to be taken care of in the cashiers. We want those who are sick to leave the job centres, because they do not belong there, as the job centres are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114536	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114537	Thank you. In the alternative, we agree that the climate crisis is the biggest challenge we have in our time. This is the one that will define our future, and if we are not careful, we look forward to millions, perhaps billions, of climate refugees fleeing from drought, fleeing floods, and very, very many other consequences. It seems that in this financial bill, less money has been set aside than last year for climate and nature measures. What's SF thinking about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114608	Well, we hear that when there is so little green, i.e. climate, nature and the environment, in this finance law, it's because there are these parallel negotiations that we know about: green tax reform, agriculture. And now there is also a reform programme in which the government proposes that one billion of the green area should be set aside per year. That's what we like to hear is the argument. But I do not think that these are good enough arguments. Because there are so many places where we have to put in, and as many things as you can color green, so to speak. So when we want more life, and I think there are many of us who agree with the government in relation to that ambition, I also praised the government for the very focus that is in the Finance Act on better balance between the country and the city, one could say: What can we do so that we create more sustainability, more rural life, which at the same time has some really positive effects too? In other words, constantly link the actions you want to take with how we make a more sustainable society out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114717	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114718	It is true that there is some surrounding legislation that may lead in a greener direction. It's hard to say exactly how it ends. But the UN Panel on Climate Change has told us that the climate challenge is going to be bigger than we knew. The summers in which we see climate change seem to be our own fault. Our CO2 We reach a temperature increase of 1.5 degrees faster than we thought. Will the SF be able to vote in favour of a financial law that crashes down on climate action now when the climate challenge only becomes more important?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114755-2	I hope that it was clear in my speech that I think that the climate crisis is the most important thing we have ever done. This does not mean that there are no other important problems and that we cannot focus enough on it, and we cannot get started quickly enough. Bill McKibben, who started the organisation 350 Years, which I am sure the rapporteur knows, and which is one of the world's top environmentalists, has said that winning slowly is the same as losing when it comes to the climate, because all the world's technologies, which will come in 20 years' time, cannot stop it. So we can't do enough fast enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114838	Thank you. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114840	Thank you. As you know, SF has the mayor's post at Langeland, and we also know the good Tonni. He was not just frustrated, he was both mad and furious when the government bought Holmegaard a few months ago in the gloom and darkness of the night, and then afterwards he thought of being able to get it started as an exit center. Fortunately, the whole of Langeland was almost at the Palace Square and everything, and it was also thwarted by a majority from here. Then everyone's counting on that case to be over. Then you might wonder why these buildings are still standing there. I know there are also some people who, in a private sense, are interested in buying these buildings. I have also noted today that I think that the government's rapporteurs were somewhat long in spitting compared to responding to what is actually going to happen with the intended exit centre on Langeland. So you could have such a sneaky idea whether it's gonna get sneaked in anyway. So my question to the SF's financial rapporteur now is: isn't it time now that the SF's financial rapporteur gets demands in these financial negotiations that the government should now sell that center so that it can be used for something sensible in real and practical life?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114952	Thank you. That is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909114953	Frankly, this is not one of my top priorities in the financial law negotiations. But I think Langeland would be a great place to place one of these business centres that the government has presented in their proposals for a reform programme that should focus on climate and green transition. After all, we have to make our agriculture sustainable, so it would also be a great place to have one, one can say the laboratory of reality, in terms of how we can have a green and sustainable agriculture. So maybe that's why it hasn't been sold. I don't know. I guess I'm the last person to know. It's just a good idea from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909115037	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909115038	But the deeper thinking I am raising now is also to make it absolutely clear that in the dark of night an exit centre should not be sneaked into Langeland. At least I could understand that at SF here in the Folketing last time. So I think there's about to be a lot of attention to it. If it could end up in some sort of form, now the SF's rapporteur says business centre or something that can also help create jobs, growth and employment in Langeland, then I think we will all be clapping our hands over it if otherwise it is something that makes sense to create real jobs in real life, if I may say so, so that we can create some real growth and employment. Now I have raised this with the SF rapporteur and will the SF rapporteur be very attentive? I understand that this is not a top priority, but will the rapporteur pay close attention to ensuring that there is no exit centre on Langeland?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909115128	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909115130	I am very aware of that, and I am convinced that it will not happen. I think it's really nice that Mr. Erling Bonnesen and I agree that it would be a good idea to have such a centre on Langeland that could ensure growth and employment and green conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909115147	Thank you. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909115152	I took note of Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen's comment on people from third countries. Wage printers from third countries were called without nuances. This means that all people who come here from the United States, New Zealand, Thailand, the United Kingdom, the Balkans outside the European Union, Eastern Europe and all of Asia are just paid printers. I find this sad to hear, and it does not really make sense when the Socialist People's Party thinks that 300 Afghan refugees should be brought here. I mean, if a company was possible, which it probably wasn't brought 300 Afghans here to work, it was quite awful, but if they come as refugees, it's okay. So I would really just like to give the Socialist People's Party rapporteur an opportunity to perhaps nuance the view of people outside the European Union who come here. They're all paychecks?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909115250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909115251	Now, of course, I know that the Radical Left is a business-friendly party that speaks well with the business community, and that is why I would like to say that I think it would be nice if some of the employers who would otherwise bring people from outside here were to come from Asia, or let us say from Afghanistan for the sake of argument, even though it is probably not likely to give jobs to the refugees who come here and which we also have a responsibility to ensure get going well. That's just not what I see. I do not see that the refugees who come here will have every chance on the Danish labour market. So it's just a little idea, sir. Andreas Steenberg can go back to the people he's talking to, so that it could be nice. Then I don't think I called these people pay guys. I'm saying they're being used for payroll printing, and I stand by that. And I actually think that in some parts of society we see it in a totally unacceptable, grotesque way. Can I just remind you of the Filipinos in the containers?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909115400	Thank you. Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909115401	The rapporteur is allowed to do so, and nobody agrees with that. However, when you say quite plainly that all people from third countries are being used as wage printers, that is not true. Moreover, it is not true that companies do not want to take in refugees. Unfortunately, there are many companies who are giving up on doing so, because the refugees are being expelled anyway, even though they are in work. I think we'll agree on that. But once again to give the rapporteur the opportunity to answer the question: is it really the SF's view that all people from third world countries are wage printers, all of them?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909115434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909115435	I would like to repeat myself and say that my focus is on the employers who, instead of giving work to Danes or to the people who live in Denmark, or to the 15 million unemployed Europeans who need a job, say: we go to the Philippines, Indonesia or where it is, and bring people up here. Then I think that often it is not always, but very often it is a question of wage printing. And especially when you do the trick of getting people here on false terms via Poland, I think it's gonna be really filthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909115514	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909115515	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech and for the replies so far. I would like to talk about some of what I might be afraid some would like to have to be part of the Finance Act for next year. It is about a 37-hour activation obligation and the government's ambition to suddenly send perhaps 20,000 people out to what could be equivalent to an hourly wage on the basis of what kind of benefit they are on, but let's say an integration benefit to someone who is over 30 years of age but is not a breadwinner. and carry out tasks such as cleaning, maintaining buildings and buildings, collecting garbage and such tasks. That's why I really want to hear SF: What kind of concern do you have? What do you think may happen if you suddenly send 20,000 people out as utility workers? What's gonna happen with $40? If you look at the basic law of the Service Agreement, well over DKK 136.? What are SF's concerns here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909115622	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909115624	40 kroner. I mean, it's really a bit an hour. It is almost as little as the Filipinos who lived in the containers down in South Jutland went to, because there have 3F figured out that they went to 20 DKK. I don't think I can say the name, but you all know it well... the transport company that's been in the media. We are concerned that there will be 1) wage printing, 2) displacement, i.e. taking some jobs that others might need or could do under normal conditions. Generally speaking, we see some problems in having to go out and do these so-called utility jobs. We have said before from the SF that this is a difficult discussion, because we want to, I think, all help people who can do a job in jobs. And every case is an individual, because every person can box with a few different things.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909115737	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909115739	Thank you. In fact, the bee project of a research project in Denmark is world-renowned, because so many people have been asked, and it has been so thorough about this very subject: How do we get, for example. migrant women in work? There we see precisely that utility jobs are a really bad way of doing it. So I would like to ask SF if you share the concern that it can actually help to make you become even more alienated from being able to get a job. And one of the things the report shows is that we have to do training, real jobs, so actually make a match that makes sense. What kind of things do SF we think we can do instead of • and there I totally agree with those who exploit jobs and state social dumping?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909115819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909115820	Just so that I do not sound as if I totally disagree with the aim of the government, I would like to clarify the point of view: we think that it is a declaration of failure that, for example, there is a situation in which there is a lack of transparency. are women with a non-western background who are largely not on the labour market or particularly a part of Danish society. It is not to beat them in the head; it is simply from a feminist perspective that we want everyone to be a part of Denmark. People fight with different things, and so do some of these women. And for some of them it is simply language skills or other things. We do not think that people should live so many years in Denmark and, for example, in Denmark. don't learn Danish, so it's a completely basic place to start.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909115915	Thank you. Then the last person to sign up for a brief comment, Mr President. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909115919	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I also included in my own rapporteur's speech minimum standards in the area of day-care. SF has fought a lot for this, and congratulations on having managed to get it. SF has the same concern as we do, since there is now a legal requirement in the area of children in the municipalities. It is a municipal core task to care for our children, but the primary school area and the older area are also core tasks in the municipalities. And now that you have a statutory minimum requirement in the area of day care, is the SF not nervous that it can take labour and standards from, for example, the primary school or the older area? And the elderly are an area as if someone were screaming for labour, also because there are more customers in the store. Is this something that the SF wants to take into account in the budget negotiations now, that is to say to fight a little for the elderly too, since they have fought the children's cause?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909120009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909120010	I thought for a moment that Mr. René Christensen thought that the educators who work with the children could be used for the elderly, and I would warn against that, because there is, after all, a great deal of professionalism here. I am not an expert in the area of the elderly. I would like to say that first. However, I know that we have some major challenges in attracting enough sosus and enough care staff. Now, just before our employment rapporteur, and right behind him, our older rapporteur, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, who is so much fighting night and day for the elderly, sits for their conditions, and not only for the number of hands warm and cold, but also for the dignity of care for the elderly, which I also know the Danish People's Party really cares about, that is, that there should be more dignity in the care of the elderly. And some of this is about more hands, and something else is about coherence. One of the things we've had on the Finance Act for several years is this having permanent teams so that you don't have to meet a new person all the time, which you have to explain your needs to once again. It costs some money, and we dropped them off.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909120122	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909120123	Yes, but what I asked you about is the elderly area, and I hope that the rapporteur is interested in it. When there are more customers in the store and there are; there are more older people who cost some money, and the government has also tried to set a framework. And the municipalities must give priority to their resources out there, but they can no longer give priority to children because it is legal. And the SF has helped to ensure that in the area of children, in the area of day care, priority can no longer be given; there is a legal requirement for there to be that regulation. There does not need to be in the area of the elderly, and there does not need to be in the area of primary education. So does the rapporteur not see that there is a challenge in taking out one area and saying that here we define from a central point of view what the standards should be, and not in the other areas? So you can starve the other areas not in all 98 municipalities, but it can happen in some.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909120209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909120210	I am not afraid that in the long term we will starve the area, because this government right now I would like to praise the government, and I hope that the Minister for Finance will listen because he does not think that I have in fact put forward a proposal for a welfare law which will ensure that when more elderly people and more children arrive, the money will also follow. And with all due respect, I would like to say that DF has supported bourgeois governments that year after year have starved the public sector and that have not delivered the money that was needed when we have this demographic move when there are more young and older. It is historic that there will now be a welfare law that will hold hands under the areas, so that by law the money will be accompanied by the cost.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909120256	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen. There are no more brief comments to the SF rapporteur. Now we have a lunch break until 8:00. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I'm here to postpone the meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909125955	The sitting is resumed. We are moving forward with the rapporteurs, and we have come to Mr Beazley's report. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909130007	Thank you. Year after year, decade after decade we have increased the number of people in employment in Denmark. Ever since our constitution with the duty of education, we have raised the education and opportunities of our citizens. It has created a society with strong and globalised businesses and the possibility of a welfare society with free and equal access to health, education and a social safety net. We must move forward, because we are facing great challenges. This applies to the climate and what I would call outside, where we see primary school in particular as one of the most important areas to work with in the coming decade. In our school, too many children and young people are miserable. Every six children leave school without basic skills in reading, billing and spelling. For me, as a social liberal, freedom is not just about forging one's own happiness. Many people do not have the conditions to forge their own happiness. It is sad to see how we do not break the negative social heritage. Unfortunately, children's background largely determines their future. In order that we can all live a free and meaningful life and not end up in a life of cash assistance outside the communities, we must have strengthened our primary school. We have proposed to set the primary school free and remove all the rules and requirements that weigh on the work and, above all, the well-being of children and young people. Instead, we want to manage primary school simply after more people thrive and more get basic skills when they leave school, instead of process requirements, tests and everything else. And then we will invest as much as 4 billion. kr. Annually in the whole area of children and young people, including: to a child's promise; a promise that well-being, play and learning should focus instead of rules, tests and processes. Of course, we will try to get the most out of it when we have to negotiate financial law and have all sorts of other negotiations this autumn. There is also a need to think about climate change. Extreme weather, crazy warm degrees in North America to southern Europe, forest fires around the world, clouds and tornadoes in Denmark, deadly floods: Should we continue, or should we do something fundamentally different and think new? In the Radical Left, we have noticed that our business community has shown a way with so-called climate partnerships. If we as a society come up with investment and set a framework, business is ready with its own money on top of that. I think it is strong that a whole business community has offered in this way. Thank you. This shows that they take responsibility and that green conversion can also be a business model and an opportunity for Danish business, as we have seen in particular in the area of green energy. In the Radical Left, we would like to use this autumn to show action here at the Castle and get as many of the initiatives that are in the climate partnerships launched as possible. In order for us both to strengthen primary school and to think new and green, it requires both more people in the economy and, above all, funding. Danish Energy expects a total of 290,000 years' work to be used to achieve our climate goals by 2030. That is why we continue to oppose the decision to spend as much as 3 billion. kr. 10,000 older people who can work can retire instead. They're needed. With the action taken the other day by the government, employment goes into zero overall, and this seems to us to be in very great contrast with previous governments that increased employment. We think we could look at the tax area, where we have specifically proposed to relax or reduce the interest allowance on housing and then instead use that income to ease tax on work. We also think that we could look at international recruitment • people outside the country who can come here and work from day one and solve some of the challenges identified by our business community. We also think that you could look at the whole area of the elderly, where there is now a retirement pension, a senior job scheme, a senior pension for worn-out and this early pension, which is called Arne. Is there really a need for all four systems to the extent we see? Or could you look at the four schemes? We think so. Overall, there is a need for a willingness to think new and to think more strongly if we are to strengthen the primary school and resolve the climate crisis and resolve the lack of people in our economy. We look forward to the debate shortly and to the negotiations with all the parties of the Folketing during the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909130603	Thank you. As I said, there's a maximum. 45 minutes to debate now here. The first person I think I have here is sir. Troels Lund Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909130614	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech, which in many ways actually, I think, has many good tactics in it. What I think might be interesting to learn a little bit more about is the level of ambition that the Radical Left may have in relation to the current negotiations. After all, one thing is the government's ambition level. However, as I mentioned myself in my speech, the government is doing so by covering the gap which has been created, as the rapporteur has actually said. But what does the Radical Left say about the outcome of the negotiations that are coming and, above all, what is the level of ambition of the Radical Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909130657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909130658	I would be as bold to say: as much as possible, if we think that is sensible. We pointed out in the spring that 30,000 could be a target for extra people in the economy. But if you can agree on more or less, which is sensible and there is a majority in favour, then of course we will go into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909130716	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909130718	I think it is very sensible to have a higher level of ambition. Then it has also come out today that even with what the government is doing now, you are actually still poorer by 2030 than you would have been if the status quo had been kept in relation to what was the case when the government took over the government power. Is it also the view of the Radical Left that something needs to be done about it, so that by 2030, at least, we are at least at the same level as was provided for back in 2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909130752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909130753	Yes, of course, and that is what was also at the heart of my speech: if we want to do something in the area of climate and education, especially the primary school, then it requires the total cake to be bigger. The very great accident that has occurred is, after all, this new pension scheme, which is where the socio-economic damage has really been done. Fortunately, our two parties agree on this, and we both have the challenge that the Danish People's Party, on the one hand, and the Social Democrats and the Left, on the other hand, have unfortunately adopted it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909130825	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909130828	Thank you. When I stood on the platform an hour ago, Mr. Andreas Steenberg me, if I looked at foreign labour as wage printers, understood I heard it as someone who like came to Denmark and just wanted to mess with our system. My view is that there are some employers who are using some people from poor countries to come here and that it will be pay-pressing in that way. I know that the Radicals also want more foreign labour from third countries, and I am just curious to hear why, in addition to the Danish labour force available, not 1 out of the 15 million unemployed Europeans could fill those jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909130925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909130926	I do not think that one excludes the other. If you can lure some Spaniards to Denmark and work, then peace be with it, but if there are some from Ukraine or a very third country who can come here, then they should be welcome. And whether you are a Dane, a Spaniard, a Ukrainian or whatever you are, you obviously have to be treated properly in the labour market, and that is where we fortunately have, I think, an excellent model of labour law and the social partners, which organise themselves and provide for orderly conditions, and we must, of course, stick to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909130959	Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131000	Now we have had the opportunity to get printed, whether our labour market and our Danish model are strong enough, because we have just had a trial in which a number of Filipinos lived under very ugly conditions in container camps in South Jutland. I do not know how the radical rapporteur feels, but I do feel that, of course, the courts are always right, but that gave rise to thought, as to whether our legislation is well put together, because it ended up having virtually no consequence to let poor people live very, very unworthy and seemingly work at a very low salary.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131037	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131038	It had the important consequence that a very broad majority here in the Folketing adopted a law precisely in the area of good, which this case was about, which ensures a minimum wage. It was a little interesting, I think it must have been for the left to go in with legislation and set the salary, but we then chose to do so because the level of organisation was so low in that area. It is an interesting debate which is probably a little bigger than what we can take today, whether it is going to happen in other areas, because there are, of course, some problems to be solved, but I do not think this means that foreigners should not come and work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131114	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131116	In the reform proposal put forward by the government, the government is proposing to destroy a substantial part of our unemployment benefit system, namely the security of the labour market for newly trained and newly trained people. And I would really like to hear what the Radical Left intends to do about it. The position of the Enhedslisten is clear: we believe that it should be removed from the table. I would like to hear what the position of the Radical Left is. I know that the Radical Left is incredibly pleased with theoretical labour supply in the accounting machine of the Ministry of Finance. And then my question is: what is most important is the theoretical supply of work in the Treasury calculator, or that we continue to have a proper benefit system for graduates?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131204	Now we're not so concerned about the theorists in the Ministry of Finance. But we can see through history, as I mentioned in my speech, that a great many of the reforms that have been carried out have made Denmark richer and stronger. So we're preoccupied with that. As far as the model is concerned, we note that a great deal of the money must go to education. And of course we are interested in that, just as Enhedslisten is. And it may be that the graduating rate must be part of it. But the model that the government has put forward, we think we're too hard. We can see from the figures that many are unemployed in the first few months. Typically, you may be graduated in June, and you may not be interviewed until after the summer vacation and then perhaps a job start towards New Year. That is why we would like to discuss a stair model with the government, which will certainly start higher. Because when you quit a studio, you lose your student job. You can't have that with cash benefits. You also have to move out of your dorm, and it may not be up to you to get a job right away. So we'd like to discuss whether you can make another model for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131306	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131307	That's an interesting point of view. This gives rise to a few comments on my part. When we talk labour supply here at Christiansborg, it means one thing, and we all know that: it means theoretical labour supply in the Treasury calculator. So my question is: after all, what is the most important thing for the Radical Left? That there is a theoretical supply of 10 000 in the Treasury calculator or that there will be a guarantee of graduates? If you have to choose between the model that Mr. Andreas Steenberg presents here, and 10,000 in theoretical labour supply in the Ministry of Finance's calculator, what is most important?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131345	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131347	I have to arrest that premise that we care about some theory and something going on in the Ministry of Finance. We care that we have a strong society where there are people to make our climate action and where there are people for our businesses so they can develop. And so there is also some money we can invest in some of what we want to invest in. That's what we care about. And that's where we're gonna go, for example. international labour force, even though the Ministry of Finance refuses to count it in. And we are counting in employment and not in whether it fits in equally. And that's why I'm not buying the premise for the question, sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131421	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131424	When I hear Radicals interpret economic policy, I am basically in agreement, and the Conservative People's Party is largely in agreement. There is a radical left: you want to keep taxes down somewhat, you want more Danes to get to work so that Denmark can become a richer country, but want a green transition and many other good things. Then I just wonder why the Radical Left isn't doing anything about it. Because I can also stand and shout and scream and demand all sorts of things that are not being implemented. But I have the excuse that I do not have the mandates for it, and it does not have the Radical Left, because the Radical Left is crucial to what economic policy is being implemented in Denmark. Because the moment that the Radical Left says it will not be a part of this, there will have to be a different policy. The Radical Left is again and again entering into financial laws with the government, which lowers labour supply, which raises taxes and makes Denmark poorer. Can you maintain self - respect without doing anything about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131533	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131533-2	You can, because you have to recognise that there is no majority. And that, sir. Rasmus Jarlov and other bourgeois people forget that the second largest bourgeois party is known as the Danish People's Party, and they have quite a different economic policy than I do. That is also why there could be a majority for this new pension scheme with the Danish People's Party, the government and the two left-wing parties, and that is what is both the Conservative People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Left and my party's challenge: we do not have 90 seats. Otherwise, I think that our parties could make reasonable economic policy agreements, including perhaps the Christian Democrats and the New Citizens' Party. There are just no 90 seats. So our challenge is the same, sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131620	Rasmus Jarlov, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131622	But it isn't. Because we are not signing agreements that undermine Denmark's economy, just as the Radical Left does every year when they enter into financial agreements with the government, which raise taxes and reduce labour supply. Because of agreements reached by the Radical Left, the supply of labour is now lower than it was two years ago when the government came and the Radical Left became a majority. So the Radical Left is the reason why we go backwards in economic policy. So why do you continue to sign agreements that are bad, also following the Radical Left's own interpretation?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131659	We didn't sign the new pension. We are not a part of that, but there is a majority in favour of it, so that is why it is wrong when Mr. Rasmus Jarlov says that we are making agreements that reduce growth and labour supply. It is true that we removed the training ceiling, which has a small effect. We need to pick that up. But the big lump in the last two years since this parliamentary election was a deal we weren't part of and where we agree with Conservatives. But Conservatives have the same problem, because what is going to be your support party, namely the Danish People's Party, also voted for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131734	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131736	Thank you. I would like to ask a few questions about the job centres, because it is a very, very expensive and great constellation we have. Overall, it is somewhere between 13,000 and 15,000 people who are employed there. We can, of course, look at a large number of parameters that companies do not use them, they are expensive, and those who use them think they are being chased around in it. In New Citizens we would like to take a fight and try and create a new structure around it. Is that something Radicals could see themselves in?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131803	I'd love to. A little like I talked about with the primary school, you could consider it perhaps a loose thought here on an early Thursday afternoon and say that it might be that you should manage the job centres and the entire employment effort and the social effort, by the way, on the basis of whether it worked to get people into jobs, instead of different procedural rules. It could be something we could sit down and go through.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131828	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131832	Thank you. What we in the New Citizens' Party have quite specifically proposed is, for example, to take it away from the municipal area, where there is not the right incentive structure, and then to move it into, for example, the city. A voucher model so that you can play into it, and then it is only paid out when people, for example. has been in permanent employment for six months, so the bonus will be paid to the companies and the people who have helped you to get to work so a no-cure-no-pay system in this way. Then you will have the right financial incentive structures.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131858	I think it sounds interesting, let's take a look at it. If it works and does something good for people to experience the dignity I believe it is to be able to earn their own money and have freedom, then I am willing to look at it. Let's go into it with our eyes open.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131913	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131915	Now there was not so much about the climate in the rapporteur's speech, although something is always there. I want to hear something about the financial bill. Now it looks as if there will be much less money for climate action and for nature initiatives than there was last year. Is that something that the Radical Left will be able to accept, that is, that we spend less money on the climate of the Finance Act when the challenge is escalating?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909131943	I now think I mentioned two issues, one of which was climate, so I do not entirely agree with the interpretation that I did not mention the climate. But I understand that this is a big priority for the alternative, so let's give it another trip: No, of course something needs to happen to the climate. I think it should be borne in mind that there is also an agricultural debate going on next to, or at the same time with, the financial law negotiations, or how to say it, and now there will also be some negotiations on this issue. Denmark can make more proposals that have been made by the government, and where, I understand, there is also a proposal to allocate 1 billion. kr. to the climate area. That is why we can do something about the climate without it being on the Finance Act. We think it is extremely important to set binding targets for agriculture, and we would also like some money to be spent on making the investments and also making some of the regulations for agriculture that are needed. That's where the big climate struggle is for me this fall.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132040	Sir. Torsten Gejl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132042	In other words, it is now the case that we are on the way to a really bad agricultural agreement in which we are unable to reduce meat production at all. It is clear that there are ongoing climate agreements, the last many have not ended very well, but now this is a financial bill debate, and the rapporteur is hardly reassured by the new UN climate panel report, which says that the weather changes we are watching on television have been created by us and that we are on our way to a 1.5-percent increase much faster than we thought. Is Radical thinking that you can make a Finance Act that is less green than last year?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132124	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132126	I fully agree that these figures show that action must be taken now. Then it's just a little christiansborgfnid, whether it's just in an agricultural agreement or in a financial agreement. I don't really care what kind of deal it is, as long as something happens. Of course, we're looking at it together. Now there will probably be three agreements, a finance agreement, an agricultural agreement and an agreement on this, and Denmark can do more, and overall it must of course show that climate action is being taken of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132153	It's Marie Bjerre, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132157	Thank you. Now I understand from the debate that the Left, with the exception of the Alternative, would very much like to discuss higher public services, but as new climate rapporteur for the Left, I would very much like to discuss the priorities of climate policy in the government's financial bill. We now had a technical review last week and it became quite clear that no more money has been allocated to the green conversion. Nor is there any new means of reducing CO2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132232	Of course we are not, but as I also answered Mr. Torsten Gejl, is the great debate in the agricultural negotiations, because that is where we really think the government, and indeed the Left too, is too foot-to-to-mouth, because agriculture is one of the great emitters of CO2 but it is clear that it is a conversion that needs to be started and, if it is not to be to close things and tear away the curtain under people, then we have to start a conversion, and that requires investment. And there we must help each other in our two parties to make some investments in agriculture, in the green conversion of agriculture, in the negotiations, because that is where we put a great deal of focus. Then it may well be that the agricultural negotiations will be part of the financial law negotiations or vice versa, as we shall see.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132327	Marie Bjerre, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132328	It sounds like the Radical Left is parking its climate policy in the agricultural negotiations. I actually thought you were a little more ambitious than that. Can it really be true that, as a support party to the government, you are satisfied that you set aside exactly 0 DKK. to climate policy on this budget bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132348	No, we are not satisfied with that, but I just note that there are two other stages of negotiations where it is possible to get money set aside for climate change, and it all has to be seen together, Mrs Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132358	Then it's Mrs. Halime Oguz, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132402	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. The companies lack manpower and instead of upgrading our own unemployed, the Radical Left wants foreign labour, and then I get so curious about how the Radical Left will ensure that the workforce has the necessary qualifications.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132425	Now it is not instead of "it's such an image that you want to draw in the Socialist People's Party. One doesn't rule out the other. We also have a proposal to upgrade the people who are unemployed in Denmark, because of course we must also try to get them into work. After all, many of the people have different challenges, whether it is a lack of integration, a history of abuse or a history of different diseases. So, of course, we have to do it too. One does not exclude the other. If 10,000 people come from outside and work in Denmark, it may help to finance that we can do something for the others. So it's all connected. It is not instead; it is part of an overall economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132505	Halime Oguz, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132506	[Sound emission]... How will the Radical Left ensure that the foreign labour we get here to Denmark has the necessary qualifications? After all, there are some countries outside the EU where you can raise a diploma in a machine à sous machine, and it can become very dangerous if you get a cook from, for example. India or Turkey, which do not have the necessary knowledge. This could be very dangerous, so I would like to know how to ensure that they have the necessary competences.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132544	I'll answer that now. I just have to attack that premise that we don't care about those who are in the country, because of course you have to try to get them to work too. I think it's very clever. Well, if you know that there are certain types of things being pulled into a vending machine, then we have a governing body that can reject it. The second is, of course, that I also believe that the owners of a restaurant that serves food will fire the person who says he is a cook but who cannot cook. I wonder if he'll get fired, because everyone must have an interest in cooking if that's what you're hired for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132618	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132620	Well, we think it is quite excellent that the Radical Left will help to set the income limit and get some foreign labour and also get some more Danish hands on the labour market. And there, before the summer break, we have seen such a little romance between the political leader from the Radical Left and Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, and here after the summer vacation it was with Mr Ellemann-Jensen. Søren Pape Poulsen, we think that a joint reform proposal, which may be a little unambitious, was made, but which has some really good tactics. I'd like to sign for that. Problem, sir. Andreas Steenberg, is just that if the Radical Left doesn't take the consequence of this, of that attitude, and points blue after the next parliamentary elections, then it won't happen; then it's a free round. That is why my question today is this: is the Radical Left prepared to point to a prime minister from a blue party after the next elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132727	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132728	We'll see about that. What is the problem with the so-called blue side is that the second largest party is called the Danish People's Party. As I was just debating with mr. Rasmus Jarlov overheard Mr. Jens Rohde did not, because he was not here, the problem is that even if the V, KF, the Christian Democrats, the Liberal Alliance, the New Civil and Radicals go together, then we do not have 90 seats. So if we pointed blue, like Mr. Jens Rohde calls it, there would still be no 90 mandates for those reforms. We must bring either the Social Democracy or the Danish People's Party, and we must then see what can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132804	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132806	Now it is always a good idea to stand in your own right, and now I have seen for myself what it's like to eat a number of forest snails when you sit in the radical parliamentary group, because there are things you have to live with, like, that there's a majority around someone who doesn't do it. That's the way it is, but it doesn't change this. We have to expect an answer at some point, and we must also know that it is perhaps very good for Mr Beazley. Søren Pape Poulsen and Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen to know whether there is a perspective in what Radicals are doing with the blue block.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132847	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132848	But that all depends on how much of our policy we can get through. That's the short answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132857	Then it's mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909132859	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I did not really expect that I would have asked so many questions, but I simply cannot help it. We are not a party to the support of the current government, yet we must stand here and hear that the Radical Left and the Alternative and the Left are saying: nothing is happening in the green area, because not enough money has been set aside at all and it is not moving at all. I mean, we've almost just walked out of a room where we've set the framework for how we're going to invest 210 billion. kr. It is therefore a huge project in which we are rolling out the framework for how it can be done. It's not like nothing's gonna happen. It's a strange competition where it's just about dropping the money off. I guess it's also important that we get something for the money we drop off. Now it has been done together widely, and Mr. After all, Andreas Steenberg's party was part of that agreement itself, and it is a huge project that moves green development. It is not just about money; it is also about setting a framework so that it can be done. I actually think that the Folketing across the parties is doing quite well, so you just shouldn't sit out there with some impression that nothing is happening in the green area, because there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909133006	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909133007	I hope I didn't use the word "nothing," because of course something happens. But we want more to happen. Well, that's because we're just like Mr. Kim. Torsten Gejl mentioned, can see how things are going very, very fast with global warming. We also believe, and this is why I am pointing out in my speech to climate partnerships and the Danish business community, that it can be a business opportunity, a competitive parameter, a business model to make green, CO2 So we think we should start and do more, but that does not mean that I give Mr. René Christensen is right that nothing has happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909133045	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909133046	It's just a little too bad when we have this debate on the green, because it's fast that it's the cheap solutions that have to be. Well, all electric cars are good. It's not like all electric cars are. There are some electric cars produced on oil and gas, and they are therefore less good than if you buy a European French car made on A power. It's also produced CO2 I just hope that we can get back to the fact that when we talk about global warming and we talk about climate and environment for that matter too, we also do what is right, and there I actually think that, fortunately in Denmark, when we may have come out of the Parliamentary Hall, we have actually started working quite well together in that direction too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909133121	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909133122	I am pleased that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party stands and welcomes what has happened. I think that is very good, and if I may say something a little polemical it is not always where the Danish People's Party has always been, so I think it is very good. What I think might be sensible was to take on board all the proposals that the Danish business community has made and then say: Well, let's go with them; let's get it started. Because that must be sensible and something our business community can see itself in. I think it would be very good if we could start looking at this both with the Financial Law Agreement and with financial law negotiations and other negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909133159	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909133201	Thank you. The Radicals have talked a lot about making reforms that could provide more hands. Now the government has played out with a reform proposal. I would like to see how the Radicals view this reform proposal, i.e. whether it meets the expectations that the Radical Left had of the government in relation to a reform proposal designed to provide more hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909133220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909133221	Now I'm radical, so I'll say both-and. We have an agreement with the government that you have to go to zero when you do an injury. That's what you try to do. But we would like a majority here in the Danish Parliament to dare to go further. This holds things up a little bit, but we can see if these negotiations can lead to either the Social Democracy or the Danish People's Party moving on with our two parties, so that we can do even more. I hope so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909133249	Louise Schack Elholm, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909133251	Should I understand that the Radicals would like to support this reform measure as it stands? For as I understood it, there were several thistles in what the Radical Left did not like. And as rapporteur for the Radical Left, Mr. Andreas Steenberg, standing here and saying, sounds like the Radical Left is supporting the reform proposal in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909133307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909133308	We do support much of it, but the whole of my speech, including my reply to the rapporteur for the Left, was then: yes, of course we must try to increase our ambitions. That's our approach to this. There are also some things we are opposed to, for example. increased taxation on investing.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909133324	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909133327	Thank you. It's gonna be a little bit like that. The Radicals, I understand, are one hundred percent opposed to raising the share income tax, i.e. higher taxes for entrepreneurs. I am really glad to hear that, because we have seen exactly the same thing from the Left. And I have to say that I have not heard any of the parties in the blue block take the proposal down positively; on the contrary, there has been considerable opposition to that proposal because it makes it more difficult to create investment, more difficult to attract capital to our businesses and more difficult to invest in the green conversion. Could we then, hopefully here today, make the government understand that if it wants to call for negotiations, it might as well take that proposal off the table, because there will not be a majority behind it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909133416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909133417	Yeah, I think they should do that, just like they did when they negotiated this so-called Arnepension. That's where it came from. And I'm gonna have to sign that, sir. René Christensen and the Danish People's Party for succeeding, I understand, to get it out of that debate, and let us see if we can succeed again.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909133432	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909133435	Thank you. We must then hope that the Minister of Finance listens and can see that there is a large majority in the Danish Parliament opposed to the government's proposal to increase the tax on investment in Danish companies, and I hope that the Minister of Finance will then go down and get rid of this, because there is no reason to have to spend time on the negotiations to discuss a proposal for which there is absolutely no majority in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909133458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909133459	Now I cannot give the floor to the Minister of Finance, but I can see that he is both writing down and listening, so let us see. Of course, we cannot negotiate an agreement here, but now a clear signal has been sent from our two parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909133510	I can comfort you by saying that at the end of the day we see the Minister of Finance on the platform. No one else has asked for short remarks, and so we thank Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg and goes further in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909133537	In Enhedslisten we work hard every day to draw Denmark in a more red, a more green and a more humanistic direction, and very much of it has fortunately succeeded. We have secured a hugely ambitious climate law and perhaps the biggest natural agreement in Danish history; we have helped to lead Denmark well through the Corona crisis; we have secured a massive welfare promise; we have introduced a consent law; we have got the children out of Soulsmark; and hopefully some of the children will soon return from the Syrian camps to name just a fraction of the agreements we have made in the last 2 years and which are good Unity List Policy. I am proud of the progress we have made, it is progress that improves the lives of ordinary people in Denmark, and I am proud that we in the Enhedslisten have more influence than ever. But we're gonna meet up with a big fall. The government is foot-drawn, old-fashioned and slow when it comes to the climate. The UN climate panel was published in early August with a spooky report showing that we are heading for climate chaos. Time has simply run out of government climate change. At the same time, it is absolutely essential that there be delivered in relation to the increasing inequality. As the Minister for Employment blew on the poor in the country in the spring, I would say, and since it is not a prestige project that the government called for to address the major and real poverty problems in Denmark, we had to draw a clear line in the sand. The government must deliver results for the poorest people in Denmark, which was one of the reasons why the government got the keys to the Prime Minister's Office: there must be a clear, clear and noticeable difference between the red and blue bloc in terms of poverty policy. The government will have to prove this in the near future. In relation to the financial bill that has been tabled, there are good initiatives, several good initiatives, in what the government has put forward. And even if the level of ambition is not where it should be, it is clear to everyone that there is a difference between the political majority that is now and that which, for example, is there. was there from 2015 to 2019. And when I stand here on Parliament's platform today, I cannot help thinking back to the debate we had last year at the same time, or for that matter at the opening debate at the opening of the Danish Parliament last year. And I remember both before and after. We have managed well through the crisis, but it is my clear experience that if there had not been a new majority in power after the June 2019 elections, we would not have managed the pandemic just as well, then there would not have been the necessary expansive policy, and more Laissez faire health policy would have been pursued. We have seen under corona how bourgeois parties tried to make it look irresponsible, that debt is being taken up, that we invest our way out of the crisis, even though it is common economic sense, although it has been a success. We have seen how bourgeois parties, both publicly and in the negotiating rooms, have to a large extent been reluctant, at best reluctant, in relation to the necessary decommissionings, while there has been an irresponsibility in pushing and would force a reopening through. If we had not obtained a new majority in the 2019 elections, there would undoubtedly have been a less expansive and more inequitable financial policy and more Laissez faire health policy, which had not least affected the most vulnerable in our society. It would not have been good for Denmark, and I would say that it actually runs me a little cold down my back at the thought of how things would have gone if we had not got a new majority in June 2019, but had got a dysfunctional VLAK government, which should have stood with responsibility for Denmark in its hands. I am glad that we got a new majority after the 2019 elections, and I think Denmark too can be happy about that. But the draft government bill is disappointing and unambitious. The green switch is missing. Nature and the climate are in crisis, so we need to have investments in green conversion now and not only when climate change has fallen over us. And our welfare suffers from many years of cuts and deterioration, so investment is needed. And if you want to slow down a little in the economy, there are other and better ways to do it than by allowing welfare and green conversion to last. We can, for example. remove the housing job scheme and make the wealthiest pay a fairer share to the community, after many years of having received one tax rebate after another and not least got it under the blue parties from 2015 to 2019, where tax reliefs were agreed, which will cost our society and the Treasury around 22 billion each year. kr. Every year, before the negotiations on the Finance Act started, the government has said that there was not enough money for an ambitious agreement. Both times it happened that the final agreement became more ambitious than the government itself had put forward, so we have thought from the Enhedslisten that this is the same course we shall have again this year, and we expect that we will have an agreement that is better than the one the government has put forward. We need to do more for the green transition, for dental health and equal pay, for the rights of the child and for people with disabilities. We got a new majority in 2019, a welfare majority. And so far, in the finance laws, we have delivered a boost to psychiatry, the first steps towards minimum standards, so there are enough staff to take care of our children, a plan for 1,000 more employees in the care of the elderly and much more. But we are not finished at all, we need to expand welfare, so the community promises more of us. What we on the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party are now going to the financial negotiations with is a visionary expansion of our welfare societies. We want to do dental care for free in Denmark. Until the age of 18, the community covers your dental care, but when you are 18 years old, the dance card must suddenly out of your pocket if you have teeth problems. It is far too expensive, and many simply choose to stop going to the dentist. This means that later in life more people must suffer serious consequences in their teeth because they were not examined and treated in time. It is not acceptable; it is something we need to do something about. That is why we want to take the first major steps in the financial law negotiations. In concrete terms, we propose to start with young people from 18 to 25 years of age being part of municipal dental care in the future. And in the long run, the dentist has to be free for everyone. In this way, we are showing a direction in which we jointly become better at caring for each other, where inequality is replaced by welfare, where the market is replaced by welfare. We must also extend welfare targeted on other points. We must not allow hard cuts that have pierced our welfare societies to continue. Everyone needs to be caught. The holes in welfare need to be patched up again. Right now many find that the welfare society is not there for them when they need it: giving birth, which is printed a few hours after their birth, giving birth, who do not get the help they need, or moving between and hospitals while their birth is in progress, and citizens with disabilities who are abandoned and thrown around in a system that is in many cases counterproductive instead of helping them. That simply cannot be done. We cannot be familiar with that. On the part of the Enhedslisten, we also propose that the Finance Act should give birth to clear welfare rights, for example. the right to a permanent midwife and the right to two days' stay on maternity leave, among other things, and at the same time we will invest in the area of disability under the Finance Act. It must ensure safe procedures and better legal certainty for those in Denmark who have a disability today and who, unfortunately, have to live with an intolerable situation where the legislation in this area is not being respected and where, unfortunately, people's rights are being trampled underfoot every day. Denmark should not be a society that is only safe for those who are able to pay for the help • welfare must be for everyone. We also need more green conversion in the Finance Act. Difficult agricultural negotiations await, in which the government pretends to have all the time in the world to solve the problems so far. We don't. A short time ago, the UN climate panel came with their big climate report, and unfortunately it paints a very gloomy picture that we are heading towards climate chaos. We've already spent 80%. of the world's CO 2 2 Climate change is already here, and the extreme weather that we have seen all over the world this summer will occur more and more violently over the coming years. If we do not increase the climate effort, the global temperature will rise by 3.3 to 5.7 degrees in this century, and the consequences will be devastating: Floods, droughts, forest fires and famines will hit us all and lead to suffering, insecurity and insecure life around the globe. The water level will rise by 1-2 m in this century. This will have significant consequences, including for Denmark. But the most important thing is in, and what the UN Panel on Climate Change actually states is that we still have a chance to prevent the worst climate change. However, this requires us to act and to act quickly. In the 2020 Finance Act, we invested in green measures. It came as part of the negotiations. That was among other things. the removal of low-level soils, and we invested 1⁄2 billion. kr. in bike paths. We also invested in the environment in the clean-up of generational pollution, and we need much more of the green. We're gonna need more of that stuff. We should also look at how we increase climate aid so that the world's poor also have the optimal opportunities to contribute to the fight against climate change. We need to look at how we can generate increased revenue in the fight against climate change, among other things. By looking at whether or not air fares • we believe that Enhedslisten should be a way to finance both a stronger welfare and the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909134553	Thank you. We move on to the debate, and first it's Mr. Knox. Troels Lund Poulsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909134558	Thank you for your speech, and also thank you for the counter-actual storywriting on how it would have been if the Blue Government had continued. It's gotta be something that's captivating Mr. Knox. Rune Lund very much, and it was quite exciting to hear that future scenario. I can then say that, sir. Rune Lund arrived at, isn't right. Anyway, what I was going to ask was the graduating rate. Sir. Rune Lund has asked other parties in the debate about the graduation rate before, and so I would like to ask whether it is an ultimate requirement for the Enhedslisten that the graduation rate should not be reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909134630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909134631	Generally speaking, we do not agree to negotiations with ultimate requirements. But let me put it that way, and I think Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen heard my question to Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen when she stood on the platform, that I do not have the imagination to imagine a situation in which Enhedslisten will support what the government has put forward, neither the version that has been put forward nor anything that should in any way remind you of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909134658	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909134659	No, I probably didn't have the imagination to imagine that either, but then my question goes on: in the event that the government makes an agreement where Enhedslisten is not in, will Enhedslisten say that it is quite all right for you to do so, or will you draw some political consequences from putting down the graduation rate?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909134717	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909134718	In a situation where the negotiations have not even begun, this question presupposes that the Enhedslisten is giving up the fight to get the deterioration removed from the table, and I would say that that is not where we are. We are in a situation where we can hear here today that Enhedslisten is opposed to reducing the daily allowance for newly educated and newly trained people, that SF has the same starting point, and I also hear the Radical Left having the same starting point. So, as far as I am concerned, the negotiations have only just started on that point. We go to the negotiations to negotiate the good things better and get the bad things out.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909134751	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909134753	Thank you. Actually, everything, sir. Rune Lund mentioned in her speech the wishes of Enhedslisten, are proposals that will make Denmark poorer, so that there are fewer people working and that our gross domestic product will be reduced, will result in higher taxes, higher transfer income • all things that make Denmark poorer. Does Enhedslisten have any suggestions that will make Denmark richer? And here I am thinking of other Enhedslisten himself, recognizing that this will be the consequence. So, does Enhedslisten have any proposals that economists will recognise will give a higher gross domestic product in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909134836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909134837	We have plenty of proposals that will both create jobs and, for example, create jobs. will also enable the green transition. If we take the paper of understanding, which is, of course, the basis for the Socialist Government to have a majority behind it, then it was very important for us to bring in those elements which concern what is so often referred to as the second-generation reforms in the labour market. And the things that include... is about it, is reducing wear and stress, ensuring that more people in the public sector can be helpers or nurses who want to go from part-time to full-time, can actually come to it, that in relation to the approximately 50,000 young people who are not in education or work today, we look at how this is actually going to happen, and also look at how we create a more inclusive labour market, so that, even if you are up in the years and may have reached retirement age, you still have the opportunity to contribute in the labour market if you have the body to it and if you have the motivation to do so. So these are some of the things we want to do and will create employment in the real world. Well, then, sir. Rasmus Jarlov is right that if you look at how to calculate over at the Treasury calculator, you can't count on them over there compared to all these good moves that actually matter in the real world. Yes, please! ) So if it's the calculator over there we're supposed to be counting on, it's clear that it's no good, but if we look...
ParlaMint-DK_20210909134951	Yes, sir. Rune Lund! Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909134952	Okay, so if you use the Treasury calculator, Enhedslisten doesn't really have any suggestions that will make Denmark richer. I think that was quite an admission anyway. And you can see that as a conspiracy on the part of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. that they may just be against Enhedslisten, so they have designed their methods of calculation in a way that makes Denmark poorer all that Enhedslisten proposes. But could it not also give rise to some reflection by the Enhedslisten on whether or not we should try to make some proposals that others other than Enhedslisten itself recognize will make the country richer?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909135031	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909135032	It is well documented that the accounting principles of the Ministry of Finance are based on very thin evidence on a paper thin basis. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance is counting on only some initiatives in their calculator and not others. For example: After all, when we invest in public welfare and we have good standards in our kindergartens and in our day care institutions, it is obvious that it gives parents better opportunities to be in the labour market. But in the calculation models used over at the Ministry of Finance in the red building right here next to the building, it almost amounts to just burning money in the wood stove. It has zero or almost zero effect. So we have a big problem with the calculation methods that are being used.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909135114	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909135116	Thank you. We have been here for a debate on finance a number of times now, sir. Rune Lund and I, and we both remember that it always goes the same way: sir. Rune Lund tells about all the many extra billions that Enhedslisten intends to spend, and I question the wisdom of it. Or I question, as I do now, how it may be that Enhedslisten believes that Enhedslisten can spend so much money when Enhedslisten is basically against the system that creates all the money. The unitary list is against us having a market economy in this country. If you look at Enhedslisten's programme of principles, which says that you want to abolish the market economy, it says: "As an economic system, capitalism has created enormous technological development and increased consumption opportunities among ordinary people in the rich world. Yes, and that is what Enhedslisten benefits from when you stand and want to distribute billions: that you have an economic system that creates all the wealth you can share. But when Enhedslisten has completed the collectivisation of the Danish system, as Enhedslisten will, Enhedslisten has no money to spend and so what?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909135227	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909135228	This is a very exciting theoretical debate, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is setting up. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen suffers, however. of conceptual confusion in this discussion. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen sets among others. the similarity between capitalism and market economy. Actually, it's two different things. The capitalism we now have is a system that puts profits at the top and where other considerations are subordinate. For example: the fact that we do not over-use the resources of the planet and the fact that we do not have a lot of toxins that it is possible to use in production today, but which destroy our groundwater and our drinking water. Market economy is a organizing principle, which is about how companies as a unit can act in relation to each other. It is really a question of whether production should take place in a decentralised way, if one must, rather than a more planned economic approach, with some politically elected people who, on behalf of the Community, decide on common priorities. And if I may say something, we know about planning economics at home too: primary school and the leisure club associated with primary school. After all, these are political decisions where funds are allocated to a particular area where citizens can then receive a benefit, even without payment.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909135341	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909135343	But it is not just me who says that the system that some call capitalism, the system that we have in Denmark, creates a lot of wealth. It's in Enhedslisten's program of principle. At the same time, it says that the Enhedslisten will abolish that system and introduce something else that is not capitalism. And yet it is as if Enhedslisten is completely removed from the idea that then you also have less money to spend in a finance law, i.e. if you have collectiveised the Danish economy. It is as if the Enhedslisten, on the one hand, wants to kill the cow that gives the milk and, on the other hand, wants to use much more milk than everyone else. And that doesn't add up. Maybe it's because Enhedslisten is just a populist party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909135423	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909135424	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen is wrong about two things. First of all, sir. Ole Birk Olesen clearly has not understood what kind of socialist that is, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is talking to. That's one thing. The other thing is, sir. Ole Birk Olesen excels in conceptual confusion. There is a difference between how to basically define an economic system as capitalism and how to think about how a market economy works within that system or another economic system. For it is clear that we cannot have it all decided in some planning department with five-year plans, i.e. how everything is to be produced. After all, this must be decided in the individual companies within the framework of the legislation that applies. And then we are in a market economy. You can call it what you want. But capitalism and the market economy cannot be confused in this way, Mr President. Ole Birk Olesen does.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909135459	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund then it was also time to finish it. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909135511	It was a nice debate. Rune Lund It's a little different). Yeah, but that's it. After all, many of the reforms have been made which have just generated the economy that could then be used here in the Corona crisis. But let it go. There are many things that separate us, and I would like to try here today to see if we can find some things that gather us together. The Job Centres I think are very, very dysfunctional in the way they are now. Now I asked Radicals, and they were open to go in and change it. We have 15,000 people who are employed in this area and who I think could do something better than sitting in that system that I think is dysfunctional. Was it something that Enhedslisten would like us to go in and look at? All the parties I talk to say that they would like that, but then we have to sit down and have a look at a new system that might work better than that which is not working right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909135557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909135558	Well, that's where we agree. In other words, long before there was anything called New Citizens, Enhedslisten has hetze courage and raged against a system, an employment system in which we spend 14-15 billion. kr. in a way which is largely over-indulgence and which is bureaucraticising in relation to people who are affected by illness and unemployment. We think it is much more important to use resources to actually help people get into jobs, and we think that the money is being spent in an unworthy way and in a wrong way, so we will be interested at all times in looking at how we can do better, but also find some money that can be taken from that system and spent on something else. That is also what is part of the Arne agreement, that is to say the agreement on early retirement rights, where part of the funding is to rethink the employment effort and think it in a new way. So that's part of the funding in the Arne Agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909135654	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909135656	I think that is about 1.1 billion. kr. or something financed by it. And that is true, but then you can say that the job center was also dysfunctional before there was something called New Citizens and where you should have done something about it, and so there is so much. One might also say that Enhedslisten also fought against set-off for early retirement and old-age pensioners. Now New Citizens have come to the Folketing, and then something starts to move there. So there can be so much. But I will take it as an outstretched hand, and then I will say, and now, unfortunately, the Minister for Employment is not here, that when I hear from the parties around the Parliament, that these job centres are going to be dealt with, I take it as a positive thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909135732	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909135733	Yes, we need to do something about that, and if I am going to talk nicely about one thing in the reform proposal put forward by the government, it is the abolition of the mutual dependency of pensioners, that is to say, for people on early retirement and retirement pensions. It will be an important thing to achieve that too, and I hope New Citizens can see the sense in that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909135804	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909135806	Thank you. Now Enhedslisten's rapporteur says that Enhedslisten has more influence than ever before. That is probably the kind of thing to let others say, because then you start to think: I wonder if that is true. The Enhedslisten has, of course, abandoned the idea of overthrowing the government and forsaking pressure on the government in this way. Nor have there been any ministerial posts, because the Socialists want all of them. Now we come to the Finance Act, which is like the third place you can really do something, and then it looks as if there is significantly less money set aside for the green than last year. What does Enhedslisten think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909135835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909135835-2	As far as I remember, the alternative was also included in the finance agreements we made both in 2020 and 2021. I think that is very good, because I think that the alternative is important here in the Folketing, and I hope that the alternative will also have a good choice next time there will be parliamentary elections. I think that in this way we have a very good cooperation in here, which I am very pleased about. We have a parliamentary strategy in which we want the political direction in Denmark to be fundamentally the right one. That is also why it was essential for us to have an understanding document as the basis for us to be able to base our mandates on the fact that there is a majority behind the Socialist Government. It is clear that there is the 70-percent target, we have the milestone in 2025, which we have now also got to be between 50 and 54 per cent, and we had the hockey staff broken a short time ago. It is all the result of that I have to say that Enhedslisten has got it through in the understanding paper. I think it is a pity that the alternative was not included in the understanding paper, but I very much appreciate the day-to-day cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909135946	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909135948	Thank you very much for those nice words, but the truth is that all the green organisations outside this floor think that things are going too slowly, believe that we are almost degenerating the climate effort at the moment. And now there is a Finance Act where it looks as if less money should be spent on climate, even though the UN climate panel says that climate problems are escalating. It is with more hope in the voice that I ask Enhedslisten than when I asked Radicals and I asked SF: Will you join in saying no to a budget law that is not greener than that which, yes, the alternative also helped to say yes to the last year?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140025	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140026	The draft budget put forward by the government last year was also virtually devoid of green action, and that is where we had it changed in the negotiations. And I am going to do exactly the same thing this time, and very much along with the alternative, with which we have excellent cooperation, because we share views very, very much when it comes to the need to fight for the green transition and against climate change.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140051	Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140054	Thank you. After all, we have a government that sometimes says one and does a little something else, among other things. in relation to digitalisation and this with Denmark in balance, where we hear great words, but perhaps not really, at least in the last two years, have seen so much action in the digital field. The government is proposing in this Finance Act, among other things. To close down the broadband pool, which is, after all, a pool that helps to secure the Internet in rural areas where market forces do not work • a pool that works quite well. Another thing that is also proposed to cut again this year is the Data Protection Agency at a time when the Data Protection Agency is getting massively more inquiries. It is essential for us to have digitalisation where citizens' concerns can be addressed and taken seriously and our companies can get advice. So in the light of the two proposals in the government's financial bill, I just want to hear how Enhedslisten looks at them.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140149	In relation to the broadband pool, we have already been out reporting that we think it should be continued. It is, after all, a cliff, that is, an appropriation that simply ends. That's 100 million. kr. a year. We think it should continue, and we will also bring it to the table. As far as the Data Protection Agency is concerned, I have simply not been able to read through all parts of the draft budget. In the past, we have had a desire to strengthen the Data Protection Agency in the financial negotiations. I will read through the draft budget on that point too. I haven't reached all the paragraphs yet. However, we are always examining the draft budget for deterioration, if I may say so, on the part of the Enhedslisten in preparation for the negotiations. But the Data Protection Agency is something we care about. I cannot give a clearer answer than that, but thank you for pointing it out at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140233	Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140235	Thank you for your answer. I can tell you that Mrs Eva Flyvholm has been out to say that she also thinks it is completely crazy, as I think it is. Unfortunately, last year there were also savings in the Data Protection Agency, several left-wing parties who said the same thing, without apparently working on ministers, or without remembering to take it into the negotiating room. So the call is here this year: please remember it and stand firm on it. Because it is totally untenable in the situation we are in, with an increasingly digital society, to keep cutting down on the Data Protection Agency.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140304	Yes, and perhaps we can even find funding for it by scraping the housing job scheme, which costs 540 million. kr. in the year, which is socially biased and which makes absolutely zero economic sense in a situation where construction is already overheated. So if you could perhaps agree with the Left to scrap the housing job scheme, there would be plenty of funding to finance strengthening the Data Protection Agency.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140327	Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140330	Thank you. Has the rapporteur considered becoming a science fiction writer? Because it kind of sounds like that in this counter-actual explanation of what it would look like with a VLAK government. I usually say that I will keep myself too good to impose their intentions on others. I really believe that we all want to do this in the Chamber, but I understand why others are getting a different opinion in the way that Enhedslisten's rapporteur is doing this. Should I myself now fall to the same level as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, I could say that this corona crisis has shown that if the Enhedslisten had several mandates, then we would never get our rights back, because it was with a fingertips that the freedom of assembly was just removed, that all those negative freedoms were removed. And we know very well that Enhedslisten would like the state to own all companies. You don't want to see private investment, and that's why you think it's nice with share taxes. So it clearly shows that we should just be happy that we were allowed to live, and then Enhedslisten should probably tell us what we wanted with life if it was Enhedslisten who decided. But I'm actually gonna ask about the Service Commission. The Government has received the recommendations of the Service Commission and they have responded with a proposal for a lower graduation rate. Is this what Enhedslisten expects from the negotiations that will come out of the Commission's paper?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140438	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140440	I think Mrs Louise Schack Elholm who has to take the price of today's very poor speech. I think we were just down there scratching the bottom there. Who is it that, during the negotiations on the closure of the corona, secured many of the fundamental rights that we have in our society, for example. That you shouldn't be able to enter an apartment without a warrant? Who secured it? I'm just asking. Who is it that in recent years has caused one deterioration of legal certainty and fundamental freedoms after another, for example? in terrorist law or in relation to non-compliance with EU judgments on illegal mass surveillance via telephone masts in Denmark? Is it the Enhedslisten, or is it the Left? It's the Left. The Left, the so-called liberal party in Denmark, has not been the defender of freedoms, as might otherwise be expected. Who has consistently voted against the violation of freedoms in this Parliament for many years? It's the Enhedslisten. It's not Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140538	Louise Schack Elholm, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140539	The rapporteur was never able to answer my question about the Service Commission. However, I can say that it was not the Left who thought it was a great idea to remove the freedom of assembly. The Enhedslisten continues to demand in these Corona talks that freedom of assembly be removed because meeting is dangerous. It may be dangerous to meet, but freedom of assembly should be a little more thoughtful than simply removing it with a stroke of pen or not being allowed to exercise one's faith. After all, it is a question of whether we will ever get our rights back in the way Enhedslisten acts. But I would like an answer to the question of the Service Commission. Because they made their report this spring and so far, as far as I know, there has not been a call for negotiations on the report or report of the Service Commission. Then I would hear what it is that Enhedslisten expects the government to deliver on it. Because what the government has so far come up with is a lower graduation rate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140624	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140625	The Commission must reduce inequality and it must reduce child poverty. The government has committed itself to this, and it must do so, because we have an agreement on that. This, as Mrs Louise Schack Elholm says, really highlights the picture that we have all had in the Corona negotiations about the idea of trying to draw a picture of this irresponsible debt and that Denmark was running out of the abyss with the debt that was absorbed, although it was economically sensible, because we have to invest out of the crisis. All economists agree on what everyone can see it was wise. I remember clearly how we had the debate in here a year ago. In relation to freedoms: the laissez-faire approach adopted by the Left would undoubtedly have led to a more serious development of the pandemic in Denmark than the policy actually pursued, and that is why we would have been in a more serious situation if it had been the Left that had been in power.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140716	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140718	Thank you. I have noted before that Enhedslisten is also interested in what is going on on at Langeland, and then one can be very surprised at the uncertainty created around the exit centre about that matter now being completely gone. Hopefully we will have a clear answer to that in the near future. But what I want to ask Enhedslisten's rapporteur is whether it is not also surprising that the pool, that broadband pool, seems to have been kicked out of the finance laws again. This is, of course, a matter which we have taken a great deal of interest in not only on Langeland, but on the whole of South Funen and in rural areas. I mean, I'm just thinking about the debate that's been going on around rural areas, and then it's a strange signal to me that you then kick the broadband pool over the fence again before the negotiations start. What is Enhedslisten's reaction to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140807	In other words, what is in the Finance Act is that a temporary grant for the broadband pool will end at the end of 2021. Then we in the Group of the European People's Party want it to be continued, and we intend to go along with this in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140825	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140826	Well, I think it's excellent that Enhedslisten will bring it to the table, but that's what they did last year and got it so secured. But isn't it a strange tactic the government is using in this area? Because we do not really know whether the government and, as it were, the whole red block will actually be rural areas, or whether it is just fine words at the end of the week, when you write in various press releases, that now really needs to be focused on rural areas and create jobs, and then it will be such a stop and go in relation to the broadband pool. I am also thinking here of home workplaces. It is also spreading more and more. Can we not have a clear answer to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140902	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140904	I think the government must answer why they do not include the broadband pool in their draft Finance Act. I think it would have been wise for it to have been included from the beginning.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140913	No one else has asked for brief comments. We went a long way, too. Thank you very much, sir. Rune Lund. We are now moving on in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909140935	Thank you for a good debate so far, and thank you to the government for presenting its draft budget. When I read it, I was falling off the chair because I fell asleep. There is so little content in this year's financial law, so one is completely surprised. There's a little bit about restoring some IT systems and giving a little money to the Crime Service and the EEAS, and that's fine. However, it is surprising that, after all, we do not tackle to any greater extent some of the many challenges that Denmark has. And I am also very surprised that, when you have a budget of 1 200 billion. kr., so that not around is able to find some places where you think: Here we might save a little; maybe during the year we have become wiser, and there might be some places where you could spend a little less money. Then you could spend more money elsewhere, but you should always try to make the most of taxpayers' hard-earned money, and there is not so much of this year's financial bill. If we were to create the Finance Act, we would have set growth and the green transition in motion. We had seen the taxes down, we had cleaned up unnecessary public spending such as very expensive job centres and over-administration of the public sector. We also want to strengthen nature, culture and the conditions of the elderly. All the elements that we included in the draft budget that we presented last year and which we will also have included in the draft budget that we are presenting here later in the autumn. I would, of course, like to commend the fact that there are very few new expenditures in the draft budget. The status quo is better than going in the wrong direction, so it should not just be criticism. And I would also like to pay tribute to the fact that there are no tax increases, because after two years of huge public spending and huge tax increases, it is also time to hold back. In addition, however, I do not really have much to say about the draft budget, which is why I would like to say a few words about the economic issue that the government came up with a few days after its draft budget. Because here it is a little more busy, and we are going to spend a lot of time discussing that. So let's start with that. The Conservative People's Party is pleased that the government now finally wants to make reforms that can increase the supply of work a little bit. That means getting more Danes to be available to take a job. However, we are disappointed that the level of ambition is not higher than the government merely wants to cover the gap in the labour supply to which it itself has dug with its Arnepension. It is not very difficult to increase the supply of work and get more Danes to be available to take a job. We know exactly what we can do. We have some very concrete proposals that have been calculated and implemented: we can lighten the tax on work, for example abolish the top tax or just raise the limit on when to pay top tax, so that at least ordinary people in ordinary jobs can avoid paying this extreme tax of 15%. extra of their salary. Companies can be allowed to pick up more foreigners from Denmark on temporary residence permits so that companies can bring Ukrainians and South Americans to Denmark and take the jobs that companies are fighting for right now. It can also be done very quickly, and it can have a very rapid effect. Furthermore, if you want to make Denmark even richer, we also have several good proposals: you can lower corporate tax, you can lower the tax on shares, you can create more competition and free choice in society. Instead of allowing the public to have so many monopolies, private individuals can be allowed to do more. Then we should maintain the ceiling on cash aid instead of putting holes in what the government is proposing, and then we should not allow public expenditure to increase so much. Instead, the government goes backwards on many points. One of the worst suggestions in what the government has put forward is that you will give 5,000 kroner. more a month in cash benefits for people who are unemployed for 3 months. This is a proposal that lacks both economic sense and fairness. In economic terms, it is unreasonable to raise the daily allowance from these approx. 19,000 DKK. ed 24,000 kroner, because it will make people more likely to take a few months off when they become unemployed, instead of rushing to get a new job. Nor is it socially fair, because why should people on unemployment benefits have more money than people working in low-wage jobs? If you give 5,000 kroner. extra in cash benefits, we get more on cash benefits than you get in a low-paid job in Denmark, and so there is no reasonable point in that. It must be a strange feeling for those who work in low-wage jobs to stand and serve people who are on unemployment benefits and know that they have more money than themselves. And why are it especially those who are unemployed for very short periods of time who must receive higher benefits when it must be those who are least affected by unemployment? I mean, it's harder to be unemployed for a long time than it is to be unemployed for a short time. So why do those who are unemployed for a short time need more money? I therefore believe that, if you are unemployed for a few months, people will be able to cope with the current rate of benefit. And it is an expression of trying to create a state where you have not just a safety net under people, but where you simply want to protect them from any kind of fluctuations in their income. And if you were to be even more rude, you could also see it here, as if it were merely an attempt to get votes and to please friends in the trade union movement who would like to have more people into the benefit system and who, in particular, want to kill private wage insurance schemes. I am afraid that is probably the agenda that is at stake here, and we think that is very wrong. Then I have to say that I think it is almost shameless when the government proposes to withdraw the deduction to be part of a union. This corresponds to the fact that we went out and suggested that state aid should now be given to employers' organisations. So we wouldn't do that. Honestly, this is purely nepotism. When the government wants to raise the tax on shares, we are out in something that is directly harmful to the Danish economy. Denmark is already a country in which it is bad to start public limited companies. From 2014 to 2019 only 25 so-called micro-enterprises went on the stock exchange in Denmark, while in the same period there were 409 micro-enterprises who went on the stock exchange in Sweden. So we are already missing a lot of value and a lot of public limited companies that could make us richer in Denmark because of the very, very high share tax that we already have. And then the government is setting up to make it even higher. So it doesn't seem right. It is certainly a proposal in which it is planned to make Denmark poorer with its eyes open. After all, we are at the disposal of the Conservative People's Party to help the government pursue a responsible economic policy. We do not want to leave the government to parties that want to conduct an irresponsible policy, and that is the situation the government will be in if we were not ready to help; then you have to make policy with the Enhedslisten, and we do not want for anyone even for our opponents in the government to be put in such an unpleasant situation. And that is why, of course, we are ready to help with our mandates where we can, but it also requires the government to be a little realistic about what it expects the Conservative People's Party and other bourgeois parties to contribute to voting. I am very pleased that we have clarified in this Chamber today that there is a firm majority against raising the share tax so that it does not materialise. And I would also ask the government to think more about helping the Danish economy than about helping the trade union movement when presenting economic proposals that people want to bring bourgeois parties into. In any case, it is the case with us that we find it very, very difficult to take seriously. We are very much looking forward to the negotiations. We think it's a long way to go, but we hope we can find each other. We want to increase the supply of work. The government says it wants to, so it should be possible for us to find each other. But I think it will take some time with the starting point that has been put on the table. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909141831	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909141835	Thanks for the speech. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov talks a lot about being responsible financially and whether you could not find anywhere in the draft budget where you could have saved some money and things like that. I can see in a way that there must be a need from a conservative point of view, because in this Chamber we have seen in the past year a resolution which would cost 24 billion per manently. kr. How is it that, on the one hand, you are a potential Prime Minister's Party and, on the other hand, you spend an incredible amount of money, at least if the resolutions you support down here were implemented, and at the same time you pride yourself on being a financially responsible party? How does everything relate to what you say on the one hand and how you vote in the Chamber on the other?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909141924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909141925	I can't confirm a figure of 24 billion. kr. It's kind of hard for me to relate to. I'll take it from here, sir. Rasmus Stoklund just nod if it is that here we include tax reliefs, which we have voted for. Isn't that right? Is that part of the 24 billion? kr., or where does that number come from? President: It is true, however, that we have voted, for example, in favour of more tax cuts than there is a budget for immediately. It is because when we vote in favour of one tax relief, which then does not materialise, then we will vote in favour of another afterwards. After all, we have done nothing more than there is money for it, and I think it would be strange if there were a majority in the Assembly to reduce corporation tax, for example, and we did not get a top tax relief through, that we should say no to lowering corporation tax instead. That would be very unconstructive. So, yes, as a whole, we have therefore probably voted in favour of more than is immediately available. But it is because it has not been implemented and therefore the money is still there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142036	Rasmus Stoklund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142037	It was actually a commentator in the Stock Exchange who drew attention to it in an article a few days ago. I can forward the article to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov afterwards. It is a statement from the Treasury, as far as I understand, which forms the basis for the figures about conservative votes down here. In addition, just one comment about the fact that changing the deductions for the union quota should be an expression of nepotism: in that case, it should be an expression of a kind of nepotism towards the very large majority of employees in Denmark who, through their union membership, contribute to supporting vocational schools, the working environment, labour law and all sorts of other public goods in practice. Is that really what is meant by nepotism in the Conservative People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142121	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142122	No, it's not. I am thinking here of the dependency of the Social Democrats on their sponsors in the trade union movement, which is favoured by this proposal to grant the right of deduction for trade union quotas. I think there is a fairly direct and very clear connection here, where you give something to your sponsors that you depend on and that is why you sit in power. I think you should hold back from that. I do not think it is very pretty to conduct politics in such a way as to try to favour one's own friends as clearly as one has done with a proposal like this. So, frankly, I don't think it's very comfortable.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142200	Sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142202	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. It is mostly to the end of this labour market reform, or what we should call it, as the government has come. What I really just want to ask the rapporteur of the Conservatives is whether it is about fighting a lot against it with the $5,000. for 3 months. Now we have to see how it can land. But surely we have a challenge if there is not a great deal of support for the A-boxes? Today we have the Danish model. It is easy to be employed, and it is actually also easy to be dismissed. If it is watered down too much, one might be in a situation where the trade union movement is taking some other fights, where it will be harder to be dismissed, so that we do not have such a dynamic labour market as we have in Denmark. Now there's a proposal from the government. Maybe it shouldn't be. But surely we need to make sure that the benefit system is of value to employees too, so that we can have this dynamic labour market where we can quickly get labour in, but also quickly get labour out; does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142259	Basically, I do not disagree with that. But I just do not think that the problem lies with people who are unemployed for a very short time. You can manage on the current rate of benefit even if you become unemployed for a few months. Then you have a small drop in income, then you get a job again, and then you make money again, and then it's not a disaster for your private economy. I think that the limit is that the rate of unemployment benefit should not be higher than that of a low-paid job. Surely we cannot justify to a cashier that you can get more by being on cash benefits than by sitting 8 hours at the cashier. There is no reasonable reason for that. So I think that there are some balances in what is being displaced by suddenly giving 5,000 kroner. extra per month for people who are unemployed for quite a short time. I think it lacks reasonableness, and it also lacks economic sense, because it is, after all, dragging people out of the workforce. The government's own figures say that it will mean that there will be thousands fewer people available to take a job, because people will be more likely to just take a slightly longer period between jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142407	Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142408	I have understood that, and I fully acknowledge that you can take that position. Nor have we agreed to the model that is now in place. But do Conservatives not recognise that if we are to have the Danish model, the cash-box system must also have value? We have a very dynamic labour market and you can just take a trip to France, for example, where it is really, really difficult for companies to provide labour that they may have to dispose of after a short time. We do not want that in Denmark. The trade union movement wants members, and if it is not attractive, if the boxes are not attractive, they might want to make some other products more attractive. It could be, for example, that it is harder to be dismissed. Conservatives do not agree that we should safeguard the Danish model, where also the cash-box system has value?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142448	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142449	I understand the argument, but there are also limits to how far one can drive that argument. I think it is driving too far to give extra money to people who are unemployed for a short time. But I recognize the rationale behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142505	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142508	Thank you. I could understand from the rapporteur that he thought it was too bad that there was a deduction for trade union quotas. I just want to know if the Conservative People's Party does not think that it is good for Denmark that we have flexicurity, that we have the Danish model, and that it is also good for the business community that you have the social safety net, because it precisely provides more flexibility? That was my first question.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142545	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142546	Yes, we are 100% in favour of a strong social safety net. What we are not in favour of is wrapping the citizens completely into cotton wool, protecting them from even small fluctuations in their income. That is why I think that this particular approach to people who are unemployed for a very short time lacks a justification. It is economically unreasonable, it pulls people out of the workforce and encourages you to wait longer before you take your next job, if you become unemployed, and it also lacks a moral justification, because it is not those who are hardest hit by it; among the unemployed, it is not those who are unemployed for a short period of time who are hardest hit by it. So I don't think it has anything to do with social security networks. Social safety net is to ensure that no one falls through, but it is not to protect people from all fluctuations in their income.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142628	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142629	But is it then to wrap up business when we spend three-digit billions of dollars holding hands under business under corona, which is a global crisis, that is not something we have decided to do in Denmark when we grant corona loans, which we have decided this morning to extend? SF was involved, I was actually a banner leader for us to go further than what the government was up to. Is that wrapping up business? Is it to wrap up business, that we spend 42 billion. kr. on direct business support every year?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142703	I am not in favour of business support, but the other things that Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen mentions are not to wrap up business. Well, we're talking about companies that were going bankrupt. After all, we are not talking about them having had a tiny fluctuations in their income for a few months and having received huge support. We are talking about companies where there are people out there who have to put their entire personal wealth at risk, their whole lives are at risk because their income base is being completely ripped away from them because society is asking them to shut down in order to solve a common social task. The Community must, of course, help to pay for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142741	Birgitte Vind, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142744	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I understand that the rapporteur would very much like to spend time talking about the reform initiative of the Social Democratic Party, and I can also thank you for that, but I am now also interested in hearing a little more about the wishes of the Conservatives for a future financial law. Rasmus Jarlov Thank you). Yeah, I guess that's what we're here for. On 18 June, the Chairman of the Conservatives, Søren Pape Poulsen, put such fine graphics on his social media, where it says that if you vote for the Social Democracy, you get tax spanking, but voting for the Conservatives, you get tax cuts. So I would like to hear from the Conservative rapporteur whether the rapporteur is aware of how many tax increases the Conservative People's Party has actually helped to implement.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142825	I agree that we have voted in favour of some of the tax increases made by the Socialists. What the Socialists always forget when they present the overview that shows what we have voted for is to highlight what tax cuts we then received in return, because there have actually been some tax cuts, even under the Socialist Government. There was a so-called green tax reform, where we made quite significant tax cuts, and then we agreed to some other tax increases in return. After all, we are not opposed to making tax adjustments that make taxes more sensible, and we can do so, among other things. in the green area, where you can raise some taxes, and then you can lower some others. So we can get along with this kind of reform. There are also a few other examples. For example, we voted in favour of higher taxes on plastic bags and voted in favour of higher cigarette taxes because we think that is sensible. But the difference between us and the Socialists is that we want a lower tax burden, not a higher tax burden. That is why we can vote in favour of some increases in the tax, but then there are other places where it has to be reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142922	Mrs. Birgitte Wind.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909142923	Thank you. After all, the funding of the Conservatives' proposals is still a little in the air after the question put by my colleague here before, but I can at least start by saying that yes, it is true: the Conservative People's Party has actually been involved in tax increases. In fact, 16 tax increases have been carried out, and it is not surprising about the graphics I told you about before. But then I understand that the Conservative People's Party still wants to give tax relief, and then I just want to hear what kind of tax relief it is. Will the Conservative People's Party roll back some of the reforms we have achieved, for example. tax increases to finance green traffic?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909143005	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909143007	Thank you for that dream question and for allowing me to tell you what tax concessions we are in favour of. We want to lower corporate tax, down to 19%. We have proposed raising the limit to pay top tax or abolishing the top tax completely, we would like to remove the tax on work phones, we want to raise the employment allowance, we want to reduce taxes, and we want to keep housing taxes in order just to mention a few things. So there is plenty to take off, and that is a completely different way we will go with our tax policy than the Socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909143041	Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909143044	Thank you. That's a nice rhyme. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov says he can't answer it with this statement of 24 billion. kr. We asked Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, and he couldn't answer that either. I really don't understand. Is it the case that the Conservative People's Party does not make an inventory of what you vote for so you simply do not know how much money you propose to spend?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909143112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909143113	I answered that earlier, but I'd be happy to answer it again. It is true that we have voted in favour of many tax cuts in this Chamber. We have done so because, when we have voted in favour of a tax relief that has not happened, the money is still gone and we would like to vote in favour of another tax relief instead. It would be strange if, when we have proposed lowering corporation tax and it is not voted through in the Parliament, we were to vote against lowering the share tax instead. In other words, we take the tax cuts that we can get and when things are not implemented, it cannot be presented as if we have voted for more than there is money for.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909143152	Here you go, sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909143153	But if that's true, you must have done that inventory, otherwise you can't answer it that way. Then I don't understand why you can't answer how much money you voted to spend. That's one. The second is that it is surely also a healthy principle that you intend to implement what you say before the elections, and if you do not make such statements, but just vote for proposals without being able to determine it, what are you going to do after the elections? I think it flies around, but it may be that there is a clear answer: are you doing that inventory or are you not doing it? And if you make it, why can't the rapporteur answer it with the 24 billion? kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909143227	Thank you. You can't use direct charges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909143228	I can do that. I don't have it at my fingertips. It is such an attempt on the part of the Social Democrats to catch us in something. They think they can, and then they bring it. You could just send it to us, and then we'd be happy to answer it. We can do that inventory easily. After all, we put forward a financial bill last year in which we presented very detailed crowns for crowns what tax cuts we want to implement and how we finance them. So the money is one hundred percent, and they will be doing so in the draft budget that we will be presenting for 2022 in a very short time. But we will not fail to vote in favour of tax cuts. We are in favour of the tax being lower. After all, we need to be a little pragmatic, and if we do not have a majority of our own, we will, of course, be voting in favour of the tax cuts that we can get. If we then get them implemented, we are, of course, bound by the fact that the money is gone, but as long as the tax cuts have not been implemented, it would be ridiculous not to vote in favour of tax cuts in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909143320	Thank you. Then there are no more questions about Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909143334	Thank you. Denmark can do more. Yes, the Danes can do more, and I actually think they can do more than what the government and the left allow them to do. In New Citizens we believe in Denmark, and we believe in the Danes, and we trust that they are far better at managing their lives, their economy than the politicians in this Parliament. That is why politicians must decide less, including over Danes' money. We must have a fight with the world's highest tax burden, which harms growth and thereby prosperity, which will result in less basic core welfare in the long term. That is why, in New Citizens, we have presented a long-term economic plan which the government should copy, because it will make Denmark and the Danes richer and freer; a plan that gives business better opportunities to create growth and prosperity; a plan that gives citizens more freedom; and a plan that frees public employees to spend time on basic core welfare. The overall economy in Denmark is being improved by as much as 80 billion. kr. It is absolutely crucial and essential for us to be able to finance basic core welfare in the future as well. We must not stop making fundamental reforms, because it will harm future generations. The economy of the individual family is being greatly improved. An average LO family, e.g. A policeman and a nurse will experience having approx. 5,900 kr. more in your pocket, not every year, but every month. It gives freedom and it gives responsibility back to the citizens. We create 235,000 more jobs in the private sector, a business sector that urgently needs more labour now, but also gets it in the future. We're gonna address that. These necessary reforms must ensure the continued prosperity of Denmark, and this is financed by politicians stopping slightly with their gluttony. Now some would argue that politicians in a country with the highest tax burden in the world cannot do so, but we simply do not recognise that in New Citizens. What we basically say is that if politicians have 100 kroner this year, then next year they have 99 kroner. And 40 cents. Don't you think it's all gonna be okay? I must also say that if you cannot find 0.6%. In fact, in its budget, we should not, frankly, be left with responsibility. So it is all about the political will, and unfortunately there is not at present. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the majority of the Danish Parliament, but we in the New Citizens' Party do, and that is why, of course, we are going to present on a regular basis the amendments to this and to future financial laws which will have to find the means to fund it here. That is the responsible way of doing it. In this way, we give power back to the citizens so that they can make decisions that are right for them and their families. It may be that some will spend it on more private consumption. Some may want to pay some debt out of the world, and some may no longer want it to be up to politicians to dictate and decide when to leave the labour market, and therefore they choose to invest this money for later use so that they can decide for themselves when they want to leave the labour market. Yes, the whole point of economic policy and New Citizens' long-term plan is precisely that it should no longer be politicians who have to run the Danes' lives in detail. They have to, because we believe they can, because the Danes can do more. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909143742	Thank you. There are a few comments. Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909143746	Thank you for that, and thank you to the New Citizen's rapporteur for this speech. New citizens have also launched an economic plan, and it is actually proposed to fire 7,000 people in the public sector. Is it the schoolteacher or the policeman, or who is it? It's also up to 2035, so it's going to be about 100,000 employees. At the same time, improvements in efficiency and savings on DR and DSB have been pointed out as the only thing. Now I think I heard the rapporteur say that corrections or changes will be made on a regular basis, but where does the rapporteur really think the savings should be made, and who is it? Is this the former colleague of the rapporteur at primary school, or is that the policeman's colleague at the station?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909143855	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909143856	I will see if I can make it, because there were some factual errors in what the rapporteur said. No, we don't want to fire anyone. What we have said is that it is calculated that, technically speaking, there will be fewer public employees, and that is not the same as firing, because it also has to be done by natural farewell. So it's simply not true that you want to fire someone. When we say that we are pointing to where the money is to be found, we are doing it specifically year by year, and if you have listened carefully to my rapporteur's speech, you would have heard that I have just said that we are going to table amendments to this financial law which is financing these things. Then I'll just have to arrest the fact that every time you have to find money in the public sector it has to be, for example. primary school teachers. Are there nearly 50,000 primary school teachers? Why do they have to be found out exactly out of the 850,000 civil servants? Is that where the Social Democratic Party will find them? I can find a lot of other places than right there.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909143947	Here you go, Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909143949	Thank you. I am simply curious to know two things. One is what Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizen points to must be deleted. He keeps saying he can point at it, so who is it? The second is: what is core welfare really for New Citizens when it is not the school teacher? I am simply puzzled by the fact that people continue to falsify about it, but they do not quite point to it in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144026	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144027	In fact, I was as specific as you can possibly be. We're actually gonna set aside 43 billion. kr. to increase basic core welfare in our plan, so of course we set aside money for it. Now this is a first reading of the Finance Act, and the government has presented their financial bill, and then there are amendments to this Finance Act, and then I say that we are going to put forward amendments to this Finance Act, which exactly finance what we think can be found in the public year by year. But, of course, we will not be presenting funding proposals for 15 years here this year, because that would be completely irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144104	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144109	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. A little along the lines of that, it is of course interesting to know what will happen, because it is towards 2035 and before we get a look at it, it is not that long. That's 140 billion. DKK to be saved over these years, so how much does it really have to be saved by 2022? So, you start out hard, or do you start a little soft on the savings that have to be made towards 2022 when we come to see the amendments?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144138	No, we have said that on average it will amount to 6 billion. Mr President, I should like to make a few brief comments on this subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144145	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144147	So that's 6 billion. kr., which must be saved, and when you have to save them, it also has some influences out there. Can the rapporteur so reveal where it is that you have to find this 6 billion? kr.? After all, it is 6,000 million. kr., you have to look for the public budget. It may well be possible to do so, but can the rapporteur reveal where the amendments are moving?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144206	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144208	Yes, because we must remember to say that the percentage is not very much to be found in the large budget, and of course we can. It is good that people want to know, and there will be no more than a month before we table our amendments. However, it is probably no secret that we believe both that there are problems in the job centres and that DR needs to be privatised, so there are a large number of points there. So, of course, we're going to finance that crown for crown.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144232	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144234	Well, that's exactly DR I'd like to talk to. I'm gonna have to sign sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen for a liberating honesty, in relation to where you see the ship going and in relation to where you stand. I think that serves the rapporteur in all honour and respect. But what is the reasoning behind de facto dismantling DR as the Danes' public service station?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144303	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144304	I do not accept the premise that the DR is being closed down. I think that the DR is probably doing good TV and good radio, and if they are doing so good TV and so good radio that people are actually willing to pay for it, then that is fine. But imagine that they were doing such bad radio and television programmes that no one would pay for it, if you set it free, why should the Danes be forced to pay for it over the tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144328	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144330	Well, it's a rather complicated discussion, because this is about the relevance of e.g. Danish media in the heads of the Danes, and at a time when we see Netflix, Disney and all the big corporations come up with huge budgets to produce all sorts of content other than Danish content, I simply find it so difficult to understand New Citizens, but in this way also at the time the Danish People's Party, which wants something with Danish culture, wants to promote it, in terms of what the reasoning is about cutting those who are in fact the main suppliers of Danish culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144409	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144410	I think that Jens Rohde should try to look at a TV show like this on DR one night, try to see what's being shown. Should it all be public service, i.e. Criminal Commissioner Barnaby and everything else? And then there's alone in the wilderness and all kinds of American programs. In other words, we still believe that there should be a public service pool that people can offer; we still believe that there is a need for public service, but we do not believe that it is lifted by throwing almost 4 billion. kr. Out to state-funded television.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144436	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144438	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I am a little confused because the chairman of the rapporteur's party was in the Deadline on 8 August and had to explain himself, and that is where she mentioned the amount of 85 billion. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. kr. But let's just say it's only 5 billion. kr. in the big picture, and apparently that doesn't mean the big thing in the new bourgeois. Well, I'd like to dwell a little more on this with the 100,000 public employees. I'd like to know: who are all these public employees that we have to go out and give a note? That's something anyway. And as I understand from the rapporteur and also when I see New Citizens' programme for their economic policy, this really is a three-year plan. It doesn't go to 2035 you have presented a concrete plan for the next three years, but what about all the other years? Do you have a plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144527	I think we should make every effort not to use direct indictment. A lot of people are doing it, and I'm just mentioning it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144532	Thank you. I understand that the rapporteur is confused, because apparently he has not listened properly. The 80 billion. kr. is, after all, increased growth when we become richer as a society. The 85 billion. kr. As I did not see in my speech, but as the rapporteur mentions, what we call greed is what we want to save by cutting down on the public sector. So these are two different numbers, and you would have known that if you had listened a little better. As for who it is, we are saying that it is, moreover, the technical calculation that we are going to point out year by year where they are to be found, and we are simply going to point this out in connection with amendments here. However, the premise that we only have people employed in the public sector who perform basic core welfare tasks is completely mistaken. Someone also asked, "What nurses are they supposed to be fired?" Listen, there are 36,000 nurses, but we have gathered around 850,000 public employees who are well enough up to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144628	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144629	Now I am a little more confused, it may be said, because the rapporteur also mentions that the government should copy the plan that exists, but the government cannot come up with a plan that goes to 2035, which is not financed at all. This is a three-year plan. You don't have a plan. You're not really pointing at anything. Where are all the public posts? Where are they supposed to come from? Where are the 85 billion? kr. Come from? You will not point to any of the 100,000 civil servants you will only point to 6,000-7,000 people a year. That's not good enough. Do you have a plan or don't you have a plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144700	I repeat what I said about the direct indictment. It's slipping. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144705	We have to agree that we can accept the premise that we can make a long-term plan, setting up a target number and then filling it out afterwards. Because if the government has to do so in connection with the climate plan, then all other parties must also make a basic long-term plan and then fill it up continuously. And if you think that we must not, but that the government must, then it is and will be pure hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144729	Thank you. There is no further comment to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, so we move on. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909144742	Thank you. If one now imagined that the government's financial law negotiations were going into complete deadlock and that it reached the turn of the year and no agreement had been reached on a new financial law, then it would happen that the bureaucracy would start and continue the old budgets from the financial year 2021 into a bureaucracy finance law in 2022, one could call it that. The draft Finance Act presented here by the government is, in fact, just such a bureaucracy finance law. There is virtually nothing that is not just a continuation of the expenditure budgets in 2021, which will then continue in 2022. It is pure bureaucracy, pure technocracy, no political direction at all. There is just over a billion kroner that the Finance Parties can negotiate on top of a public budget of over 1 100 billion. kr., which just continues virtually unchanged. So there is no political direction, one is apparently just content to sit and manage what is there. What do we need? I think that, especially in these weeks and these months and these years, we lack a government that uses the Finance Act as a starting point to solve one of the major economic challenges we have at the moment, and also a great moral challenge that we have at the moment, namely the fact that there are plenty of job vacancies out there on our labour market • jobs that can be taken care of by anyone who just has normal health but who does not become obsessed, despite the fact that we also have hundreds of thousands of people who are in unemployment statistics, not because there is something wrong with them, but simply because they are claimed to be unemployed. There's nothing about that. This also makes it very apparent that the government does not believe that it can use its parliamentary majority for anything when it comes to serious policy in Denmark. Social democracy was elected by a red majority in the Folketing so that a social democratic government could be formed on the basis of the red majority. However, when we have one of the fundamental issues for Danish society, both economically and morally, namely that we need people to make an effort for their own food, both because it is the right way to do it, but also because it is necessary for us to have a prosperous society in the future, the government, when presenting the Finance Act, recognises that this is not something that can be done with the parties that are expected to make financial legislation. The Enhedslisten cannot be used to encourage people to take a job; SF can probably not be used either; the alternative cannot be used; Free Greens cannot be used; perhaps even parts of the Social Democracy cannot be used for it. This might explain why, in addition to some negotiations to which the blue parties are to be called, we are having such a cold that we can do nothing but get 10,000 more in work, which we have pulled out of the labour market with our Arnepension. That is the only thing that the Social Democratic Party can manage to do, i.e. to make up for its own damage • 10,000 out on Arnepension, then we try to get 10,000 young people in by doing something about the graduation allowance. Social democracy speaks a lot sometimes, it comes in waves, depending on what is modern to say in the Socialist Party about right and duty: we Social Democrats are in favour of the right and duty to go together. You have some rights in this society, but you also have some duties, including... a duty to work if you are able to do so. But the history of social democracy, with the construction of the social democratic social state that we know today, is that more and more rights have been introduced and duties have been eroded and duties have been eroded and duties have been eroded. This is the way one has gone from having 200,000 Danes of working age on transfer income in 1960 to having one million Danes of working age on transfer income at one time in the 1980s, and we have fortunately come down from that again to 700,000 Danes of working age on transfer income. This is a consequence of the fact that the Social Democratic Party speaks of right and duty, but above all extends the rights to live off other people's money and removes the obligation to support itself in one place, most recently with Arnepensionen. I do not think that the question is whether 10,000 is enough for the need that we have today in Denmark for additional labour. That's not enough, we know that. Companies are crying out for labour to a much greater extent than 10,000 extras, which is what the Social Democratic Party can offer. The big question is: why have we created a society where it can be done for people who are fully able to take a job, an unskilled job, within the many companies that are currently asking for it, not to do so? Why have we created such a society? I would like to have 10,000 extras at work, I would like to have 50,000 extras at work or 100,000 extras at work, as happens with the Liberal Alliance 2030 plan. I do, but the most important thing for me is that we cannot have a society that, like, allows both economic and moral, that when you can contest a job, you say no. One newspaper article after another, and one TV feature after another, is coming forward at the moment with people who are healthy and bodily, capable, have completed a 5-year education or perhaps a craftsman's training, but who do not bother to take any of the available jobs that are available. The reporters just have to go down to the job center and stick a tape recorder up to a random person coming down there, and then they have a person who is perfectly capable of working, but who doesn't even bother those jobs that are at the moment. It is a product of social democratic society, it is a product of social democracy having talked about right and duty without doing anything about right and duty. And social democracy still doesn't matter. Today we have a proposal that we should do something about the young people who have received higher education and are at the graduation stage, that they should feel the incentive to take a job. Yes, they must, we agree, we want to implement it, but that is not enough; it is not enough. If, for example, you're gonna have to... Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have lost our job as a skilled worker somewhere, and we have an opportunity to work in Silvan because we have the ability to advise on what timber is to be used when Mr. Hansen comes and has to do his own self-project, so you have to have a motivation to take that job. Instead, the government proposes that that person should receive 5,000 more per month in daily allowance so that it can pay even less. After all, there is no real ambition on the part of the government and the Social Democrats to do something about this problem. We in the Liberal Alliance have three proposals that can address the problems. First of all, we propose that no Danes who are in work should pay tax on the first DKK 7,000 they earn every month. It increases the difference between being out of work and being in work with DKK 1,600. a month. A family where there are two adults at work will receive DKK 3,200. extra a month for themselves, depending on whether they are not at work or they are at work. This is something that can be felt, and it is something that will increase the incentive to take a job and take the work that you can get. The second thing we are proposing is that the benefit period, which today is 2 years, should be halved to only 1 year. I say only, but one year is a long time to find a new job. I would venture to claim that if there are people today who are otherwise healthy and bodied who do not find jobs in one year, it is because they do not take the job they can get. There are no healthy and bodied people in this society who have an unemployment rate beyond one year, who are actually willing to take the work they can get not if they are healthy and bodied. So I don't understand the need to have a 2-year benefit period. You can easily find a job in one year. The last thing we are proposing is to reinstate the ceiling on cash benefits, which has been temporarily abolished by means of an additional family allowance for families with children, and which the Red majority might permanently put out of effect. We need to get that back. Working in Denmark must pay off. The Liberal Alliance has the tools, the government and the Social Democrats have it only in their mouths.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909145749	Thank you. Mrs Birgitte Vind, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909145752	Thank you. I have to say that once again the social democracy's various proposals, not least the reform proposal, receive a lot of attention, but otherwise I would like to thank you for your speech. I would like to talk again about the policy of the Liberal Alliance, and it was nice to hear that something came in here at the end. I have also noticed that the Liberal Alliance would like to put an end to employment in the public sector, and we are almost told that it is a major disaster when more people are employed in the public sector. Now we have just been through corona, where we have employed grafters and test personnel, and I just want to know if the rapporteur also thinks that this is a disaster.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909145828	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909145829	No, they were supposed to be used, but now they don't have to be used anymore, and that's the point of our recruitment stop. It's that now we have to go down to a level that was before the corona crisis. Those people I think it's about. 27,000 additional people who have been employed in the public sector during the Corona period cannot be available to private companies which are currently in demand for labour. And this means that Denmark is missing out on potential growth and wealth, and we are missing out on companies that can develop because the public sector has greedily put itself on an increasing proportion of the labour force. At some point someone has to say that the public sector is now big enough in Denmark. We cannot continue to increase the public sector, so at some point we end up with 100 per cent. of the Danes are public employees, and what are we actually going to live on in this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909145926	Mrs. Birgitte Wind.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909145927	Well, I can certainly see that what has happened in Corona is that we have had a really good cooperation between the private sector and the public sector. It has been quite unique to see how the Danes have sat at home and worked, although they have been employed in the private sector, and made things play, and at the same time the government has worked very, very well. We have actually seen something quite unique in Denmark, and we are the country that has come out of the crisis the best, because we have worked well together in the public and private sectors. Does this give time with corona, where it has actually gone very well, because the public and private have worked so well together, not just the rapporteur, in relation to whether the public sector in Denmark is actually working properly?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909150007	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909150008	There are large parts of the public sector in Denmark that are very well functioning. And the Liberal Alliance also thinks that the public sector, like private companies, should try to do better from year to year. with the money you have, try to make it a little better. That is something private companies can find out, and we believe that this can also be found out in the public sector. The Liberal Alliance's proposal, when you implement our whole plan, is that we in Denmark should have a tax burden which is about as much as in Sweden, and in Sweden they also have a public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909150041	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909150042	Thank you. I was looking forward to getting the question from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, when I was on the platform here. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen has made it a tradition to ask me when I made my election promise about a motorway around Kolding. In the year in which the election promise has been implemented, I do not get the question. It's a double standard, it's not okay. That was to be asked, which I deserved after having answered for so many years. Does it not make a certain impression, now that we have heard of how miserable social democracy is to pursue economic policy, that it is actually going relatively well, to put it in Jutland? It is the highest growth in 15 years, an employment that is historically high. Some of the figures have to be seen in relation to where we come from, but, for example, an employment that is historically large should not be seen in relation to an upswing from the years of crisis. It is simply an expression of our ability to run an economy that is very, very successful. Doesn't that make an impression?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909150148	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909150149	First of all, about motorways: yes, I was nervous that the Social Democracy would not implement the things that Social Democracy was going to elect in relation to traffic investment, and that is why I have put all the pressure I could, all the time, while the Social Democrats have been slobbering on that subject. Whether that pressure has had an effect, I don't know anything about it. It is possible that everything had been done anyway, but I think that it certainly did not hurt that I put pressure on it, and that is why I put pressure on it. This was not necessary for a long time, because at least the motorways around Kolding were completed. The thing about boasting that you have a high growth when the economy has gone down like this because of corona and is now finding its way back on the old track is a little stupid. Well, everyone knows that the background to this is not a fantastic policy from the government, but is that you are out of corona and the economy is on the way in a better direction. High employment in Denmark comes from the fact that over the years some reforms have been carried out especially in relation to retirement age, which means that more and more people work in Denmark, and neither can the Social Democracy take credit for that. On the contrary, it is often something that has been achieved without the Social Democrats having wanted to be involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909150259	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909150300	It is true that a great deal of pressure has been put on infrastructure investment. Well, that's had an effect, isn't it? What it is all about is in the dark. In relation to the economy: it is true to look at growth, it is a ratio that has some sort of connection with the years ahead, but employment is not so. So this is a confession case, and one should recognize that, especially when, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen has been one of the hardest critics of economic policy, the crisis policy that has led to such good results. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909150354	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909150355	Let's go, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen fits in with the recycling of his speech lines from his questions to the Left, because I have not really had much concern about the deficit that has been incurred in the corona years. I know that Danish economy is solid and that Danish economy could be. There have been some of the costs which I think have been a little exaggerated, but I have not as a whole questioned that Denmark could be indebted during a period when the economy is such because of corona and where Denmark has the sufficient basis for doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909150429	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909150432	It is more because I think the rapporteur's speech forgot, and I would like to help with that, just as recognising and commending the Social Democrats that American growth has also set a record and that growth in the UK also sets a record. We must also thank the Social Democratic Party here in Denmark for this, in other words that it also looks like this around the world. We cannot attribute that to anything other than social democracy. My question will be on growth in 2023. When we look at 2023, the growth is funny enough to fall to 2.80%, and the question is how high it could have been. I mean, an increase of 2.8%. is perhaps quite high in a Danish context, but it is not if we look internationally.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909150510	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909150513	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen to draw attention to the fact that social democracy has also created growth in the United States and England. It is true that social democracy has done so. We have a lot to thank the Social Democratic Party for in this world. It is true that the growth rates in Denmark today are not as they were 50 years ago. Denmark entered the 1960s with tremendous economic growth; I think it had growth rates of about 4% at that time. Or something like that. The Social Democrats did, of course, primarily do double the tax burden in Denmark, they swallowed up a lot of people in the public sector, instead of being available in the private sector, and since then we have seen more moderate growth rates on when things are going well, about 2%. Or even 2.80%, which you think is really nice. It's never gonna be 4 per cent. At least. Then you can discuss what is the reason why we now have lower growth. I clearly believe that this is because we have a public sector that is too large and a tax burden that is too high in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909150619	Thank you. Then there are no more questions for the rapporteur. The alternative is not present, so we move on. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909150653	Thank you. Listen to a song about Nothing Nothing is the Hull;/But, decorated a little with Klang and Kling,/It will be possible Something like this wrote Hans Christian Andersen in the poem •Nothing and Something from 1830. And it could actually have been such a prologue to this year's government finance bill. And now the finance minister is looking up at me and thinking, "Now we're gonna have to go back to that bullshit forever, and that's probably a criticism. But it really isn't, for every thing in its own time. In fact, I would like to commend the government for making an incredibly boring financial law. On top of a time that has been so turbulent, and when we are not yet fully aware of what we are really looking into in the coming year, I think it is actually very healthy to stop, also because we have had a very large amount of money required by the Corona crisis. So I think it's very good to take a look at the time. This is what this Finance Act does, because much Ramashang is certainly not above it. The ideology cannot be used here. It is always something we love to use as an instrument for the discussions we have with each other, but sometimes the world needs an expansive policy, and sometimes the world needs a contractual policy. Sometimes speed is not understood as the material, but as speed on the car and other times you have to slow down a bit. And now, that's how I read the Finance Act... the government chooses to stop and watch the clock. That is wise, and I would like to commend it for that. It's rare to get praise for being boring, but this time it's gotta be. That does not change the fact that we are faced with a huge problem in terms of labour supply. And it is simply an imperative that we resolve this problem of labour supply. I understand that the government chooses to separate it from the Finance Act, although one might immediately think that it is a little strange, because after all, we have only one budget, that is, the state has only one budget. The Minister of Finance must be able to confirm this from the platform later on. But that is why it is still quite reasonable if you have to get some pants out of the skin of creating a larger job offer, where we know that there are both analytical and political but also some ideological differences in how you look at that situation. There it is my assessment, without it being such a rose-speak, that the government has once again put a balanced line here, which everyone has the opportunity to bite into, although it in our world picture is a familiar unambitious one. Because just covering another hole, which I think Mr. Simpson... Ole Birk Olesen also mentioned, of 10,500 people who have been created by oneself, does not solve anything in the long term. And we have a much greater need for increased labour supply. For KD, an increase in labour supply is, of course, in reforms, but also reforms that should not always be understood as beating people up in the head. It is a little strange that when you talk reform in Denmark, you can also take a microphone and go out and ask the individual Dane: What value do you attach to the word reform? And then people will immediately think of it as having to fight in the head. It doesn't have to be like that. And it does not have to be the case that we all have to be forced to work until we are 88 or 98 years old. We do not think that is the way to go. On the other hand, we think that work can be rewarded, because if we want more work, that is to say a greater supply of work, we want to reward those who work, and that means that the tax must be reduced. There was a somewhat interesting reaction from the rapporteur or was it from the political rapporteur • I do not quite remember that in the context of the Conservative People's Party and Radical Left's proposal, which I find difficult to see ever to become anything unless, as I said, the Social Democratic Party comes along. But it sounded a bit like you wouldn't refuse to go into a discussion about, for example. To raise the limit of when we pay top tax. I would like to hear what the Minister of Finance has to say about that. After all, we believe that the limit for paying top tax should be raised to at least 800,000 kroner. If we do that, it will provide an employment of 5,700, and at the same time we would like to see an increase in the employment allowance from 10.65 to 26.6%. That gives an employment of 8,600. If we take it in and see what it means for the average family in Denmark, it is a reward for working at about DKK 29,000. a year. This is a way to go in and reward it with some reforms. We have it all funded in our 2030 plan, and it is all calculated with the methods of calculation of the Treasury. So there are ways in which we can reward it to work and create a greater job supply without it having to mean that we have to hit people on top of our heads. But we know that when we have a mandate in the Folketing we are not going to achieve it. And we probably do not believe that this is the level of ambition that we end up with if we are going to discuss taxes. There, however, I think that today's debate has shown that there are quite good tones and rifts between a large number of parties, which could perhaps help to draw it a little in the right direction. That is why it might be interesting to hear whether there is anything to come up with with the small opening that I interpreted came from the Social Democratic Party on the tax issue. The Minister for Finance has the opportunity to comment on this when he comes to the floor. We need to increase our labour supply, otherwise we will be poorer, and then there will not be enough people to carry out the welfare tasks that I also know the left is very interested in. I cannot believe that there is no point in throwing a lot of money into the public sector and saying that you invest in the public sector if there are no hands to do the job. That is why I find it strange that we will neither look at the tax nor recognise that there is a shortage of hands, that is to say the supply of labour, and in this way we will not at all be involved in foreign labour within the country's borders, which can also take some of the service jobs that are necessary also in the public sector, but the Left itself has to answer that question. At any rate, we are very open to any debate that can take us in the right direction, and we know that we will never achieve quite in line with the ambitions we have, but everything that is moving in the right direction we would like to sign for. We will certainly enter into the negotiations with an open mind on the basis that we actually think that what the government has presented both in the reform package and in the Finance Act is not so crazy at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909151644	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909151645	Thank you. Having heard the bourgeois rapporteurs speak today, one would think that they did not know the difference between job supply and employment, but you do. And that is why I just think that if anyone is even out there following this debate, we also owe it to say what it is, i.e. that labour supply is theoretical, of course we can empirically see that some of that job supply also turns into real jobs. I just think that's the most decent thing to do. From the SF's side we would really like to help raise hands, both for the public and the private sectors. That's just the way it is, and I totally agree with Mr. Jens Rohde that the word reform has been referred to as if it is something that hurts people, something that takes something away from them and that impairs their economy, their conditions, etc. We have something we call a red job offer, and it is again theoretical. We have the expectation that some of it will turn into real jobs and jobs. And it's about looking at improving it in relation to sickness absenteeism, improving the working environment. And marriage addiction is another thing. It is just to say that we are entering into the discussion, we just want to do it in that way, that we say that there is a very large difference between the type of reforms being implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909151818	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909151819	I am very much in agreement with the latter, and that is also why I am, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say a few words about the retirement age. I just get so tired of hearing that we're going to work until we're 98 years old, what kind of nonsense is that? I don't want to, I might as well say. And I think it's a stupid discussion. There are, of course, many ways to do these things, but the fact that there is a shortage of labour, that is to say hands, Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, is not very theoretical for those who are standing out there and lack the hands to be able to meet the demand that exists and thus trigger orders in companies. After all, it is a reality that is all too concrete, and it is all too concrete, as is currently the case. We have to deal with that. Then it is true that when we start to sit and make our calculations that it gives it employment and it gives it job supply and something like that, one can always discuss whether the Treasury's calculation model then gives a true picture. But that is, of course, the yardstick on which we have to work if we are to be able to talk about the same thing, and that is surely the prerequisite for us to reach each other in the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909151934	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909151935	That's a bit of a problem. We don't always talk about the same thing. For example: A few years ago, we had a discussion about what labour supply the reduction of registration tax would give. It started by being a very high figure, and it ended up being a somewhat lower figure when the Ministry of Finance had thought about it. And, of course, the best man's best guess is it's just again, just like saying that job offers aren't the same as employment. The wiser those who are counting on it become, and the more experience there is, the more one approaches it too. The loss of benefit was another example of the fact that labour supply did not end up equivalent to employment. Having said all that, I fully agree that real hands are missing, and that is why we must also try to put in place where it provides real jobs for real people.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909152027	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909152028	Yes, but that also presupposes, if we are to have that growth, that the labour market knows that there are some people to fill it. And we could talk about that at length. But I hope that we will have some self-confidence discussions here in the context of the reform, because it is not that simple. I therefore agree that the loss of benefit was due to the fact that, at the same time as the period of benefit was shortened, it was made more difficult to earn the benefit. That's where the trains hit each other. And that's the kind of interaction problem we have to avoid when we go in and look at it. I very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909152109	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909152111	I simply found it liberating to hear from the SF's rapporteur that the question of the supply of labour is a question of technical calculations, because now, for example, we have. in relation to the economic plan of New Citizens, which is based on technical calculations and which means that there must be fewer public employees, constantly on the left side driven by who it is so concrete that it is to be fired and everything else. So it's nice that you now recognize that this is based on technical calculation methods... it's nicely liberating. Now comes my question to the Christian Democrats. For me, the Job Centres are one of the most dysfunctional things we have in public. I have put the question to several of the parties, from the Enhedslisten to the Left and others who agree that this is a problem that we need to address. And I think I am almost being able to count to 90 now, and I know that the Christian Democrats have only one mandate, and we would like to have that vote too, so do the Christian Democrats agree that the job centres are one of the things we should have looked at?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909152207	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909152208	Yes, it says in the 2030 plan, which I always take with me on the platform, that part of our funding is based on a saving of 1.5 billion at first. kr. In addition to those already implemented and will be implemented to finance Arnepensionen. We do not think Arnepensionen was the best idea in the world. But we believe that something must be done there and that, without it going to cost jobs, we can save at least 1.5 billion. kr., and we are open to further discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909152249	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909152250	I'm gonna move into a completely different ball street. In the long-term plan of the new citizens, we have an objective that we have also financed, that we have to spend 2%. of bnp on our defense expenses. We can see that the United States has withdrawn in terms of world policy and that there is a vacuum, and it is perhaps now that you have to try to deliver on what was actually said by the Danish side that you would deliver on, namely that you would spend 2%. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. How do the Christian Democrats view this?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909152317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909152317-2	I don't think sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen finds a member of parliament who is more concerned that we must comply with our international obligations than you are. That then applies in all contexts, I should say hello and say. I mean, international commitments aren't a roof-top table for me. Unfortunately, it is for new citizens who you take the raisins out of the cake, so it is not always the case that we should apply them when it comes to human rights. But we do agree here, but we should just like to see it in a European context, and that is where I want us to have a stronger overall European dimension, not as opposed to NATO, but as something that complements our NATO membership. I think this is quite crucial if we are to play a geopolitical role in Europe in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909152410	Thank you. Then there are no more questions for Mr. Jens Rohde. Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909152427	Thank you for the floor. Recently I visited together with the Parliament's Greenland Committee and the Foreign Policy Name our capital Nuuk in Greenland. It is striking for everyone to see how much time there is in Greenlandic society, not only in Nuuk, but also in several cities around the country. In the capital city, we spotted construction sites and cranes wherever we were. A colleague from this point of view commented, and I quote: how nice it must be to be elected by the people and to see its country grow in this way. Quote out. The change and growth are overwhelming and to feel, but behind the cranes and the obvious growth that exists in Greenlandic society, there is also a backside that must not be concealed or forgotten, and one of the backsides is the many suicides we have in Greenland. In Greenland we have the world's highest suicide rate, we have an average of about 80 suicides per 100,000 inhabitants, which is equivalent to about 40-50 suicides every year. The suicide rate for the last 25 years has been six to seven times higher than in the rest of the Nordic countries. It is a harsh reality which we must deal with at home in Greenland, but which I also think is important to highlight here. It is a lost brother, a lost daughter, a best friend away from one day to the next. And almost everyone in Greenland has had suicide close to life, so have I. Up to 1960 there were very few recorded suicides in Greenland, and later the number of suicides has increased explosively. Developments may well be due to the modernisation that we have been going through in a very short time. The development to which other countries have had several generations to get used to has been achieved in Greenland in a few decades. The police also report that they are receiving more and more suicide threats. Before, the figure was around 700-800 threats a year, today the police receive around 1,200 suicide threats annually. It should be remembered that it is a population of 56,000 people, so these are some very violent figures. Therefore, in the years to come we will also focus on mental health for young people in Greenland from Inuit Ataqatigiits. We want some funds to be set aside to support the many good measures that, as such, are intended to prevent suicide at home in Greenland, but we also believe that when the police are so badly affected by these many suicides, which of course include the police in Greenland and are therefore also our responsibility, this is something that we also need to be aware of. The police already do suicide prevention and cooperate with a large number of Greenlandic authorities today, but this is something we would like to look into to see if this is something we can help to support even better from here. In 2019, a majority of the Danish Parliament's parties set aside 80 million. kr. to combat sexual abuse of children in Greenland. Naalaksusususut set aside 20 million. kr. for the same purpose, the bets are ongoing and they run until 2024 where they will be evaluated. Inuit Ataqatigiit in the Danish Parliament has long been working to focus on early and preventive action. We need to do everything possible to prevent these attacks while ensuring that they are treated in the same way as those who have been subjected to them. For a long time we have wanted children's houses to be established around Greenland in the five Greenlandic municipalities, and we believe that there is good reason to give priority to this. We are not alone in this recommendation. Better Children's Life is one of the associations we have recommended, and recently the Greenland Committee met with the Minister of Justice and the police chief in Greenland, where the police chief also recommended that children's houses be established in Greenland. A children's house in Greenland can be based on the Icelandic model with a one-door principle. This means that the child and the family should only turn to one place where professionals from both the police and the courts, a Danish responsibility in Greenland, health authorities and social services, which are Greenlandic authorities, can stand together and help these children and families. Specifically, we see that there are a great many cases that are rejected due to lack of evidence in cases of sexual abuse, and we believe that children's houses can help to strengthen the collection of evidence in these cases. This can help to create a secure environment in relation to video interrogation of children, which is currently taking place in different places, and it can also help to ensure that there is treatment for the child in all one and the same place. That is why we in Inuit Ataqatigiits want money to be set aside for a pilot project. Some of the places that are mentioned where there is a great need, including: by our child speaker in Greenland, from MIO, Tasiilaq, Ilulissat and Maniitsoq, so we look forward to discussing it with the government. Tasiilaq, in fact, hears a lot about, including in the Danish media, and, most recently, an immediate ban on alcohol has been imposed because of the many violent incidents that have occurred, including two suicides, within just a few days. In Tasiilaq we also know that 50%. the children have a cause of concern in the municipality, and these are some very violent figures that we think are appropriate to some thoughtfulness. A pilot project with children's houses will also mean that we start an important piece of work in collecting knowledge up to 2024 when the 80 million. kr. This is the end of the project for which we have set aside money. It may sound very harsh when I bring up these things, but that is also the reality in which the police are in any case and which I believe we have a political responsibility to help ensure that we do our part to contain. Many of these issues are, of course, matters of responsibility at home in Greenland, that is to say, the responsibility for the social area, but we also think that we have to look at whether we can do more to break the curves in these areas. Tasiilaq, Ilulissat and Maniitsoq are probably some of the most beautiful places that exist in Greenland, and many of you may have already been there, and when you tell these harsh things, it is of course also important to say that there are also good resource people present that there are good families in those cities, but we believe that there has to be more focus on helping those who are in difficulty. A third priority for Inuit Ataqatigiit is the branding of Greenland. Denmark knows that more money is needed to kick-start tourism after covid-19, and in the autumn of 2024 the new runway opens in Nuuk, and the following year the runway opens in Ilulissat, which has come up with public funds from Naalakersuisut and the state. Visit Greenland is looking into having to make a marketing campaign, and there is no doubt that Greenland has a responsibility, but we think that we can work together, also with the Danish Parliament, to contribute part of the marketing efforts that are needed. For the new runways not only creates the tourism boom that Greenland's economy needs, there is a need for the development of the entire tourism industry, and we also need to spread tourism throughout the country. As part of the construction of being a tourist country, we also believe we need to look at Greenland's art and culture scene and the opportunity to convey Greenlandic art to tourists. Right now work is being done on establishing a national gallery in Greenland, and to support this Inuit Ataqatigiit will also include it in the negotiations, and a contribution to being something that will really be welcomed by the national gallery. Later this year I also expect us to discuss the future justice system in Greenland. It was a theme when we were in Nuuk and for that purpose I also think that a measure of the legal sense of the Greenlandic people is appropriate. The latest measurement we had is from 2015, and it is something that is also measured in Denmark, i.e. whether the law fits in with the feeling that people have, and there we see very often in Greenland that it does not necessarily do so, at least if we look at the public debate. So we'd like to have a measurement on that. Another point we would like to make is the strengthening of avalanche preparedness in the wake of Search and Rescue on land, where we will look at how to cooperate with voluntary forces that are already well under way. Something else is hymn books for the Greenlandic congregation in Denmark. Again this year we are calling on the government to continue supporting UArctic, which ensures the exchange of students and teachers in the Arctic, and we are supporting the parties that are also fighting for Georg Stage to get a permanent grant because we know that there are a lot of Greenlandic young people who are also on these voyages. These are a lot of things, but at least I look forward to the debate and hope to have some questions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909153428	Unfortunately, there are no questions, so thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Then it's Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, Siumut.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909153452	Thank you for the floor. After all, it is a wonderful day today to discuss budget proposals, because the weather is with us. Since the 2019 elections, when Siumut joined the Danish Parliament again, we have secured historical initiatives for Greenland in close cooperation with the government through the Finance Act. For decades Greenland's police and asylum officers have been fighting for higher wages, where they went further and further behind. For Greenlandic asylum officers, the pay difference was up to 5,000 DKK. a month compared to a Danish cop in a country where the cost of living is so high that a cucumber can cost up to 40 DKK. It wasn't enough money to live for, and you made more money by working down at a sausage bar than you did by being an asylum officer. That is why there was also a great lack of officers, and this was also a disastrous challenge for the entire Greenland legal system. Greenlandic police officers have the same level of education as Danish police officers, yet the Greenlandic officers work more, but receive less in salary. It was a huge backlog from previous negotiations, which could not only be solved by the associations and federations in Greenland, and for the same reason a large part of the Greenlandic policemen went away from their much-loved jobs and found other jobs that gave a better salary. The well-educated and experienced Greenlandic police officers simply could not be maintained. However, with the North Atlantic pool on the Finance Act in 2020, Siumut insisted on making a pool exclusively for wages, so that we could push on so that trade unions would also give priority to Greenland in the concrete wage negotiations. I am proud that we from Siumut, despite opposition from political negotiating partners who wanted to use the pool for other initiatives, insisted that the pool should go exclusively to salaries, because when the Greenland Committee was in Kalaalit Nunaat a few weeks ago, we visited both the police and the asylum officers. It was difficult not to be touched by the fact that institutional officers were finally available as a direct result of this wage increase. And the police association in Greenland finally got an agreement on a salary where you can keep the police officers in future. In addition, Siumut, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Elders, has also helped to secure 80 million. kr. to vulnerable children and young people in Greenland, and soon the Committee on Children's and Education also goes to Greenland to follow up on the work. Regardless of self-government, it is a fact that we are constantly part of the Danish Kingdom, which is why the membership of the Folketing for Greenland remains. That is why, as Members of Parliament, we also have a responsibility to ensure that the empire as a whole is linked, politically, emotionally, but to such an extent also financially, and the 50 million. kr. we used to raise the salaries of police and asylum officers, or the 80 million. kr. In the large picture, children at risk may not be quite as much compared with, for example, children at risk. the 19 billion mink compensation. kr. or the 21 billion. kr., you use for training support every year, but that's the 80 million. kr. or those 50 million. kr. has moved a lot at home in Greenland. In this fact, the Danish Finance Act is a significant piece to ensure reciprocity and equality. This is an equality for which we must fight, especially in terms of responsibilities that we represent in the Folketing. It is a fact that the areas directly subject to the State and its responsibilities in Greenland must be given priority in order to ensure that equality and continuity. That is why I hope and believe that there is an understanding that some of the following elements must be taken seriously into account, which, in the best conviction of the Danish Parliament, must and must be given priority in future financial laws: this applies to the economic priorities of the whole of the Greenlandic legal system. During the visit of the Greenland Committee, we also saw the judiciary, which does not even have access to an electronic archive system. In addition, there were also long processing times, waiting lists to serve sentences, not enough capacity and resources for the institutions and not enough psychiatric treatment, and if you ask the management, it is always the same answer: lack of economic priority. This applies to emergency and measurement equipment designed to ensure safety on land and at sea. This year we have been to Uummannaq and visited some of the settlements. People are uneasy and lacking answers, as well as clarification of the safety of mountainslides, which could potentially lead to life-threatening tsunamis that have previously cost lives, and we in Parliament must provide the right warning equipment so that the people in the area can feel safe. In Norway and Switzerland, early warning systems for mountain slips and snowslides have been in place for years, and we can easily retrieve some knowledge from there. This also applies to Danish citizens with Greenlandic background who live in Denmark. There are several Danish citizens with Greenlandic background who are unfortunately forgotten in Denmark. We see alarmingly that well-functioning Greenlanders tell about racism and unlawful forced removals of children and the experience of being lost in the system in Denmark. It is important to remind everyone in the Chamber that the Greenlanders in Denmark I am talking about are your constituents. We are talking about the fact that they live in your constituency and therefore also need your attention. In this fact, the Danish Finance Act is a significant piece to ensure this reciprocity and equality. In each budget bill, funds are set aside for various negotiations that are being negotiated in the respective ministries, and in these negotiations we from the Greenlandic parties are often not invited, and while I am here trying to draw parallels between the finance bill debate we are going through and where the majority of the Danish Parliament would like to focus on the government's proposals and their own visions, I would like to come and talk about Greenland, because it has sometimes been surprising how much the different ministries have actually had responsibilities for Greenland. And even if we from Greenland represent just one mandate from our own party and thus have all the rapporteurs, it would, after all, be appropriate for us at least to be invited to the negotiations that are in the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Culture and all the other ministries. It is possible, as we have seen that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Elders has invited us to the reserve negotiations before, which has worked well. We are all members of parliament on an equal footing and can therefore also be invited to these debates, if only as observers who have the right to speak. In view of the priorities I have just pointed out, I must conclude by saying that in this form of prioritising of the state's tasks for Kalaalit Nunaat and Danish citizens with a Greenlandic background, it is important to have close cooperation between Kalaalit and members of the parliament. Therefore, later this year Siumut would also like to come up with a very concrete proposal for a new constellation to enable members of parliament and Inatsisartut to find solutions to challenges that concern Greenland but are Danish responsibilities. For as long as we are under the one state of Denmark, we must also ensure that it takes place in mutual respect for one another, thereby reinforcing equality between countries. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909154249	Thank you. There's no question, so we'll move on to mr. Edmund Joensen, SP, from the Faroe Islands. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909154301	Thank you for the floor. Today, when we first deal with the draft budget for 2022, I think it is important that we North Atlantic Members also contribute to the debate, as far as I am concerned, from a Faroese angle. I have been elected to the Folketing on several occasions, with changing governments and changing views and priorities in relation to the Faroe Islands and the North Atlantic in general. I would therefore like to commend the government for giving such priority to the North Atlantic and really involving us in the processes of the Finance Act. I have only met the goodwill and sympathy of the Minister for Finance in the two previous financial legislation negotiations during this parliamentary term. I am convinced that will also be the case when, later in the autumn, we will sit down and negotiate the North Atlantic priorities in the 2022 Finance Act. I will not go into my specific priorities today. I shall start by discussing these with the Minister for Finance himself. The Finance Act will lay down the financial framework for the forthcoming multi-annual agreement on criminal justice. And as you are all aware, this agreement will also include the criminal justice services in the Faroe Islands, as it is a matter of real estate. I have pointed out on several occasions that the situation in the Faroese criminal services is not up to date and should be improved. In the 2021 Finance Act, we were allocated 1.5 million. kr. to examine the conditions of criminal justice in the Faroe Islands. The analysis is complete and it clearly shows that the only solution to solve the necessary challenges is to build a new framework for the Faroese Criminal Services. That is why there will be a great call for the government to think in terms of the means to build a new physical framework for criminal justice in the Faroe Islands. There is no doubt that there is not much money in this area, and I, as a Faroese representative in the Folketing, would urge that something be done about that. The Department of Justice and the police are a real concern and must be negotiated and given priority here in the Danish Parliament and not in the Faroe Islands, which is why I am today making this call. I would like to take up with the Minister for Justice the very debate on the issue of criminal justice in the Faroe Islands for the negotiation of a multi-annual agreement on criminal justice. In conclusion, I would like to thank you for a good debate today. I look forward to presenting Sambandsflockkurin's priorities for next year's Finance Act to the Finance Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909154700	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909154705	Thank you. I'm on the Faroes Committee, so I thought I'd better ask a question. I understand that it is the criminal services that are worried about in the Faroe Islands. It may be that Mr. Edmund Joensen would be kind enough to tell us what the situation is now and what it is you want. In other words, as I hear it, you want completely new facilities, or what exactly are you looking for?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909154728	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909154729	What is urgent is what concerns prisons and prisons in general. There you have been making some preliminary solutions for years, you can say and today you use an abandoned building up in the mountains for the purpose, but it must be considered as interim solutions. And that also means that, even if we spend money on new facilities, it will also mean considerable savings in the long term, because there is a great deal of transport associated with what is happening today, also through the relocation of prisoners between countries, in other words prisoners who could otherwise be in the same place, close to the city and without the large transport, etc. In fact, it is an update that needs to be updated.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909154849	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909154856	Thank you. When you are a politician, you tend to try to usurp as much power and influence as possible, and in this context, the minimum requirement will be that you should at least sit at the table when the budget law is negotiated. But I have never demanded that, and I will not actually demand it this time either, because the Faroe Islands and Denmark have different economies. After all, it is such a fairly fundamental principle or basic rule of politics in a democratic system that voters and taxpayers are the same people, so that if they choose to burden taxpayers, they are also voters and can punish them by throwing him out of parliament next time. My constituents will not be affected by what I was able to negotiate in the budget negotiations, and it is therefore unreasonable that I should be involved in imposing burdens on Danish citizens. It must be that what I do hits my own constituents, and it does not do so in this context. However, although the Faroe Islands and Denmark each have their own economy, the Danish and Faroese economies are connected vessels. The most obvious example of this move from one vessel to another is the figure in the Finance Act. This time it's about 640 million. kr., which is block grant from Denmark to the Faroe Islands. It's like the most obvious example of it. In addition, of course, the police and the judiciary, criminal justice and so on, which Edmund Joensen has just spoken about, and when changes are to be made in these areas, we are, of course, with and negotiate with the Minister of Justice on this; that is clear because it is a common matter for the whole kingdom. When it comes to the associated vessels, money goes the other way too. We are two economies, but we are one rich one. This means, for example, that if I buy a car, what do I know, a Toyota in the Faroe Islands, Toyota has an agency in Denmark that receives money every time a car is sold in the kingdom. The money is inside the Danish Treasury, and it is also a Danish company. Many times you buy goods in the Faroe Islands, which have been imported from, for example, the Faroe Islands. Norway or Great Britain, and then money falls to a Danish company because the company in question has the agency for the Danish state. Thus money is moved from the Faroe Islands to Denmark. When buying digital goods or services in the Faroe Islands, for example. from HBO or Netflix or Spotify or Apple or Microsoft or Disney or Playstation, or whatever they're all called, it's getting more and more money we spend on it, so the big companies charge VAT. They have one system in the Danish state. They collect VAT and they pay them back into the Danish Treasury. Thus, from the Faroe Islands, a great deal of money in VAT is paid to the Danish Treasury, which should legally belong to the Faroese Treasury. There are a lot of Danish companies in the Faroe Islands, and the profits to the shareholders of the companies that are Danish owned are of course Denmark, and for a large part it is tax-free money because of the Nordic double taxation agreement. So a whole lot of tax-free money is moved from the Faroe Islands to Denmark. Of the money moved to the Faroe Islands as block grants, a quite, quite significant part is used to buy services from the Danish hospital service. We have different hospitals, but we buy a lot of services. For example: is bought, as it were, all cancer operations at the cost of the Rigshospitalet. That way a great deal of the money will come back. That is why, of course, it is different economics, but connected vessels. That is why I do not think it is quite unreasonable that, although I do not call for a direct debate on what the whole budget law should look like, we should look together at which projects, joint Danish-French projects, joint Community projects we can jointly find funding for. We have been doing this in recent years, and I have been very pleased with that. The people who have these projects, who are working on these things and who have been supported by the Danish government, who are in some way common rich projects, are either the cultural heritage projects or some projects that have to do with the whole realm in some way. They have then decided to give some ear to that, and I have been very pleased about that, and these are the people who are concerned, too, very, very satisfied with it. And I hope that this time we can also have a conversation about this debate, if you like, if we cannot find some things together, in which we can put some crowns in for the common good of the kingdom. Then I would like to ask the Minister if we can find projects such as these which we can support from the Finance Act this time too. It'll be the only wish I have. How else to distribute money internally in Denmark is not really my concern or my constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909155439	Thank you. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909155442	I got so curious. Now you were talking a lot about taxes, and I'm a tax rapporteur, so I got really interested in that. Then I remembered that now we are going to the Committee on Taxation to the OECD and to talk to them about this global minimum taxation that we are talking about. Denmark has actually been too small to sit at the table, and so have the Faroe Islands. How do you view this global minimum tax? You've taken back the tax area. What do you have in mind in this regard? Have you ever thought about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909155520	I feel like a pedant every once in a while, but we must stick to the Rules of Procedure, which do not address each other directly.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909155531	Now I'm going to do one thing that's very unusual. One must always pretend that one has a clear opinion, has a clear attitude and a clear insight into something that one is asked about. My answer is, I don't know. Simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909155550	Thank you. And then it's sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909155601	These were both humble and honest words from our Faroese friends. To begin with, I would like to thank the government for its intention to abolish the spouse-dependent benefits for pensioners and early retirement workers. It is a good thing, purely human, and it is a good thing in economic terms. It would have dressed the government to have given a little more credit for the idea of the abolition • e.g. to the 50 000 citizens who are behind the citizens' proposal for the abolition of benefits, and perhaps even to the Alternative and Enhedslisten, who have worked hard, for the Socialists to have this revelation about abolishing these spouse-dependent benefits. No matter what, we're still away happy on behalf of all those who are now free of love treasure. We believe that abolition will bring with it many good things. For example: there will be a lot of housing available, and there we will have to remember the homeless, because there may be 1,000 vacant homes at stake, and what is the big problem in the homeless area is to provide housing. On the other hand, we totally disagree with the need to reduce the graduation rate, and we hope that the government will not confuse matters so that it will have to vote in favour of it in order to be allowed to vote in favour of the abolition of mutual dependents. Nor do we like the one who intended forced activation of 37 hours a week for cash aid recipients; I know that it is a strong word, but it is almost such a modern slavery, that is, they have not come on slave ships, many of them have fled here, and we are not going to kill them if they do not want to work, but we are at least taking the basis from them, as far as I understand it. It is not the case that we let them decide for themselves what to do; we simply dictate what to do. I think there's too much compulsion. It is just before one should ask the Institute for Human Rights whether it is on the edge of the ideals of freedom. In the alternative, we'd like to redo the job centres. At the moment it is so popular to say that we should just close them, but we would actually like to give them a different form of organisation. Imagine if the job centres were owned by the organisations and companies that are actually supposed to provide jobs to the people who are at the job centres. If they were owned by local companies, they had been run by associations, municipal companies, entrepreneurs, NGOs, that is, those places that have just benefited from their labour force rather than that the job centres enter as such an intermediate role which, through consultants, has to offer the unemployed jobs. So we would like you to have an individual quality service when you enter the job centre. I know that I am quoted in the media today in several places to say that the job centres should be so fat that more will be unemployed, and that is of course a little cocky, but in fact there is meaning in the madness, because in the alternative we are working to establish cash aid without counterclaims, which means that we are setting the system free, we are freeing the case workers with their own professionalism to give the citizen's life back to the citizen and, of course, we are also setting the citizen free, because we believe that people will work well. We do not think it is necessary to force people. So we would rather give some quality support so that the job centre becomes a place where people seek help without being forced, instead of being the place that so many unemployed people are fighting against, while trying to get on their feet and find a job. In the alternative, we also very much disagree with Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen's attitude to the concept of work when she says that we must put an end to the persistent myth, that is that going to work should be pleasurable. So, we think it is a little arrogant when we, who have such an incredibly exciting and privileged job, demand from the poorest and most vulnerable Danes that they should take a job that they may not be able to endure in order for the rest of us to retain our privileges. I think we should say that instead of doing everything we can to ensure that people end up on the right shelves and are in a place where they thrive and where they want to be for many years. I am sure it will reduce the number of sick days. I am sure that people work with greater joy and greater efficiency when they like their work. But the second means that we are almost becoming such small production units in such a socialist system society. Well, even though we have discussed many other things today, this is a debate on finance law. We were puzzled in the Alternative when the Finance Act was presented. We had believed and hoped that the Minister of Finance would say that now we are turning from one crisis to another; that we appear to be on our way out of the Corona crisis, so we are now turning to a crisis that is far greater and will have much greater consequences in the future, namely the climate crisis, and that is why we are now arming up in climate action. It was our expectation that that was what would be said. Instead, the government came up with a proposal where less money is spent on climate than was spent last year. Here it seems for the alternative, as if the chain is jumping off. The UN has just told us that the 1.5-degree temperature rise comes 10 years before calculated. We have also been told that the weather changes we see in Denmark and the rest of the world are actually a direct result of our CO2 Climate Council, the Climate Citizen thing, all the green organisations also require action. At the same time, we are making a lot of bad agreements: the tax agreement, where we failed to make climate tax, so that the polluter himself will pay for his CO2 2 There are also big, crazy black construction plans in progress: the Egholm connection up in North Jutland, which is likely to smash the small island of Egholm with a motorway; Lynetteholmen, where you will build a brand new, large and unnecessary CO2 And when we even see a financial bill that drops the effort, even if the climate challenges accelerate, we do not think it is good enough. In the alternative, we think a lot in climate, but of course we do not think a hundred percent in climate, we also have other things we want to take to the financial law negotiations. We'd like a citizen's salary for artists. There are many artists who work in a way that simply does not work within the framework of the normal wage-work system, the secretariat, there are many people who do not fit into the framework. We would also like to have free dental treatment, for example, but it is clear that the participation of the Alternative in next year's Finance Act will be largely conditional on it being greener than this year's Finance Act, that is, the climate challenges are crying out that we are making finance agreements that are greener and greener for many years to come. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909160310	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909160313	I think I have a duty to correct Mr. Torsten Gejl, when he uses words as slavery, that something might be close to slavery, and when he says that maybe we should report it to the Institute of Human Rights, and that there are plans that when you come and ask for cash assistance, you should take a useful job at the municipality. Well, it's like this in life that we humans can't sustain our existence without doing a job. And there is the possibility that we ourselves will do so, or there is the possibility that others will work for us. And the fact that you are not able to get yourself or will not take the work you can get and then go down to the municipality means, of course, that the municipality can say: Yes, yes, we can give you some money and help you a little, but you have to do this for your money. It's not slavery. On the contrary, it would be slavery if every person in this country could say: I don't want to work; there are some others who have to work for me. It is slavery in the real sense of the word.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909160418	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909160420	After all, it should be the Liberal Alliance, which should be the liberal party that accepts human freedom, rather than human freedom being accepted far along the way, except when we are privileged to have those exposed to work for us, so that we can retain our privileges. So I do not think it is proper liberalism if it does not apply to everyone. It turns out in experiments around the world that when we set people free from coercion, they find marginally more work. That was, for example, the case. proven in Finland. They also felt better and had better health, which can save a great deal of money on health care. So that idea that people might of their own free will do what the Liberals actually think, I think that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen had to grow something more.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909160512	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909160515	It's not coercion. After all, the fact that we humans have to work to feed ourselves is not coercive. It's just nature, it's so arranged that we can't sit back, and then the food comes by itself flying into our mouths. That's why it's silly, sir. Torsten Gejl says. I could say, I don't want to work, sir. Torsten Gejl will work for me. Well, then, sir. Torsten Gejl has no doubt that it would be slavery. But the fact that you have the state as an intermediary and I go to the state and say that I don't want to work, someone has to work for me, and the state forces Mr. Torsten Gejl to work is slavery. But sir understands that. Torsten Gejl doesn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909160552	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909160553	That's where I believe more in people. It's so incredibly few people who don't want to work. So incredible, incredibly few that we'll never need them. Unemployment is never gonna be so low that we're gonna need those who don't want to work. On the other hand, very few people who do not want to work are allowed to dictate our employment policy so that we drive all those who want to work into such a compulsory regime. That's what doesn't work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909160621	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next person to speak is therefore the Minister for Finance, who is in a position to prepare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909160633	Thank you. First of all, thank you for a good debate. I've been looking forward to discussing the Finance Act with you here today. Let me start with the fact that several rapporteurs have called the Finance Act boring. I even think that Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen is quoted as a place to say that this is the dullest financial law since the Viking Age. Now I have not had the opportunity to discuss the matter with either Gorm the Old, Sweyn Forkbeard or Harald Bluetooth, but I am prepared to accept that it is probably right. I feel that if the exercise of due diligence and responsibility is boring, it is fine for me, because what is the situation we are currently in in Denmark? Last year, when we had a budget debate, we did not know exactly how the Danish economy would develop, but we were well aware that we were hit hard, that we risked that if we didn't handle things wisely, we would see a strong increase in unemployment, a lower level of employment, that one company after another had to turn the key and that the debt could rise a lot. That was the risk. So where are we today? It's a whole, completely different place. Today we are in a place where we can fortunately say to each other that we have the highest growth in the Danish economy for 15 years, that there has never been more Danes in employment than there is right now, that Denmark's debt is one of the lowest in the EU, that things are under control, that Danish economy is back on track. If it's boring, it's to live with. So what did we need last year? There we needed to get Danish economy going, that we pressed the accelerator to keep our hands on Danish jobs and Danish companies. Now it is going so well for the Danish economy that one of the things we need to be aware of is that we do not see an overheating that would be detrimental to companies, to jobs and to Denmark. In this situation, it is timely care to lighten the foot from the accelerator, and that is what we are doing with this year's Finance Act. I actually think that, uh... Jens Rohde said it very precisely when he said: Is it not wise enough, when we have been through such a turbulent time as we have, have put so many ships in the lake and so much have held hands under Danish economy, that now that things are going really well, we are just calm and not immediately, as the Folketing can occasionally have a tendency to nobody mentioned, no one forgets to set 117 new things in motion on a bill of finance, and that just money needs to be spent on one, the other and the third? The government has put forward a financial law in which we are still making sure that things are both in order, that it is responsible, that we exercise due diligence, but that we also have clear priorities. One of the priorities is to ensure that we take good care of our welfare. Therefore, one of the most important things in this year's Finance Act is something that has not happened in connection with the presentation, but in the agreements we made by the government with the municipalities and regions before the summer holidays, where we made sure for the third time in a row that when more children and older people arrive and that's nice and that comes with the money. We gave a boost so we could make things hang out out there. The three municipal agreements made under this government have given the municipalities a greater boost than the ten prior agreements combined. That's the way it is when you don't just talk about welfare, when it's not just nice headlines, but when it's concrete action. And I'd like to sign for that, among other things. Mr. René Christensen said that it is actually very sensible to have done so. Does that mean we've solved all the problems? No, but that means that we are giving a completely different opportunity to give education, care, the welfare that we, as a social democratic government, think is really important in our municipalities and for that matter in our regions. And that is why it is crucial that we have made the decision that when more children arrive and when more older people arrive, money comes with money. Does this mean that we must not constantly look at whether the money can be used more wisely and whether we can make it more efficient and whether there are new technologies or other tools that allow us to develop? No, because of course you have to. Of course it has to be thought in. But we're just giving a hero, completely different base under that welfare than it's been possible in the past. It is also timely care with regard to our citizens. Another place we're putting in with this year's Finance Act is to make sure that there is development, both in the cities and in the countryside. We also think this is very important: that Denmark is linked, that it is not the case that everything happens in the big cities and then we let the rest of the country take care of itself. We've seen it with the police, we're moving out locally. We see it in relation to tax centres, we have it in education, and we will also see it in relation to health. This is an agenda that is extremely important and which we are also prioritising in this year's Finance Act. We don't have a lot of new things we bring in, but this is one of them, and that's one of the most important things. Again: It's something that makes our country stick together. We have also said in relation to the Department of Criminal Services that we are covering, so there is now a bottom in the Department of Criminal Services. But we will not stop there, because negotiations will be called for later on in the field of criminal justice, where, like what was done when the police agreement was made, a new funding will be provided and will thus be able to give a boost to the police services. Because that's what we need. I think that among other things... Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt mentioned this today. There are some huge challenges in our Criminal Services. We have some employees who, under very difficult conditions, have to do an incredibly important job. We have a common obligation in this Parliament to give some better opportunities for this, and the Minister for Justice will take the initiative at a later stage. It is also a financial law where, fortunately, we can now begin to move out of the embrace of the Corona. But if there is something we have also learned over the last year and a half, it is that corona is an unpredictable size, and that is why we propose that what we call the war box be set aside at 4 billion. kr., for if there should be a setback in relation to corona or some developments that make it necessary that we put in and have some money on the book to be able to do so. I really hope we will not need that money, but if we do, it may be a bit boring, but it is timely care that money has then been set aside for it. And that's what we do. In other words, I hope that when it comes to the Finance Act, we can have some very good negotiations with the parties of the Folketing. We shall call them here in the course of the autumn, and I hope that as many people as possible will be prepared to take responsibility. It would be best for Denmark. But we're not gonna stop there. We, as a government, have also presented our reform trails and initiatives on how we are going to be on our way to corona, not just sit back and say that we are going well now, let us hope it continues, but on the contrary choose to use it, that things are going as well as a springboard to be able to take decisions that can help to secure Denmark for the next 10 years too. It is important that we have the ambition to do this for the benefit of our companies, for the benefit of our employees, for the benefit of Danish society as a whole. And we have not concealed the fact that this seems to us to be an essential condition for us to be able to seize the opportunities we have as a country at a time when things are going very well, even though there is also reason to recognise that there are still parts of our business that have major challenges. So what are we, among other things? Is busy? Yes, we are concerned that if we can make some sensible decisions, get more people into work and, moreover, have the courage to prioritise, we can get about two and a half billion dollars more a year, which we can invest in education, one billion more for green conversion and one billion more for permanentising the su allowance. It will be something that will be able to give a real boost to the education that we can give our children and young people, and we will not least focus on the fact that today we are in the situation that 45,000 of our young people are neither in education nor in employment • 45,000! It is a disaster for the individual young people and it is a disaster for us as a community and community. We need young people to come out and either get an education or a job. Young people need it, too. And that is why it is one of the things that we want to have a very, very strong and sustained commitment to, and I hope that the entire Parliament will also go in and take responsibility there. We are also saying that there are some gripes that we will apply, among other things. in relation to graduates, where we propose to reduce the benefit in order to get some of our young people who have completed their training more quickly into jobs. We also say that when you come to Denmark, and if you cannot support yourself, it is reasonable that you have a 37-hour working week on equal terms with everyone else. That's why I just have to say to Mr. Torsten Gejl, who believes that it is slavery or something that is approaching, to ask people who are in this country to make an effort on the money they get: I think it is quite wrong that Mr. Torsten Gejl calls it slavery. I will allow myself to call it common sense and quite reasonable. And if there is something that is really bad for a human being, then it is if you have no expectations of it. If you say, you know what, you get a check, but then you don't really have to engage anymore. You don't hear from us anymore, we don't expect to hear from you anymore, so it certainly helps to break down or undermine a community, and it certainly doesn't help to strengthen integration. That is why this is not just a question of crowns and ears for us as a government. It is also a question of right and duty; if one can contribute in the society of which we are all part, then one must contribute. Because that's what we need. If we are to ensure our welfare, if we are to ensure green development, if we are to ensure the power that makes this the most amazing country, then we cannot just sit back and tell people that if they can contribute, they really do not have to do so. And you can look at that differently, but that is the way we see it in the government. We are also deeply concerned about this, and I hope that Mr. After all, Torsten Gejl will be able to find more common ground with the government to bet even stronger on the green transition. And I would like to acknowledge that we have taken a number of decisions by various majorities, but broadly in this Parliament, which have helped us to deliver on the climate objective, the 70-percent objective by 2030, which brings us about halfway through two years. Does that mean we're in the finish line? No, of course not, but that means that we have come a very important part of the way. And we need to go further, and we currently have negotiations on agriculture, where the government has put forward its proposal, and where we hope that we can jointly land an agreement that both strengthens our climate action, deliver on our way to the 70%, but also ensures jobs and development in Danish agriculture and the food industry. That is the task we have there, and it is being negotiated with the Minister for Food, and we hope that a good agreement can be reached on this. In addition, later this year we have recommendations from the group of experts we have set up in relation to green tax reform, and in the proposal we have made to the Finance Act, we also have a negotiating reserve of 1.2 billion. kr., which we as a government hope we can get the parties of the Folketing to use, partly to strengthen our welfare, but also to the green transition and the climate. So, when we have finished the financial law negotiations, I will be incredibly surprised if new climate initiatives have not also been included in the final agreement. I don't think that's gonna happen. So there's enough going on here. Then, of course, I would also like to take this opportunity to comment on some of the speeches that have taken place during the day. First of all, I would like to say that on behalf of the government, I would like to invite the parties of the Danish Parliament to set meetings next week. And I would also like to sign that all the parties in the Danish Parliament have today indicated that they will enter into these negotiations constructively. I think that is really, really positive. I am also fully aware that in what the government has put forward, there is something that everyone can see, but also many things that one disagrees with. And that is something we have to take as a general rule in the negotiations that are going to take place. The government has an open mind, but we also have a clear direction, and that is to ensure that we can get funds, get money to invest in education, in green conversion, in giving our companies the opportunity for research and development, and that we also have to get more hands on the companies that are standing and need them. Then we will listen to any good ideas there may be and then we will see what we can create a majority for. But it is a positive approach that has come. It is politically so that it has been a year of incredible upheavals and sometimes surprises, and one of them, and it has been said with great veneration, came today, first on the front page of the Stock Exchange and later here in Parliament, where Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen said that a little against his usual nature, he would actually go constructively and very kindly into these negotiations, and I would like to sign for that. I'd also like to say that I think, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen's speech was an example of how this is to be followed up. And that approach from the Left in relation to the negotiations that are at the door, I think it is a good one, and I hope that we can find solutions there too. The same is true of Mr. René Christensen, who in addition to giving, I think, nice words in relation to what we have done with municipal and regional agreements, also reported that the Danish People's Party is so ready for negotiation. It is also a very, much appreciated message. And again: We don't agree on it all. I've taken it down. But I think we can agree on a lot, and that's really, really good. I also heard the Conservative People's Party being fundamentally constructive, although I had to listen a little longer, because there was a lot of fuss in the government, and it has to be a day like today that is quite fair. I could even understand what Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, that I had made him almost fall asleep when he read the budget bill, and I was delighted that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov has criticized me in the past for keeping him up too long. So if I could contribute that he could get to bed early, it has a value in itself. I'm kidding. I also see that the Conservative People's Party is on the ground constructively. The same applies to both the Liberal Alliance and the New Citizen. Again, it may be that much of it will be difficult, but I also hear from the two parties a desire and a willingness to find solutions. We shall then have to try that out in the negotiating rooms, and I think we can. In any case, I am not frightened by the messages that come out I do not agree with everything, but I take it down when you take aside all the rhetoric that there is a willingness to cooperate. The same has to be said with regard to the Christian Democrats, as with Mr Tugendhat. Jens Rohde in the lead very clearly indicated that there was a willingness to cooperate, and even praised the government for being both boring and visionary at the same time. This is something we try to be and continue to work on, and with you we may even be able to develop it further. Then there were also the government's support parties, and I would also like to thank you there, on the one hand, for the excellent cooperation we have in general, but also for the constructive approach to the Finance Act and, on the other hand, for coming forward with the negotiations on the reforms. I also hear what is being said on the Enhedslisten side. The Enhedslisten is very opposed to what we do in relation to graduation rates, and also other elements, but I hear from Enhedslisten's Mr. Rune Lund has no desire not to be a part of the negotiations. You have a constructive approach, but you have of course also clearly marked where it is that you see the pieces standing on the board. And there's no reason to pretend it's just pink compared to negotiation there. However, I would like to say to the Enhedslisten that I hope that, like many other debates, we can find common paths in the usual good and constructive way. In relation to the SF, the same applies to both the Finance Act and also the reform trail. I hear a strong focus both on welfare and on climate, and that is something that the government is also concerned with, and where we have been able to make important decisions for the benefit of Denmark together with both the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten and, for that matter, the alternative in many contexts. So I look forward to it. Whether it gets boring or not, time must show, but I think that together we can do something really good for the benefit of Denmark. The same goes, of course, for the Radical Left, who would like the government to be even more ambitious than what we have put forward. And it's only good that you want to be ambitious and I always welcome that. And basically, what the government has made of both the budget law and what we want to do with the reforms has also been taken very well and well. So all in all, I think it looks good. I would also like to say to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam that I look forward to having some good negotiations with Greenland again this year. I think that together we have managed to give a boost to some very important areas of the two previous financial laws. And I would also like to sign for the good cooperation and also for the very nice words that were said the other way. The same is true of Mr. Edmund Joensen and Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. It is very important that, in relation to the Faroe Islands too, we have been able to find initiatives which have helped to strengthen both the development of the Faroe Islands, but also the joint cooperation and this also applies to Greenland within the Kingdom Community. And that is something that the government welcomes very much. And I can say that although this year's negotiating reserve is smaller than it was last year, I expect that the agreements the government can make with both our Greenlandic and our Faroese MPs will be at the same level as last year. But that must depend entirely on the debate we are now taking with each other. But it is just to signal that it will be the government's starting point. In other words, I think it is historic that we have a budget debate that ends as early as it does everything else, unless someone demands another round, and then I shall not stand in the way of it, and now I must be careful that I do not incite anyone to such a deed if they had not planned it. But what I have actually sensed throughout the day, if you just leave the rhetoric as it should now be, and the markings that must of course be there are a common will to rejoice that things are going really, really well in Denmark with the economy right now. And yes, as Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen rightly said this, I said recently that I was actually surprised that things had gone so well. And I have to say that I think many have been made not because we did not think that we made any really important decisions, and not because we have not had confidence that both Danish employees and employers and our companies would do it excellently, but because we have come back so quickly and with such a force in relation to the Danish economy. I certainly would not have dared to hope so when I stood on this platform a year ago and presented the Finance Act at that time. I can also say that I sense this joy of a very great willingness now to translate into further action, not only in a financial law context, but also in relation to the reforms that Denmark needs. Because Denmark can do more, and that's what we've called it. We have even called it Denmark can do more, and in that there is also the fact that we are now launching the first reforms, and we would also like to come back with further action. So greater ambition for Denmark is a common task. We have taken that on board, and I hear that the Folketing is ready to take care of it. We are very much looking forward to working together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909163549	Thank you. This gave rise to a series of brief comments. The first one's for sir. Troels Lund Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909163556	Thank you for that and thank you for your kind remarks. Today's headline in the Stock Exchange was also an expression of Jutland's sense of humor, which I know the Minister of Finance sometimes understands. I'm sorry if he misunderstood today. Minister of Finance No, no, not at all). Now I have the floor, Minister of Finance, so you'll have to wait to comment. But it was actually kindly meant. We are also looking forward to the political negotiations that are coming, although we may not be traditionally part of the parliamentary basis of the government in terms of the narrower financial law. But a lot of exciting things can happen, I don't want to anticipate that. What I thought I would like to pursue is the financial law trail, because we have heard that next week we will be invited to set meetings if Denmark can do more than that, and we will look forward to that. But what I was thinking, it might be useful just to get a little smarter at • I also asked the Socialist rapporteur and he could not answer, for once it is with the exit centre and why it has not been prioritised by the government's Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909163707	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909163708	It is quite well known that not long ago the government made its proposal on the location of an exit centre. There was no support for this here in the Danish Parliament, which is why the starting point is that it is the existing exit centre that continues. That is why we have not taken any further initiatives in this Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909163736	Here you go, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909163738	I didn't quite understand that answer. I guess you still have the promise that you have to live up to, that you have given the Danes that you want an exit centre, and then it was natural that you set aside a reserve for it when you couldn't get to the end of it at Langeland. I also assume that the buildings on Langeland will be sold. But I may have misunderstood.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909163759	Here you go, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909163800	Well, the government has presented its proposal for a better solution than the one at present. There was no support for this in the Folketing. We are a minority government, and that requires 90 mandates. Unfortunately, there were not enough people who thought that what we had put forward was the right solution, and that is why the matter lies as it does, and it also lies with the Minister for Integration, who continues to have dialogue with the parliamentary parties on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909163834	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909163837	Thank you. I would also like to start by thanking the Minister for Finance for his fine words about my rapporteur's speech. However, what I would like to ask concerns, as I also praised, the fact that more money has been spent on welfare. They get into that very large machine that is out in the municipalities, and now the government is also talking about a welfare law, which also sounds quite positive. But what we would like to ask is what the Social Democrats really are doing, and I think that, if they really do get into it, they are also in agreement about what the money is being spent on; that is also important. Let me take as an example one of the major cases that KL is working on that one of the major cases that the municipalities are working on, namely the Divisions Association. Why do they do that? It is because if you have a team that comes into the super league, you have to build a superliga stadium that may cost 100 million. kr. This is a major problem for the municipalities, because then they have to do it. But is it really welfare to build a superliga stadium for a limited company playing football? Yeah, apparently it is. At least KL spends a lot of effort on it. I just think it is important that we also remember to say when more money comes out for welfare. They get over the block... that it also applies to young people, that it applies to the elderly and to the children, i.e. to the core welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909163943	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909163944	I would say that superliga football is something that can provide great quality of life and sometimes also grief, and I can say that with a heart that beats so much for AGF, so that there are both joys and sorrows when dealing with superliga football. As far as the question is concerned, I very much agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. René Christensen in that it is not only a question of how much money comes out to the municipalities, but also of how they are spent. But by having made the agreements we have, where we actually make sure that when more children and older people come out in our municipalities and we should be happy about that, it is nice that there is also some money, so I also think that we are laying a bottom that the municipalities can then build on. But it is they who have to make the sensible decisions, and Mr. René Christensen as well as I do. I have a history as mayor, and I think that Mr. René Christensen is still a councilman. It is a local responsibility to make sure that money is spent wisely.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909164101	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909164103	We in the Danish People's Party agree with that. But let me just take a single number... a number that is actually a little scary: when we look at the 9th grade graduations, there is actually 16%. of those who leave the 9th grade in Denmark when looking all over the country who do not have 02 in Danish and 02 in mathematics. This means that they cannot embark on an upper secondary education after elementary school has been completed. These are the things we have to work with about the supply of work and so on. etc. After all, we need a qualified job offer, and there it could just be exciting if we from in here, without laying down a very tight framework, say to the municipalities anyway: When you get a better framework, you also have to deliver some results, for example in the primary school area.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909164139	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909164141	I very much agree that one of the biggest challenges we face is that there are too many children and young people in our primary school who, when they finish it, have not got the skills they need, i.e. who cannot read well enough, who cannot count well enough. This is one of the greatest challenges we face, and I therefore hope that the initiatives we have to take in relation to education and primary school will also help to remedy this. By the way, I'm glad to hear that Mr. René Christensen, earlier in his first question, also welcomed the government's presentation of a welfare law. We look forward to negotiating this with, among other things. Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909164225	Thank you. The next speaker is Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909164228	Thank you, and thank you for the greetings from the Minister for Finance. It was really a boring Finance Act, but now we have also heard from the Prime Minister that it should not be lustful to go to work. It takes the Minister of Finance literally. Oh, kidding aside. You can be financially responsible in a number of ways. One is, of course, about keeping up with the costs. The second is to turn up the revenue. I hope the Minister of Finance agrees with that. Economics means keeping a house with its resources, and when we have put a lot of focus on climate today, it is because we do not keep a house with our natural resources. If everyone consumed like the Danes, it would take four more planets. And the Climate Council has just been criticizing the government for not having illustrated how to achieve the 70-percent target. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: is the most important problem right now the lack of labour? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909164342	Thank you. Here you go, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909164344	But the good thing about being a government is that you get the opportunity to try to solve more than one problem at a time. It is if we look at the Danish economy, perhaps the biggest challenge it is the biggest challenge right now that things are going so well that there are a lot of our companies that need more labour than they can get right now. It is basically a much better place to stand than if we had thought a year ago that where we would be standing today, we would be discussing how to deal with exploded unemployment. That is not the case, in other words. We have been very successful in Denmark in making sure that the Danish business community gets through the crisis. Some people are still having a hard time. This does not mean that, at the same time, we should not also deal with the crisis we have in relation to our climate. That's why we have a climate bill. That is why we have made a number of agreements, among others. with SF, and we still have to move on, among other things. on agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909164455	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909164456	When I ask, it is just because the Prime Minister at the Danish Business Annual Meeting said that more important than green conversion, more important than research, more important than everything else, was the lack of labour. And I hear a little the Minister of Finance say today that this is actually a positive problem, because things are going so well. That is why I do not really understand the emphasis on talking it out as if we are some country in crisis. I've told the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister that I think they should raise their backs. We, and the government in particular, have done very, very well, and that is why I do not think this is the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909164539	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909164541	I take the rose to myself on behalf of the government, and we are very much standing our backs, but the fact that you raise your back does not mean that you have to lie on the low side. We think more initiatives are needed so that things can go even better in Denmark. That is actually what it is all about, so we can look each other in the eye and say: Denmark can do more; and we can get more people into work; we can get more money for the green transition; we can get more money for education, so that we get a stronger Denmark, a stronger welfare society, a more green Denmark. That is what the vision is, and I really hope that SF will help, and I am convinced that SF will help.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909164626	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909164630	It is rare to meet a man who is so happy to be called boring, but I understand that is the general picture here. What I want to ask refers to some of what the Prime Minister said about young people and new citizens in this country who, I understand, had to pull themselves together and find a job, even if they do not want to. I think that is an interesting new approach from the Social Democratic Party, because I remember at least something about shortening a period of unemployment benefit, where the Social Democratic Party was somewhere else in relation to the question that at some point you would have to find a job. I think that this logic obviously only applies to young people and to new citizens and not to young people, for example. older citizens, for whom it has been decided to set up an early retirement scheme for healthy people, instead of telling them that they have to work. That is why I want to know whether it is possible, in these negotiations with the Government's spectacles, to look at some of the many arrangements that are now in place, because it could be that there were also some people in the 1950s and 1960s who could also take on a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909164744	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909164746	I am incredibly pleased that we have been able to present a Finance Act which is both a timely and a great sense of responsibility, and I have said that if you want to call it boring then I live with it. Even if that is the case with the Minister of Finance himself, I'll have to see if I can talk my way out of it. In relation to the question of whether Danes too, even when they have grown up a little over the years, can contribute to more people entering the labour market or to a few more hours, I would say that part of what we are proposing here is to give up the set-off, so that as a pensioner you need not be afraid that it will damage your family's economy if someone else in the household receives a higher income from work. That will then be some of the things that will mean that there will be people who will stay longer in the labour market than they would otherwise be. So that is a very concrete example of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909164856	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909164857	And we think this initiative is not boring, but good. We have also said in the past that one could also look at set-off in one's own national pension, not just the spouse's. In concrete terms, however, I would like to ask you about this senior job scheme, which is one of the many schemes that are now in existence and which could be abolished and both put some money in hand and put some people into the economy. Was it something the government could be looking at in these negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909164927	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909164928	This is not something the government has put forward as our proposal, because we do not have any plans to abolish that scheme, and we are also very proud of the arrangement we have made around Arne, which means that people who have been very long on the labour market and had some of the hardest jobs can come out a little earlier and have a life where they can be with their grandchildren and have a life that is better connected, without being worn down to the sock holders. I understand that the Radical Left still thought it was a bad deal we made there. I can say that the government still stands for it, is proud of it; it is not being changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909165015	The next brief remark comes from Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909165018	It's going much better than we could have thought at the same time last year. We have pursued a policy in which we have invested ourselves out of the crisis instead of saving, as happened after the financial crisis. It has been a great success and we are standing somewhere else now than we did last year. There is no need for aid packages to the same extent, but we still need to invest away in the recovery of our welfare after many years of deterioration, and we need to invest in the green transition because climate change needs to be combated and we are incredibly busy. This will, of course, contribute to more economic activity, and although we are not in a situation where there is a general overheating on the way, I think all economists agree on that, we must of course look at the fact that it must not get out of hand, but fortunately we also have some opportunities to take air out of the economy in a socially responsible way. We can do this by rolling back tax reliefs, which have been granted to the richest over many years, which were agreed on tax incentives, which will cost 22 billion each year. kr., and it was agreed between 2015 and 2019 and we can abolish the housing job scheme. Could we not abolish something of this kind to spend the money on climate and welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909165128	Thank you. Here you go, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909165129	First of all, it is important to say that we have made a number of initiatives, and fortunately the Enhedslisten has been involved in many of them, in terms of meeting the 70-percent objective in the climate area, and I would like to sign for that. And, as I also said, we have agricultural negotiations now, when the next important decisions need to be taken in relation to the climate, and alongside that we also have a financial bill trail where there is more than a billion. kr., we among others. can use for the climate. So this is something that is so much on government radar, and it's a joint task. In relation to the housing job scheme, we gave it extra gas together last year and about doubled the deduction of the housing job scheme, because it was needed at that time to boost Danish economy. Now we are in a completely different place, and that is why we are also proposing that we turn the housing job scheme down to half of what we agreed last year.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909165234	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909165236	I have to say that I cannot take credit for the housing job scheme having a boost with the 2021 Finance Act. On the contrary, I and Enhedslisten did everything possible to combat that increase, so the credit goes to some others in that case, Minister of Finance. But, of course, we need more money to restore welfare and to restore the green environment. Was it not an idea to look at some of the many tax rebates that have been given, also to the richest, so that we also get something done about the growing inequality that has been and that we get enough money for the green transition and for welfare? Isn't that the way we have to go now?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909165311	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909165312	I had almost said that the honour should be honored, and also with a reverse sign. I do not claim that it was Enhedslisten who pushed through the increase in the housing job scheme. That would be wrong to say. I think that what we have put forward on the path of reform also offers an opportunity to step up efforts in relation to the climate by 1 billion. kr. There. We have financial law negotiations with 1.2 billion. kr., we among others. can use the climate, and we have negotiations on agriculture in progress. So we are at full speed, and we must have that too, and I very much hope that in the negotiations that are coming we can have some important decisions taken in relation to our climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909165353	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909165358	Thank you. I would like to ask about the Government's proposal to increase the tax on equity returns and dividends. We in Denmark have the third highest tax on equity returns in the OECD, and this has resulted in very few public limited companies starting in Denmark. During the period 2015 to 2019 only 25 so-called micro-enterprises went on the stock exchange in Denmark and 409 micro-enterprises went on the stock exchange in Sweden. It is therefore a huge difference, and that is because Sweden has created a much more attractive climate for starting up public limited companies, and there is the taxation of return on shares, which is absolutely central. When we already miss so much value because even Danish companies choose to be listed in Stockholm instead of in Denmark, how can the government raise the OECD's third highest share tax even more and make that problem even bigger?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909165459	Here you go, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909165500	The government is deeply concerned about ensuring that there are good framework conditions for Danish business, and we have, after all, had a laser focused on keeping our hands under jobs and companies with the whole crisis we have been through. Now we are putting forward a reform proposal where there will also be a number of initiatives for the benefit of Danish business, and then there is an element where we raise taxation, so that if you get a return on your shares of more than this DKK 66.000, you have to pay 45%. instead of 42 per cent. We think this is quite right and reasonable, and it helps us to make the reforms that are needed in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909165554	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909165557	I asked why this is being done, and it is not enough just to say that the government thinks it is fair when we miss out on so many companies in Denmark. It is, of course, quite open-minded to make us poorer when you raise the share tax. It costs money, it costs jobs, and we miss out on many good companies that could be listed in Denmark instead of looking for Sweden. Why does the government want to make us poorer?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909165628	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909165629	The government will certainly not make us poorer. On the contrary, we are faced with a situation in which, as Finance Minister, I can put forward a financial law at a time when employment has never been higher, where, it has to be said, there is a very, very good track of the economy and where, for the most part, the Danish economy is roaring out of it, and that is a good thing. We want to continue this development, and we propose to strengthen Danish industry, among other things. by making the R&D deduction permanent. And then there's a part of what we're putting forward, where you as a citizen, if you have some very big gains on shares, you have to pay a little more in taxes than you have had to pay so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909165717	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909165721	Thank you. The reason why the Minister for Finance could not mention anything concrete about what we said to the reform is that we have discussed Finance Law today. I know that many would like to discuss it. I also think I can answer Rasmus Jarlov's question about why the government put this in. That's because we've spent 3 days picking it out again, so thumbs up, it's pretty smart done. But I would just like to say that there are three points that we also think are good. It is the electricity tax that you want to lower, it is the graduation rate and then the set-aside rate so there are also points that we think are good. What I would like to ask is that I am a little worried about this reform. Now reform 1.0 comes after all, and it's going to run this job offer to zero. So we're back at the starting point. It does not solve the challenges that we have in business now, which require more labour out there. I'm a little worried about what it is about when this is reform 1.0, there's a performance reform that comes later. At least it has to be balanced so that we do not pull anyone out, because that is what the understanding paper says. So how are you going to make that performance reform, probably with the left? Then we must be more ambitious than we have been so far at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909165829	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909165830	I'm not gonna take away from sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, that he concentrated on the Finance Act, and thank you for that. But also thank you for the comments on what you think is good in what we have made in relation to Denmark can more I. We have put forward proposals which will increase long-term employment by approx. 10,500 people. This is actually quite an important step, and it has to be seen in the context of the fact that, fortunately, in the coming years in Denmark, we will see that there will be more sustainable employment. Towards 2025, we will have an increase of approx. Seventy thousand. That's a lot of people, and that's good, because that's what we need. This year alone and next year it is approx. 33,000 more together, we're talking about. Then it is true that we also have to negotiate services and other things, but the government takes one thing at a time, and right now it is finance law, and then we have this lead, and then the Minister of Employment will invite to the other at the right time and place.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909165942	Thank you. Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909165943	That is fair enough, and employment is structural, it is pension, unemployment benefit and everything else. That's fair enough. We do not need to take that discussion. What I am interested in is: what is the level of ambition for these reforms? Because if we come out with something that gives 10,500 more jobs, I'm very, very worried that it's not enough. That is the concern we have. And when we enter the negotiating room, we know now that there will be reform 2.0 and 3.0, but if we do not know anything about what they contain, it is difficult to set the level of ambition for reform 1.0. I hope that makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909170020	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909170021	I think it did if I understood it correctly. We have put forward reforms that give 10,500 more jobs. It's actually quite nice. At the same time as this work is being carried out under the leadership of Professor Nina Smith in what is called the Reform Commission, which will also make a number of proposals on how to renew and improve our welfare society, and I believe that there will also be some gains in terms of sustainable employment. So we don't see the 10,500 as a number we stop with. We look forward to what other parties may have of ideas and what, moreover, may come from Professor Nina Smith, and what will come from the next government initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909170120	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909170121	The government's proposal for a finance bill is a boring bureaucrat finance bill. Everyone agrees on that, even the Minister of Finance. And that is an expression of the fact that it is the lowest common denominator that the government can find with its support parties in a financial law context. When the government has to conduct economic policy with its support parties, it is little more than continuing the rams of last year. As soon as the government gets a little more ambition, however, to raise the labour supply by the 10,000 that have been removed, then it has to reach broad negotiations where it cannot be done with its support parties. Enhedslisten will not be in, the alternative will not be in, SF may not be in either. Then it is the blue parties that have to help. Is it not a declaration of failure for the red majority in this Parliament that in the big discussions about Danish economy you can't do anything at all? There you simply have to have assistance from the blue parties in the Folketing in order to get something done.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909170225	Here you go, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909170226	First of all, as Finance Minister, I am happy to be part of a government that can cooperate with the whole parliament. That is what we are proposing, both when it comes to the Finance Act and when it comes to our initiatives in Denmark, more can be done. So I'm a little puzzled that sir. Ole Birk Olesen here on this beautiful afternoon concludes that there are some parties that are not in advance in either agreement or agreement. We invite everyone to share in taking responsibility. Whoever ends up with us when we finish, time will have to show. But what I've been hearing all day, and I'm actually gonna believe that, sir. Ole Birk Olesen has heard, are parties that, each with their own nuances, with their own priorities, say that they are ready to take responsibility. I welcome that. I think that's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909170326	Here you go, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909170328	The biggest contribution to the government's ambition to close the gap from Arnepensionen is to cut a little on the graduating rate. There we have heard here today that unless the Minister of Finance has sat and held his hands to his ears, while it happened that Mr. Rune Lund of Enhedslisten has said: Enhedslisten will never add any votes. And that is the biggest contribution to the government's already rather amputated reform ideas about Danish society. And Enhedslisten won't be a part of that. So we have to conclude that when the government wants something for Danish society on the economic side, it cannot happen with the government's support parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909170408	Here you go, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909170408-2	I heard very well the reservations made by Enhedslisten in relation to the graduation proposal. But I also heard a Unity List saying: we are coming to the negotiations. As Finance Minister, I will negotiate with my ministerial colleagues with the entire Danish Parliament. Instead of trying to see if we can get some others out of the negotiations, should we not concentrate on keeping our own party inside them? I hope, then, that the Liberal Alliance will have a constructive approach when we see it in the Ministry of Finance next week.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909170443	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909170445	Thank you. I see the government's employment policy as wanting people on their feet, making it possible for people to contribute to the community that they want people to enter the labour market. This is how we feel in the Alternative, so our goal is exactly the same. Often, however, the methods are different, where we believe more in trust. We think you can win a lot by letting people choose for themselves, by helping them, by qualifying them, by meeting them where they are, and by trying in every way to solve the challenges that make them unable to contribute to the community. Will the Minister of Finance allow us to perhaps make attempts to examine whether there are some in the groups of unemployed people who might be more likely to get into work more easily, to get on their feet and to get into the community more easily by means of trust-based projects instead of more forced projects?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909170542	Here you go, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909170544	The government has determined the same ambition to show people confidence; it is also an important part of entering the labour market. I also think it has to be said that an important part of this is also that we sometimes make demands and that right and duty go hand in hand. There you just have to say that whatever opinions you may have about what the world should look like, it doesn't look good enough today. I mean, there are 45,000 young people without work or education. There are still very, very many non-western immigrants who are outside the labour market, especially many women. We've been talking about this for so many years. Now we have to take action, and that is also why we are making our proposal on the 37 hours of work obligations to take new initiatives that can help get people into the labour market, because we need it as a society, and that is also good for the individual.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909170654	Thank you. Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909170656	I agree with much of it. Well, we have the world's most expensive employment system, probably, and it's been scolded, I don't know how long I can remember almost. However, there have been many attempts, for example. in Kalundborg, where the 100 most vulnerable unemployed were in a situation where they were exempted from duty. 60% of them came into activation against 30%. at national level. We have seen good experiments from Finland which show that people actually find marginally more work when they exclude people from coercion. We also have an example from the United States. Could it not be an idea to try to see if there are some places in Denmark where we can, with confidence, get people into work more than under compulsion?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909170737	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909170738	Well, I'm thinking that there's a lot of excellent experiments going on around here, and of course you have to look at the results of that. It just doesn't change the fact that we are in a situation where Danish companies are shouting at labour for many, while at the same time we have a lot of people outside the labour market that we need to get into the labour market. And we just haven't been good enough to solve that so far. That is why we are proposing some new things, among others. The 37-hour part, and we think that is quite sensible and, by the way, a good way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909170826	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909170830	Thank you. Then I will try to dispute it a little bit, because I think that everything that is being said about the job offer I was also talking about it myself is right and the companies are facing a very cash problem, and it will also be a social problem. There was a statement here on TV the other night, and I do not remember the figures, but which showed that there are incredible numbers of people aged plus 55 who are unemployed who are looking for one job after another. They are well educated, have great experience, many also with management experience, and they cannot get a job. For them, this is not at all linked to the fact that companies are screaming for well-qualified labour. Has the government considered what we can do about it in order to remedy that situation, because it is not sustainable?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909170931	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909170932	I very much agree with Mr. Jens Rohde in that there are a lot of people who have come up a little over the years who would like to go out for a job, but where they are still gone, even in the situation we are in now, having too much trouble with it. It is, of course, very much the responsibility of companies to ensure that people who are not 25 years old may also be taken in, but perhaps 55 years old or at the beginning of the 1960s or whatever they may be. This is, I think, some of the things that many companies would have a huge gain out of, because they are some talented, experienced, competent people who would like to spend a few extra hours. That is why I think there is a huge resource there. The government is currently sitting together in tripartite negotiations on how we can get more people into the labour market, and the Minister for Employment was also out yesterday, I think it was to say that one of the things you can look at is whether you should be able to say that applicants should not indicate what age they are, so that no one is said from in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909171046	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909171047	They can be when they get to the interview. So I don't know how much it solves. I am not standing here with the stone of the show or any solution to it either. But now the government has the right to serve, and I hope that, when you have discussions with business organisations, you will also say: Yes, we want to help you, and we want to help to increase the supply of labour, but we also want to help you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909171118	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909171119	There should be no doubt that the government is deeply concerned about getting people with a little years behind into the labour market too. It is true that if they come to a conversation, it may be that it is said: you are too old. But one of the problems today is that skilled people, because they have grown up a little over the years, never come to that conversation. It could also be that, when they were inside the room, it happened that you discovered that there is someone here who actually can a lot and who wants to, and who could be a gain for the company. I therefore believe that we fully share the objective that, at a time when our companies are crying out for labour, companies also need to see that there are some people here who can make such a contribution, and that too many companies today are not good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909171209	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Sjúrður Skaale from JF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909171212	Thank you. It has been an extremely boring afternoon, it has to be said. No one is happy, no one is angry, and everyone agrees that what we do ourselves is infinitely boring. And maybe that's a good thing. Kierkegaard actually writes a great deal about boredom as a state of mind, and out of boredom new ideas, new thoughts can grow, it is a beneficial state of mind, because one gets an insight that one does not otherwise get. The big problem in today's society among young people with all the screen time they have is that they simply lack boredom, because that is what is stressful to them and makes them need help from one kind or another. So it's actually a good thing. A financial bill which is so sensible and so pragmatic that it can bring together a broad majority must surely be boring, otherwise people would split up into different camps. In fact, the Minister for Finance has replied to what I wanted to ask, because I would like to ask whether we can meet again this year, even if I am not in the negotiations, and discuss the possibility of us supporting projects that are common to Denmark and the Faroe Islands. I was given that answer, and I am very pleased about it, because it will certainly not be boring, I can promise.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909171333	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909171334	Thank you. Let me start by saying, as I also said at the outset, that if the fact that we have put forward something so responsible and is an expression of due diligence at a time when things are going so well in Denmark is boring, I must live with it. In fact, I believe that most Danes are most concerned with the fact that the store is in control after we have been through such a turbulent time as we have. In a situation where we have the highest employment ever and the greatest growth in the Danish economy in 15 years, it is no wonder that there is no violent debate in the Chamber. It is not easy to find something to attack a government in such a situation. And then I look forward very much to the negotiations we are going to have, because they are usually constructive as well as with Mr Beazley. Sjúrður Skaale never dull meetings.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909171443	One more line? Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909171446	Thank you for that, and I look forward to it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909171453	I can say that the joy is reciprocated, and I would also like to say that it is important to the government that the negotiations we have with our North Atlantic members take place in the spirit that has been the case, namely as equals, who together find good initiatives that we support, for the benefit of the citizens of Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909171524	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Erling Bonnesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909171527	Thank you. Last year, the government forgot the broadband pool in its financial bill, but with the help of most other parties in the Folketing, it was fortunately ensured that the broadband pool was put in place in last year's Finance Act. And then you'd think that this case was in place and running, because every time that topic is under discussion, everyone says: well, we have to do something more about that, and a pool needs to be set aside to help those places where it is needed. But then we see this year that the government has again forgotten the pot, and it sounds a little bit on the water pipes that it is a tactical game, because then some can come and demand it, and then they can feel like they have got something in place. I think it is simply too serious for that and it is not at all related to the government's other speeches about wanting to do a lot for rural areas. And when I talk to citizens on Langeland, on South Funen and many other places, it can be about home jobs, children's homework or companies that have to report a lot to the government. They're wearing their hair back in the mailbox, and what's to be reckoned with? Well, I think it's too serious. Can the Minister of Finance guarantee that it was a slipper, a hustling and that, of course, it will be ensured that the broadband pool will be dropped off again in the forthcoming Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909171642	Here you go, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909171643	First of all, I would like to say that the government is deeply concerned that we are ensuring a better connection between the country and the city in this country. That is why we have taken a number of initiatives to contribute to this, among others. that we want to move education throughout Denmark; that we have made sure that local police stations come; that we lay out taxes locally. And we will also see initiatives in the field of health. We will soon come up with our country and our city initiatives, and without revealing too much, I think that in this context we will also be able to rejoice in relation to the broadband pool.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909171727	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909171729	I think that was as close to a guarantee as you can get in the Chamber at this time, but I would urge the Minister of Finance to take the final step, because there are a lot of words to be said about coherence and relocation, which, of course, sounds good, but you just need to put it in touch. So, dear Minister, get this plug into the switch now, so we don't need any more gunpowder on it, and so we can get rid of that uncertainty once and for all.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909171756	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909171757	The government is not just using a lot of words we have shown in action that we want to tie country and city better together, and one of the most important things is education, police and health, but it is also that you can be connected up and use your network connection just as quickly in the country as elsewhere. As I said, I believe that Mr. Erling Bonnesen will soon be able to smile even wider than he did a moment ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909171828	The next question is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909171831	Thank you. It can be read that the government's reform proposals give a bnp in 2030 of 10 billion. kr., but at the same time the government has spent a total of 14.25 billion. kr., i.e. in the 2030 figures, since the government stepped in. So can the Minister confirm that this government has made Denmark poorer, and can the Minister perhaps clarify when it has last happened that we have had a government in Denmark that has made Denmark poorer?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909171902	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909171903	I suppose it would be a strange financial bill debate if there were no such questions as: Have you not made Denmark poorer? So, excuse me for a moment, this government has led Denmark during the biggest crisis we have had since the Second World War. What I can tell the Danish Parliament here today is that we have the highest employment ever, we see that debt is so well managed and we see that we have the highest growth in the Danish economy for 15 years. Together with the Danish Parliament, but also very, very much and primarily thanks to the Danish population, including Danish companies and employees, we have managed very well through the crisis. Then we have made an investment in the reform called Arne reform, which means that people who have been in the labour market for a very long time and who have been worn out will have better conditions. It also helps to create security and, moreover, helps to long-term guarantee the whole system we have in this country where we have to work longer. So this is a government that is deeply concerned about making Denmark stronger, richer and greener. That is our project, and that is what we are working towards.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909172027	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909172028	Instead of scolding me, I would very much like the Minister to answer the question. Can the Minister confirm that this government is making Denmark over 4 billion? kr. poorer by 2030?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909172037	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909172038	I can confirm that we have presented a proposal for reforms which, in isolation, contributes 10,500 more to sustainable employment and an improvement in GDP of approx. 10 billion kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909172057	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909172101	I just have to follow it up, so is the story of the Stock Exchange today a falsum? That is the first question, it is quite easy. Of course, if the Minister of Finance thinks it is a falsum, I expect him to raise the matter with the Press Office. Otherwise, it is true that it is a fact, and it would just be nice if the Minister would deal with it. Another thing that has been clear in today's debate is that the government's proposal to make it more difficult to attract capital to companies in Denmark by increasing the share income tax is absolutely not majority in favour. Compared to other Nordic countries, we have a record in capital taxation, and we are in the top international position, and the government believes that we should do so even more. I have not met a single economist who has praised the government's proposal, on the contrary. But now that there is such a clear majority against the government's proposal to tax entrepreneurship harder, will the government take that proposal off the table before negotiations get under way?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909172212	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909172213	First of all, I really hope that the story of the Stock Exchange today is not a falsum, because I was so happy when I saw Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen on the front page of the Stock Exchange say that you were so much in the work clothes, and I have heard that too today. Then there is a story in relation to some bnp calculations, and they are based on the figures that have come from the Ministry of Finance, so I really have no reason to dispute them. What I am just saying is that what we are doing with our proposals is something that improves the Danish economy. We have 10,500 more in employment and improve the economy by approx. 10 billion kr., compared to what it was before we made this call. I think that should be welcomed. And then I think it's important to say that this is our game number one. There's gonna be other games. And that is why I think that, before you get too upset about what something might look like in 20-30, I will say: let us go together in our negotiating rooms and make some good deals, not only this year, but also next year and the following year, and for as long as this government is now allowed to be responsible, that will be our approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909172327	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909172328	Thank you for that concession: the consequence of the government's policy so far and of what the government presented earlier this week is that our structural prosperity is 4 billion. kr. lower than if the government had been sitting on its hands since it took office. It's nice to get it in place. After all, we share with many other parties in here it may be a bit difficult with the government to make Denmark richer, and one of the proposals that the government has put on the table will make Denmark poorer. And since there is a majority against it, the Finance Minister will say today: the proposal for higher share taxation will not be part of the debate, the government has listened to the debate in the Folketing, respects it and takes it off the table?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909172412	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909172413	I just have to say again in all silence to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Torsten Schack Pedersen, that what we have put forward here and which we are debating today is something that provides lasting employment for approx. 10,500, and which also contributes positively with approx. 10 billion kr. You can try to get rid of that with all the rhetoric and newspaper articles in the world, but these are the facts and the government has put forward its proposal for negotiations, and that is, of course, the starting point for the negotiations that we will have, and that applies to all the parliamentary parties, including the Left, when we meet next week.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909172459	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909172503	Thank you. As the Minister for Finance is probably aware, it has been a bit hard years to be an IT rapporteur, because the government has so much slowed down in maintaining our digital leadership, among other things. by rapidly combating the Internet in rural areas and by constantly trying to eliminate the broadband pool. Another thing I find very problematic is that you want to keep cutting down on the Data Protection Agency. They get a two-digit extra number of cases every year, our companies and the organisations that organize the companies are screaming to get better guidance from the Data Protection Agency, yet the government continues to want to save money on the Data Protection Agency. I would like to hear from the Minister why he thinks it can be linked also at a time when there are increasing threats to our children online that you can cut the supervisory means to oversee our all-out data security.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909172601	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909172602	I understand from the rapporteur that it has been a difficult time to be an IT rapporteur. I am a little sorry, because I really think so much has happened on the IT front. If there is something we have experienced during the corona crisis, it is of course how the digitalisation of Danish society has been tested on a full scale and how much potential there is in it. And we have also asked a number of wise people with Mærskforsk Jim Snabe in the lead to make a number of recommendations on how we can be even better in the field of digitalisation. I would just like to remind the Left's IT rapporteur that Denmark has actually been proclaimed on several occasions by the United Nations as the world's best country in terms of public digitalisation. We're not gonna use that as a sleeping pillow. We're gonna use that as a springboard. And then it is true that, in general terms, in relation to agencies and other bodies, we see the need for equal efficiency, and this also applies to the Data Protection Agency. But if there is a desire in the negotiations that are coming to increase the appropriations for the Data Protection Agency, among the parties negotiating the Finance Act, then I am certainly open to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909172722	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909172723	I am glad of that, but I just do not think that the government's words about digitalisation and the concern about all that, for example, our children. experiences on the Internet, and what our companies are bothering about when it comes to cybersecurity and other things is related to continuing with these savings. But I really appreciate the invitation. In this context, I would like to hear whether we in the Folketing are being widely invited to these debates on the new digitalisation strategy for which I would like to commend the government, because it is better late than never that we get started with this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909172759	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909172800	Thank you. I welcome the positive approach that has been adopted here in the second round by the rapporteur, because I really think that we have had good cooperation on these matters. Now our people must have the opportunity, with Jim Snabe in the lead, to make their recommendations, and I expect that to happen here soon. We will then have to assess what the best political process is in this regard. It may be that something can be handled in the context of the Finance Act, and it may also be that we wait until afterwards. We are taking one step at a time, but I note that the Left would like to be involved in the work, and I would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909172844	Then that's the end of the question, and then it's mr. Stén Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909172848	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for answering a great many different questions. I'll just come back to these 45,000 young people who don't have a job or an education. I understand that the Minister also believes that something should be done. There is a large number of people who think that something should happen here, and so do we. I was at a fucking fucking conference last night. Fgu is the training we have done together a couple of years ago, which came from production schools, vuc and the various initiatives of the municipalities. The Minister's own rapporteur says at the conference that there is no need to invent the deep plate, because it exists right on that surface. Well, fucking could be a solution, maybe not for all of them, but at least for some of these 45,000 young people. Will the Minister not confirm this and say that it is actually also part of the solution to some of the challenge we are looking at here?
ParlaMint-DK_20210909172952	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909172953	I think there are a lot of different things we need to do to get these 45,000 young people either in education or in work, and fucking one tool. I also believe that we need to look at our primary school and how we can make it a little less academic and a little more practical for those who need it. I think there are a lot of our school students and perhaps not least many boys running mad in it along the way, not because they don't have the skills, but because the way we've arranged our school doesn't give them the best opportunities to use those abilities. So, if the Social Democrat rapporteur has had time to say something, and I think it was a very funny quote with the deep saucer, and that it was right on that surface, I shall in no way challenge it, but I think there are many different things we need to do to help these young people into work and education.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909173102	Sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909173103	Thank you. I can only take credit for the last part in relation to the fact that it was on that flat. But he actually said that there is no reason to invent the deep plate. Because it's here, and fucking part of the solution. I agree with the Minister on this point. In other words, fucking is also a focal point in the municipalities, and what we heard at the conference is that the municipalities, what to say, can take responsibility more on themselves. We were all agreed on this, and that is why I would like to hear from the Minister, in relation to what the government, perhaps not the minister, intends to do, in relation to the fact that the municipalities also get into gear and use fgu, which is a great tool in relation to this part.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909173145	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909173146	Well this is a joint responsibility: it is the responsibility of the government, it is the responsibility of the Folketing, it is the responsibility of the municipalities, it is our educational institutions and the responsibility of the business community. And that is also the responsibility of each young person and family. I really don't think you can say that someone can handle everything. I believe that when you have such a great task as we have with 45 000 young people who, for one reason or another, are neither in jobs nor in education, it requires an entire society, a whole community that goes in and helps to carry out that task. And that's what the government wants to do. And that is what we want to do in relation to the fuss, but also in many other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909173230	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. There are no more brief comments and no one has expressed a wish for the second round. That concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909173245	The debate is open. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20210909173308	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 5 October 2021 at 6 pm. 12.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
