ParlaMint-DK_20211217100006	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Leif Lahn Jensen (S), Karsten Lauritzen (V), Peter Skaarup (DF), Karsten Hønge (SF), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Peder Hvelplund (EL), Mai Mercado (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Ole Birk Olesen (LA), Susanne Zimmer (FG), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Jens Roh (KD), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA) and Lars Løkke Rasmussen (UFG): Motion no. B 59 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on Freya's Law on Puppy Sales Act (Citizen's Proposal). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20211217100036	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. It's sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go. Today we use the despriting of the platform after the individual speeches. I say this as a general observation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217100143	Yes, of course! Thank you, President. This motion for a resolution intends to secure the consent of the Danish Parliament before Denmark joins the amendments to the regulation on the Visa Information System. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration has considered that the amendments to the regulation require adaptations to Danish legislation. The amendments to the regulation will need to include data on long-term visas and residence permits in the visa information system in the future. In addition, automated search from the Visa Information System in other EU countries' databases will be possible. As the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration states, the purpose of the amendments to the regulation is, firstly, to facilitate the procedure for issuing visas, secondly, to strengthen external border controls and, thirdly, to strengthen internal security by facilitating the sharing of information between Member States on long-term visas and residence permits. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe it is important for Denmark to support EU cooperation, particularly in relation to new legislation from the European Union, which strengthens the control of external borders and people from third countries coming to Europe for a shorter or longer period. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217100253	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Anne Rasmussen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217100312	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by saying that the Left supports European cooperation. We believe it is important for the Member States of the European Union to help and share knowledge with each other. This is among other things. the knowledge sharing that makes us in the community more equipped to face global challenges. The motion for a resolution contributes to this. In Denmark, the visa regulation already applies. However, it is considered that the amendments to the Visa Regulation introduced by that Regulation require certain adaptations to Danish legislation. In addition, the purpose and scope of the visa regime are further extended. We support that in the Left. The overall objective of the amendment is to facilitate the visa issue procedure, to strengthen external border controls on the territory of the Member States, and to strengthen internal security by facilitating the sharing of information between Member States on long-term visas and residence permits. Given Denmark's legal reservation, Denmark did not participate in the adoption of the regulation by the Council, but since the amending regulation concerns the development of the Schengen acquis, we have to decide whether we want to implement it in Danish law. We in the Left believe that we should support this amending regulation because we are currently living at a time when information sharing is a prerequisite for security. It is important that we know who is coming into the European Union and with the change we will improve internal security in the Schengen area by facilitating the exchange of information between Member States and third-country nationals with a long-stay visa than a residence permit. All in all, we believe that the changes are positive and adjust in some areas where they are needed. With these words, I can inform you that the Left will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217100457	Thank you very much. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217100516	As I understand the Minister's motion for a resolution, it is that the rules on visas should be updated so that data on long-term visas and residence permits can also be entered into the Visa Information System. At the same time, the rules are amended so that it is possible to automatically search other EU databases for the purpose of checking visa applicants, which strengthen external border controls and the territories of EU countries. I see no immediate problem in Denmark's agreement to the amending regulation.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217100552	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217100612	Thank you. Here's the brandy and everything. With the adoption of the motion for a resolution here today, the Folketing agrees that the government informs the EU that we have decided to transpose the amending regulation to the VIS regulation into Danish law. It is both sensible and necessary that a decision not to accede to the amending regulation in the extreme might mean that Denmark would have to leave Schengen as a whole. We think that in the SF would be a really bad idea. On the basis of this, we are in favour of the amendments to the Visa Information System proposed by the amending regulation, which include, among other things, the following. facilitate procedures for issuing Schengen visas, strengthen checks at external borders and on the territory of the Member States and strengthen internal security through simpler sharing of information on long-term visas and residence permits through the Schengen countries. The amending regulation now provides for procedures for the exchange of information between Member States on long-stay visas and residence permits. This is positive, because this kind of information cannot be handled by the European Union's systems as it is today. A new provision is also introduced to the VIS Regulation to store a copy of the biographical page of the applicant's passport or travel document in support of return procedures. It is also a step forward, given that the Member States today do not have a uniform practice for storing or exchanging such information, and in some cases the absence of valid travel documents slows the return of third-country nationals who no longer fulfil the conditions for legal residence in the Schengen area. With those words, I can inform you that the SF supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217100750	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kathrine Olldag from the Radical Left and then we have to wait for the spriting to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217100812	Thank you very much, President. It will also be a short round here on the part of the Radical Left. Of course, we also support the proposal. And I cannot help noticing, as the SF rapporteur also well explained, that an alternative to this would, of course, be a possible exit from the Schengen system. Apart from that, we would not necessarily have to adopt this resolution if it were the case that we did not actually have the reservations that we have. So, as a radical, of course, I have to strike a blow to once again consider whether we should retain these reservations or whether we might be ready to take the step fully into full European cooperation. With that said, it is, of course, very good that we can choose on and off and that we have the opportunity to endorse a regulation despite the reservations. So the Radical Left votes in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217100908	Thank you very much. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217100920	Thank you, President. It is good to see how quickly and efficiently the Folketing can work whenever we want to. Our Danish support for the EU's new, strengthened visa system will, as I understand it, be given back in the Council in May. Now it then requires an adaptation of Danish legislation. We Conservatives think this is a good idea, since it strengthens the sharing of information between the Member States and, of course, also controls on who is staying in the European Union and who is travelling in and out of the European Union. Conservatives back up.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217100952	Thank you very much to the Conservative rapporteur. That did not give rise to any comments. The next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217101009	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the rapporteurs for receiving the motion for a resolution. I note that there seems to be broad support for the resolution. It is, of course, a proposal aimed at obtaining the consent of the Danish Parliament that the government, on behalf of Denmark, subscribes to the EU regulation, which concerns the reform of the visa information system. The Regulation mainly contains amendments to the regulation known as the VIS Regulation, which lays down rules on the visa information system used by European countries in the processing of visa applications. The VIS regulation is already in force in Denmark, but some of the amendments introduced by the regulation which Denmark will approve if this resolution is adopted will result in some adaptations to Danish legislation. In addition, the purpose and scope of the Visa Information System are extended. The amendments include, inter alia, that, in the future, in addition to short-stay visas, data on long-term visas and residence permits will need to be entered in the Visa Information System. The amendment also includes rules allowing automated search from the Visa Information System in other EU databases for the purpose of checking applicants. The overall objective of the amendments to the Visa Information System is to facilitate the visa procedure, strengthen checks at external borders and on the territory of the Member States, and strengthen internal security by facilitating the sharing of information between Member States. The government is in favour of those changes. As a result of the Danish reservation, Denmark did not participate in the adoption of the regulation by the Council, to which the motion for a resolution relates, and the regulation is not binding on and does not apply in Denmark. However, this Regulation constitutes a development of the Schengen acquis and Denmark may therefore, pursuant to Article 4 of the Protocol on the position of Denmark within 6 months of its adoption, decide to transpose it into Danish law on an intergovernmental basis. If the resolution is adopted, the government will therefore inform the Council that Denmark will transpose the regulation into Danish law.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217101208	Thank you very much to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217101223	This resolution has emerged from a citizens' proposal. The debate has been opened, and first we give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, who could reasonably have failed to defuse the platform after the last performance up here, rather than once too little. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217101300	Thank you to the President-in-Office for the floor. With the proposal we are debating today, the government is required to put forward a legislative proposal ensuring that the criteria for inclusion are the same for refugees with UN Convention status, refugees with protection status and refugees with temporary protection status. For the latter group, these are persons who have been granted a residence permit in the light of the general conditions prevailing in the country of origin. The authors of the citizens' proposal want it to be the refugee convention's demand for so-called fundamental, stable and lasting changes to apply to all three groups. In addition, the authors of the citizens' proposal want to see the inclusion and refusal of extension only to the extent that the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR, has full and unhindered access to monitor the return of refugees in accordance with its mandate. I would like to begin by describing the international obligations that apply to our immigration authorities when assessing whether there is still a need for protection and, in this context, focusing on the difference between the rules on inclusion and refusal of extension for refugees covered by the UN Convention on Refugees and the rules on refugees with temporary protection status due to the general situation in the country of origin, where the European Convention on Human Rights is relevant. In the area of asylum, therefore, it is in particular the UN Convention on Refugees and the European Convention on Human Rights that set the legal framework for what we must and can do. That is the framework that determines when we should provide protection, but also when we are no longer obliged to provide such protection. For refugees with convention status this is what is referred to in the Aliens Act as § 7 para. 1 The legal framework is the Refugee Convention, which means that the Danish withdrawal rules are administered in accordance with the refugee convention rules on the cessation of refugee status. This means that the withdrawal of residence permits can only take place if fundamental, stable and lasting changes have taken place. On the other hand, refugees with protection status and temporary protection status are not covered by the UN Convention on Refugees. It is therefore a different legal framework that forms the basis for that group's protection, and thus it is also a different framework that applies to the inclusion and refusal of extension. Instead, it is necessary to assess whether, at the time of withdrawal or when renewal is refused, protection is still required in Denmark under Denmark's international obligations, and in particular Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Following the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, general matters will only exceptionally justify protection in themselves. This means that residence permits are granted only in the most extreme cases of general violence, where there is a real risk of abuse in breach of the European Convention on Human Rights. This means, at the same time, that an improvement is the general situation in the home Member State, as appropriate, which means that a decision on involvement can be taken. This is true despite the fact that, despite the improvements, the situation remains serious, fragile and unpredictable as long as the improvements are not of a temporary nature. This is evident from a fairly clear practice by the European Court of Human Rights. In the Danish Parliament, we have, as you know, chosen in the Aliens Act that these are the criteria on which our immigration authorities must work. In Denmark, with these criteria, we have gone a little further than other countries, but I still believe that this is entirely within the framework of our international commitments. And then the question is whether we should go beyond what we are obliged to do in the UN Convention on Refugees and the European Convention on Human Rights, and we in the government do not think that we should do so. The rules have just been introduced in recognition of the fact that we do not have the opportunity to give permanent residence to all of us as a society we cannot stand to do so. It is a fundamental principle that protection ceases when protection is no longer needed. It is precisely the question of the individual's need for protection that is at the heart of the immigration authorities' assessment of asylum cases, and I think it should be the same. The temporary protection status is adapted to the need for protection for foreigners who are granted asylum because of a particularly serious situation in their country of origin, but it also means that they should go home when the conditions that made the temporary protection status no longer exist, and we in the government believe that it is essential that we stick to the principle of temporary protection and that it is important and proper for Danish society. The authors of the motion for a resolution also propose that the inclusion and refusal of extension can only take place to the extent that, in accordance with its mandate, the UNHCR has full and unhindered access to monitor the return of refugees. The foreign authorities take their decisions on the basis of a wide range of reports and other background material, including, inter alia: from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, NGOs and the European Asylum Support Office, EASO. Both the Foreigners' Board and the Refugee Board regularly keep their collections of background material up to date. It is the immigration authorities who assess the background information to be included in the assessment of individual cases and the immigration authorities assess the importance of the background information. It is also by the immigration authorities that they assess whether there is at all sufficient background information on a country or a given relationship to be able to take decisions in the specific cases. I leave these assessments to the Danish immigration authorities, and I trust that they will make the right decisions fully in accordance with Danish legislation and Denmark's international obligations. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. I look forward to the further examination of the proposal here in the Folketing, and of course the Ministry is available to answer any questions that may arise. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217101841	Thank you. There are a few brief remarks, first from Mr. Carl Valentin, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217101848	Thank you. After all, many people are in a rather unhappy situation right now, when they are being sent back to Syria and fear very much what kind of conditions they will be faced with and whether they will experience security there. And that is why they may also choose to sit in an exit centre instead, because they are so afraid to go back there that they would rather. I would really like to know whether the Minister considers that people that Denmark is sending to Syria right now can count on them to experience lasting security in Syria as it is now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217101926	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217101928	So, I would like to start by saying that the vast majority of Syrians we have at exit centres are in those centres because they have committed crime and lost their residence permit and have been allowed to stay. It's the largest group. Then there are about 100 Syrians, so far, who have had their residence permit withdrawn or denied it. And then there are between 300 and 400 Syrians who have accepted repatriation aid. In other words, even if they have a residence permit, they have taken a considerable amount of money from the Danish state to go back. So far the greater part that goes back is doing so voluntarily through the repatriation scheme. And what matters to me is that those who have it withdrawn or denied it are not at risk of persecution or torture. Whether they have a lasting, stable and happy life in the long term, I do not know.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102033	Thank you. Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102034	What we are discussing now is the security situation in Syria, and then it is not really so relevant whether people have committed crime or not, or why it is that they have to leave. No matter what, people have to have an assurance that it's a good place for Denmark to send them to. And I think that the Minister emphasizes here that this is not the way to ensure any lasting security, also highlights the problem in the legislation that has been introduced because people are being sent to places where they may be able to temporarily assess that right now it looks okay, but have no idea if it is going to change radically within a few years. And that's a big problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102109	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102111	In other words, the people we are talking about here would not have been protected under the UN Convention on Refugees. The concept of refugees is much narrower. This is because we have the European Convention on Human Rights alongside, which extends the concept of refugees, and some judgments have been passed along the way, which also gives a direction, as to how to understand being persecuted under Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. And for me, it is certainly important that we lean on the understanding of the two conventions as to when we need protection and when we do not have it and that we do not start to invent our own concepts of refugees in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102149	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102152	Thank you for the floor, President. Thank you, Minister. Of course, the government's lack of support for the proposal is not surprising. These are positions we already know. Yesterday, in a conciliation meeting, I tried to get the Minister to deal with the verdict that has fallen against Russia. Now we are trying again: can the Minister confirm that the verdict concludes that there is no place in Syria that is safe to go back to? That will be the first question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102235	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102236	In other words, it is a judgment about some young Russian men of military age who have brought a case against Russia before the European Court of Human Rights and won the case against the Russian state. Those men in Denmark would probably have been given asylum without problems, for the sole reason that they are of military age. However, it is true that, in addition to taking a position on the specific case, the judgment also has some grounds which have some more general considerations. Among other things, it has. led the Refugee Board's coordination committee to say that it is essential to maintain and focus on the general precautionary principle in the area of asylum. It is not the case that, from the judgment of the Refugee Board in general, it can be concluded that all those who come from Syria and seek asylum must have temporary protection status under Paragraph 7 of the Aliens Act. 3. That is not the conclusion of the Refugee Board's coordination committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102330	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102331	But the reason why I am asking this question is that I think it is a political question as well. It is a political question of how to deal with that judgment. It is a political question of how to deal with the Land judgment from Germany, which says that Denmark is now not a safe third country. It is also a political issue. Can the Minister not confirm that it was Mette Frederiksen, as Minister of Justice, who tabled the bill to change this basis for residence permits, so it is a political decision of the government at the time which is the basis for the broadcasts? So that is a politically determined law, and that is why we in the Free Greens say that we now have to deal with it politically and ensure that our Syrian fellow citizens are not sent back to war, destruction and torture.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102414	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102415	There are two questions here. To one, the answer is yes, and to the other, the answer is no. It is true that it is the former Minister of Justice, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, who presented a law that said that those who receive protection under the European Convention on Human Rights must also have assessed their protection needs according to the practice laid down by the European Court of Human Rights in the case of inclusions, denials and extensions. Not as strong a protection as the UN refugees who come here and receive individual protection status under the Convention. That is true; it is a political debate, and that is what we have today with the resolution. I think that is entirely relevant. However, I do not think it is a political decision how we interpret the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights against Russia. There we have the Refugee Board's coordination committee to carry out that assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102502	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102505	It is good to hear that we have a minister who has confidence in the various Danish immigration authorities. But then the next question comes up. Does the Minister also have confidence in the authorities that govern under Assad in Syria?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102529	We do not recognise the regime of Assad as the legitimate government in Syria at all, and that is the whole reason why we have taken the political decision following a joint analysis that we share with our European partners and the United States, namely that we will not legitimise and recognise the Syrian regime by cooperating with them on forced broadcasting. So for us, there are no recognized authorities operating from Damascus at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102600	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102602	I just don't have a word for it. With the answer given here by the Minister, which I think is gratifying, how can we ever, in the name of heaven, get ourselves to send some human beings back to authorities that are not recognized at all? That was the first question. The last question is: is Assad going to a war criminal court? Is that the government's position?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102638	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102639	In relation to the last question, I should like to refer to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. But I think that we have been reasonably clear about those issues on the part of the government. On the first question, I would like to say that what I think is crucial when it comes to the need for protection is that we have a concept of refugees defined in the UN Convention on Refugees and in the case law derived from it and in the European Convention on Human Rights. It's about whether you need protection as a human being. It is not about the quality of the authorities to which you return or whether there are any authorities at all. It is an individual assessment of one's protection needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102713	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102716	Thank you. I think it is a good thing that the Minister says that we are not going to cooperate with Assad and that we do not recognise his regime. Then the film just breaks for me anyway, because when you're not going to do that, it means that the Syrians who have been deprived of their residence permit must sit in exit centers in, we don't know how long. I think this is both inhuman and hollow in my head when I think that they could come out and be part of Danish society, contribute to the Danish labour market, as I know they want to. Can the Minister himself not see that somehow this is quite the opposite? On the one hand, the government says that you want more labour and that you do not want to cooperate with the Assad regime, but on the other hand it is said that it is very important for the government's tight immigration policy that these people sit and excuse me for rotting in an exit center.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102822	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102823	We also have a three-digit Iranian in deployment position, that is to say, people who we have assessed do not need protection to go home, but because of the expulsion difficulties with Iran we are not in a position to send them out in a compulsive manner. They can only leave voluntarily, they can even get a bag of money if they do. If we sit back and say that because we are not in a position to send Iranians on a compulsory basis, they might as well get a general home and a work permit and live in Denmark, I think, firstly, that the whole basis of asylum policy would go, for then people would be able to work against a de facto stay in Denmark, and secondly, that it would mean that many more people from that country would seek asylum in Denmark, because they would know that whether they have a need for protection or not, they would end up being able to stay in Denmark. So for that reason, and also for the sake of the legitimacy of asylum policy, I believe that we must stand firm that asylum is granted if you need it, but if you do not need it, you cannot stay in Denmark unless you can have a different residence basis. If, for example, you're gonna have to... If you have had a job for 24 months, there is also an opportunity to apply for a residence permit in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102930	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217102932	But these people need asylum. That's the whole problem. Syria is not safe. We have both Amnesty's words for this, and we have a judgment from the Court of Human Rights on what we had the opportunity to discuss in a consultation yesterday, and they clearly conclude that it is dangerous for people who have been fleeing Assad to be sent back. Not only the eight people that judgment was about, but generally. That's what the verdict says. Last time I checked, sir. We were both agreed that the human rights conventions should be observed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217103015	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217103016	We must respect the human rights conventions, as must the Danish law on foreigners, and it does not say that it is Amnesty who assesses whether people have a need for protection that says that it is ultimately the Refugee Board that assesses whether they have a need for protection. And the people we are talking about here have, of course, been refused an extension of their residence permit, first in the Foreign Affairs Agency and then in the Refugee Board, which has considered that those people do not have a need for protection. For the Syrians right now it is about 100, and I think we should lean on that rather than a report from an NGO or anyone else. It may be relevant to discuss, but it is not they who make the decision, because then everything ends in hats and spectacles.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217103053	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Kathrine Ollyday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217103056	Thank you. I think this debate really reflects very well how many dead ends there really are for the Syrians who have come to this country, but also for us politicians how difficult it may really be to get rid of this problem and find solutions that work. Because we can also see that sending Syrians home does not work... they end up in exit centers. They then in some cases receive money to return home, which they can obtain only if they have not already been expelled and rejected. Whatever the case, I would like to go into another clue, namely that the old section 26, with the paradigm shift, was more or less decimated, so that it can no longer be done for an Syrian to earn to stay through integration, getting jobs, paying taxes, going to school, participating in civil society. I would like to hear a comment from the Minister on why it is when all these dead ends appear that we cannot end up at least earning it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217103204	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217103206	First of all, I would like to say that protection is earned by the need for protection. Then you can obtain a different residence permit in Denmark if you are going on a study stay or if you have a family reunion or if you get a job in Denmark. But I do not think we should start providing protection to people who do not need protection. Then it is true that we had previously described in section 26 in the Aliens Act a number of criteria which needed to have been so closely linked that, even if you did not need protection, because you had ties, you could stay in Denmark. A link assessment is still being carried out, but instead of looking at the law on foreigners and seeing exactly what is there in relation to work, language and other matters, there is just a reference to the international conventions, where there is an ongoing and dynamic case law that develops, for example. in relation to how long a child must have been in Denmark for having acquired association, and when the formal years are for the children, and it can also be about language, education, work. So it is not the case that there is no more an attachment assessment, but instead of following section 26 of the Aliens Act, you follow what is the practice of international courts at all times.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217103311	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217103313	I am also well aware of this, and this also means that well-integrated people, who are part of the Danish labour market, will be deprived of their residence permit. And I think that in many ways it must go against the general policy of the government that we must get our hands on it. After all, there is a general shortage of labour across all sectors, and in relation to the good old Left Slogan Denmark for those who can and will so why is it that § 26 cannot get back into play for people who can and will? Why can we not find a 2021 or 2022 version of § 26 that can actually help solve some of the structural social problems we have in this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217103355	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217103357	I think I will start by saying in relation to the legal difference between what was stated in paragraph 26 and what is then the practice of the international courts that it is not exactly the same, but that there is not much difference between it. Neither had the paradigm changed that much. I remember calling it a thin cup of tea as rapporteur for foreigners before the elections, because I thought that the importance of the paradigm change was completely oversold. Then I would say that we have, in relation to their employment rate, no solution to the challenges we face in attracting hands. We must provide people with protection because they need it, not because we need labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217103443	The next brief remark is from Mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217103445	Thank you, President. From the conservative side we look at this in roughly the same way as the government does, that is to say, if you get protection in Denmark, of course you have to return to your home country when conditions allow, and that it is the Foreign Affairs Authority that makes the assessments of the different rural areas. So I actually just have two questions for the Minister. Can the Minister not confirm that with the repatriation scheme we have, there are already a great many people from Syria who have had protection in Denmark who voluntarily return to Syria? That was one question. The second question is in relation to where we would like the Minister to do a little more: what is the Minister really going to do to ensure that many of those who no longer have a residence in Denmark voluntarily return to Syria, since we do not have any cooperation with Assad? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217103533	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217103534	It is true that we have a repatriation scheme which, in the old days, could not be used by refugees, but which can now, and it is a little over 100, perhaps more than 150, a year here in the last two to three years that have taken advantage of that system. The Syrians are, in fact, one of the largest groups we have in the repatriation scheme at all. After all, we have a great deal of discussion about the Syrians in the asylum system, and I think that is quite relevant and reasonable and also that all the NGOs that interfere have opinions on this. I also think it is important to say that it is about 100 Syrians who have had their residence permit withdrawn or refused to be definitively extended in the Refugee Board, and it is of course many thousands of Syrians who have come here after the civil war. The most important principle is therefore still gone, after all, that the Syrians who have come here have so far remained here. I also believe that, if you look into the future, it will be the majority of those who end up in Denmark, and it also tells something about, although you are politically really trying to pursue a temporary order of days, that the conventions and the Danish law are nevertheless arranged in a way where it is the small minority that ends up not having a residence permit.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217103647	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217103649	Then there's actually just a call from here. For although the number is small, hopefully it will be a growing number over time that will have to go back to Syria to help rebuild their country when conditions allow. So there is actually just a call to the Minister to perhaps try to look at what they are doing in other countries of Europe, in the Netherlands, Norway and the UK, to see if we can learn anything from there, in relation to whether they may be more successful than we are in sending back those people who are considered no longer in danger.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217103717	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217103717-2	I would very much like to look at other European countries, but I think we should also remember, even though many Syrians came to Austria, Germany and Sweden... they took very many Syrians... that Europe, after all, still has the house by far the smallest number of Syrians who left Syria. Most of them are in Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey. They are millions of people we are talking about. So when we discuss a return to Syria, there is also a European perspective on that. But it is in Syria's absolute neighbouring countries, the vast majority of them are the house, and that is also where the biggest return journey is made.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217103751	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217103754	Thank you very much, and thank you for your speech. I'd like to return to Amnesty International. What impression does the Minister have from saying on the part of Amnesty that it is not safe and secure to return to Syria? Is it really the case, as the Minister said, that if you follow the advice of a large international organisation that spends all its awake hours working exactly on this issue, everything will be in a hat and glasses?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217103826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217103828	On the other day, I received a major petition, in fact right down here in front of the Ministry of Finance, from Amnesty International in particular, and I fully acknowledge their work. However, if we start to move towards the fact that it is no longer independent authorities, but NGOs that have to decide whether people have an individual need for protection, then yes, asylum policy ends in hats and spectacles. I really think so, and that is why, yes, we are of course discussing the resolution, but I can also hear from the rapporteurs that we are also discussing who should actually assess whether other people have a need for protection. Right now we are talking about the Syrians, about which there is a lot of political attention. Who cares about the Somalis, the Afghans, the Iraqis, the Moroccans, the Russians? They also seek asylum in Denmark. And if it is about which NGOs have written the latest report, and it must form the basis for one's need for protection on the basis of a political discussion, then yes, it is hat and spectacles. So I will insist that we adopt legislation in this Chamber and then we have independent authorities to take individual decisions. It is worthy of the rule of law. The other thing that I don't think is worthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217103928	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217103929	Now the Minister is constantly relying on the law and it is not illegal to send these people back. Amnesty International says it's not safe. After all, it is a large organisation that examines things fairly closely. What if it is the case that it is actually legal to send them back, but that it is really, really uncertain and risky for them, as we are told it is: will the Minister still take advantage of the fact that it is legal, even though it is deadly for these people?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217104004	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217104005	The Refugee Board is right over here in Adelgade. It's an ordinary, anonymous building. They make hundreds of decisions every year. Last year 600 people left that building and had been refused a residence permit, i.e. had it withdrawn or not received it in the first place. This year we are up to about 480. Some of them are Syrians, and some of them come from all sorts of other countries around the world. There is little political attention to these. They have been refused even though they themselves felt they needed protection. It's actually pretty violent. There's a person sitting opposite you, 1 m across from you, saying he needs protection, and then we've said no 480 times in Denmark this year. All those decisions hurt in the heart, but the alternative to having an application system where you can get yes or no is that everyone gets yes, and that is de facto open borders. So I believe that we must stick to the system we have, and that also means that it is independent authorities that make the decision, and not NGOs.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217104057	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. No one else has signed up for short remarks. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Aslan Rasmussen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217104119	With this citizens' proposal, it is proposed that all foreigners resident in accordance with Article 7 or Article 8 of the Equalisation Act should be included in the same criterion for the withdrawal of the residence permit. In addition, it is proposed that the withdrawal of residence permits should take place only to the extent that UNHCR can monitor the return of indigenous Syrians. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that indigenous Syrians must, of course, return to Syria when there is no longer a need for protection. It's their duty. For it is absolutely crucial that foreigners who no longer have a legal residence in Denmark go home. Every year we spend a lot of money on housing rejected asylum seekers and other foreigners who are not legally resident. It's $300,000. to have just one rejected asylum seeker accommodated at an exit center in Denmark annually. We are fully confident that our immigration authorities will take concrete decisions. It is important for us to stress that everyone has their cases dealt with individually, and if there is the slightest doubt in these cases, the doubt will always benefit the individual applicant. Finally, we do not believe that there is a basis for amending the current rules of the Aliens Act, as proposed by this citizens' proposal, because it is our clear view that the legislation is working as intended. Social democracy does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217104232	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Anne Rasmussen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217104250	Thank you for the floor. We in the Left believe that we can be aware of our efforts towards Syrian refugees. Overall, we have seen the view that it is quite natural that when we in Denmark help people fleeing war and strife in their country of origin, they must also return to their country of origin when it is considered that it is safe enough for it to be possible. When our authorities assess and recommend that we can start sending some refugees back to some parts of Syria, that is the attitude we support. Let me therefore make it clear that the Left trusts that our authorities are fully able to assess whether the conditions in Syria are safe enough for Syrian refugees to return. We therefore do not believe that we should change the law which makes this possible. In fact, we believe that we are fulfilling our moral responsibility when it comes to the Syrian refugees. We understand that it is hard to refuse residence in Denmark and that you have to return to Syria if you do not want to. But it is now part of the contract that you enter into if you apply for asylum in Denmark. The contract is temporary. And even if you think it's nice to live in Denmark, you can't stay here permanently. Unfortunately it doesn't work that way. Basically, we believe that there is also a moral dimension to giving up your place and going home when you no longer need help so that we can help others who need protection. That is at the heart of our return policy. The Danish welfare state provides many resources for the refugees who come to Denmark. We make sure that they feel safe and get some tools that they can use when they return to their homeland. That is why Syrian refugees have a moral responsibility towards their country of origin. They need precisely the tools they have acquired in Denmark to go back and build up their homeland. I would like to conclude by saying that we have full confidence in the Danish immigration authorities and will continue to support their assessments. With these words, I can inform you that the Left will vote against the motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217104444	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217104448	Mrs Rasmussen points out several times that the Left has confidence in the authorities in this connection and their assessments. I think that's quite fair. It is also important that we have confidence in the Danish authorities, but what this proposal is about is not to deprive the authorities of their ability to assess the security situation in a country, on the contrary. That will still be the case. What the proposal here amends is that it states that there must be fundamental, stable and lasting changes in the country of origin, as it has previously been in the legislation. Why is it that the Left is so opposed to there having to be fundamental, stable and lasting changes in the country of origin so that people can be sent there?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217104534	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217104535	Thank you. We think, as the Minister has also explained, that when you have been granted an asylum, not because you are personally persecuted, but simply because there is war in the country you come from, then you have to go back when there is no more war.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217104554	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217104556	But how does it make sense that you end up in a situation where you think it is safe enough to send people to Damascus and Rif Damascus, but not safe enough in the rest of Syria? Does it not suggest that there are some slightly absurd rules on how to assess the security situation when we can make such a difference in areas that are so close to each other?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217104618	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217104619	This isn't about being personally persecuted. We are confident that the authorities will be able to assess whether the places to which they are going are safe. It is no different for the Syrians who already live there now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217104634	The next brief remark is from Mr. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217104637	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. I look forward to some good discussions with the new rapporteur of the Left in this area. I also hope, rather naively, that the fact that a new face and a new name have been given to the rapporteur could perhaps also give some reflection in relation to shaking the bag a little, compared to where the Left has been on the question. That is why I would like to ask an open question. Now I just referred to this German state judgment which says that Denmark is not following this Dublin regulation and that it is now not seeing Denmark as a safe third country. We know that NGOs and very many organisations are out to say that Denmark has a non-humanist refugee policy. We have seen the criticism from the Torture Commission; we have seen the verdict against Russia, which now says that Syria is by no means safe. If this does not give rise to some reflection, does it not give rise to some reflection on the part of the Left that we have simply got too far into our refugee policy and that we have to adjust back into it? All right, you want a strict immigration policy, but when such important organisations and institutions criticise us, there is something about talk. Could we not have a comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217104754	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217104755	I'd like to correct. I am not, therefore, the rapporteur for the Left for foreigners. It's Mads Birded. I am the rapporteur on this motion for a resolution. I do not think it is possible to conclude from the judgment that it is not generally possible to return to Syria. The judgment concerns the eight persons to which the judgment relates and their situation. So no, I support the authorities and their assessment of it. We can vouch for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217104827	Would you like a follow-up note? No. We thank the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217104852	The citizens' proposal is to ensure that refugees can only be withdrawn or refused the extension of a residence permit if fundamental, stable and lasting changes have taken place in their country of origin. Since December 2019, the Refugee Board has assessed that the Syrian capital, Damascus, and since the surrounding province of Rif Damascus, are safe enough for refugees to return if they are not personally persecuted. It is important to understand that temporary stay in Denmark means that it is temporary. Delays should not result in a permanent stay in Denmark. Recently, it was promoted that the Refugee Board overturned the decision in 43%. of cases in which a Syrian has lost its asylum base in Denmark. 57% So the decision in their case will not be reversed. It has also been suggested that only seven Syrians have actually returned, and that is obviously too few. There's gotta be a better way for the government to do that. In April, the newspaper Denmark reported that 140,000 Syrian refugees in the neighbourhood have returned home by volunteering. The number of people who have since returned from neighbouring countries is not known, but it shows that many people are actually going back home, and that is probably not the case if it is dangerous to be at home. It is therefore also possible for Syrian refugees in Denmark to return home if they are not personally persecuted, and these are many refugees with temporary residence permits under Section 7 of the Aliens Act. 3, not. The cases are decided by the Foreign Affairs Council and the Refugee Board. Denmark provides generous help to refugees who voluntarily wish to return home. That is what is called repatriation. In March 2021, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration reported that 137 Syrians voluntarily returned home with financial support via the repatriation scheme in 2020. The year before was 100. Many more Syrian refugees should seek the help and return home. It is the basis of Danish foreign policy that refugees are only offered protection for as long as they need protection. Refugees must return home when they are no longer entitled to protection, including Syrian refugees. That is why the Danish People's Party does not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217105114	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217105131	Thank you. The subject here is something very close to the heart of the Socialist People's Party, which is why we are also pleased that the authors have put so much time and effort into this proposal and that 50,000 people have signed the proposal so that we now have the chance to debate it here in Parliament. The stories of refugees who are told to go back to Syria are heartbreaking, and both when I turn on the television when I open the newspaper, and more often when I look at my e-mail, I hear stories from Syrians who fear the future they are facing. Several of them I have also met face to face, and I must say frankly that it is rare for me to be so sad about my work here in the Folketing, but the times when I hear about the personal stories of returned Syrians are one of the exceptions. It really isn't for delicate souls. Because life in Syria isn't safe. Syria is governed by a regime known to carry out toxic gas attacks on its own citizens. Syria is a country in which there is still a great risk of violence and abuse and of conflict with the Syrian authorities. And Syria is, last but not least, still very unstable. The long-standing civil war that sent Syrians on the run is barely over, and there's nothing like stability in these areas. Then it may well be that improvements have been made, but when there is still danger, and when there is still instability, it is not something that comforts me very much, nor does it reassure the Syrians who have an order in their hands to either go back to Syria or be placed in an exit centre. As Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard said just now, very few people end up going back to Syria. She sees it as a problem, I see it as an expression that people are afraid of the conditions that will meet them if they go back. But why do Syrians even get this order when their country is both uncertain and unstable? Is it because all other countries are doing so and have created a twisted reality in which it is accepted in the world community to repatriate Syrians? No, that is not the case at all. Denmark is going alone in this area, and we have had intense criticism of the UN for it. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's government took the first steps to the one-off in 2015, when the then government changed the criteria for residence permits with the support of several other parties, and instead of following the UN's words to send refugees only home when there are fundamental, stable and lasting changes in the home country, a more loose model was passed, where it is the practice to send refugees back, as long as certain improvements have been achieved, regardless of whether the conditions in the home country are still fragile and uncertain. When it was adopted, it was just words in a legislative text, but now the consequences of the law have become differently tangible. On the basis of that law, it has simply been estimated that Damascus and Rif Damascus are safe enough to send Syrians back there, and that is why, unfortunately, we are constantly hearing in the media, in our mailbox and face-to-face from Syrians, who are being confronted with the almost inhumane choice of whether to sit in an exit centre without any realistic chance of things changing in the near future, or whether they will instead return to a country that is both uncertain and unstable. I wouldn't want that choice for my worst enemy. The Socialist People's Party opposed the legislative amendment introduced in 2015 and we are even more opposed to it now that it has had consequences for real people. Denmark must, of course, follow the UN recommendations, and this can only go too slowly. That is why the Socialist People's Party supports the citizens' proposal here, and we continue to fight for it, regardless of how much the government and the right are fighting against it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217105605	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217105606	Thank you. And thank you for a very good speech. We cannot agree more on the part of the alternative. I would like to hear the rapporteur's position on Amnesty International's advice and assessments in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217105624	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217105625	We have actually held several meetings with Amnesty International. There are both some that I have been in contact with, but we have also been several rapporteurs who, together through the committee, have been in contact with them. And it is quite clear that Amnesty International raises a violent criticism of Denmark's actor in this situation, and I understand that, because there is nothing to indicate that there should be lasting peace in Syria. And when you hear about the terrible things that are happening in Syria, with rapes, abuse of children, torture... well, I hardly have a word for it... I think it's crazy to send people there, as the situation is right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217105702	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Torsten Gejl a follow-up remark? No, good. The next brief remark is from Mr. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217105708	I would also like to thank you for an excellent speech. And you can feel it coming from the heart. I think that's good too. I know it sounds a little polemical when I ask the question, but it is not actually thought that way, and I do not know how to put it so that it does not seem like some kind of counter-play. But the natural question is, sir. Carl Valentin: How long will it be that as a support party the government is doing something that does Mr. Carl Valentin so sad?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217105757	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217105758	I don't know if I think we're gonna put up with it. Because I think we are protesting very loudly and we are pushing this point. But this is an eternal dilemma in the field of foreigners because we have a government which has decided that it would like to make the majority of its policy with the right hand of the Assembly. And that means, of course, that there is a massive majority working against what is SF's policy in this area, and that is why we are fighting day and night for concessions, and we have got some of those that matter to us in the field of foreigners. We got rid of the island of Lindholm as an exit center. We have got Denmark to welcome quota refugees again, which was probably number one for us. We've got the children out of Soulsmark. In other words, we have made some concessions in the area of foreigners, but we are continuing to fight for more, and we really hope that the government will listen, because I believe that there will be a day when the situation can again become so unstable in Syria that it will regret the approach that has been taken here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217105854	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217105858	I would very much like to acknowledge that the best can also be the worst enemy of the good, because then you get nothing. We all know this problem. Nevertheless, there has to be something if you get so sad that you can make life very, very difficult for the government if it doesn't listen to the support parties. I'm experiencing it, sir. Carl Valentin says here as if it is quite fundamental, and that is why we need to have a discussion about where we will have to take the other side at some point, hopefully.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217105935	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217105938	This is extremely important for the Socialist People's Party, and we have also repeatedly stressed this to the government, and we have also done so in accord with the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten, and I am pleased that the Christian Democrats also take part in it. That does not mean that we are proposing to overthrow the government tomorrow, because I do not see that solving the problem. In other words, it will trigger a choice, and then we may have a bourgeois government, and the assessment of the things that are being said in here is probably not exactly because it will protect the Syrians. So we must use the power we have and call for consultation, use various parliamentary instruments and press for that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217110012	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217110016	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Carl Valentin for a good speech, I think, and for overall good cooperation in this area. Actually, I just want to ask Mr. Simpson. Carl Valentin, what he thinks is the next step, because he is quite right that this is the eternal dilemma. Carl Valentin himself called it "in the field of foreigners." I'm going to think about that myself, and we're going to think about it a lot in the Enhedslisten what the next steps are. So I really want to hear what Mr. Carl Valentin I am thinking now, and also invite to a future dialogue about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217110052	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217110056	I often endeavor to reply directly and very clearly here from the platform, because I think it is an important value. However, I do believe that this is an internal consideration among the support parties, in terms of how we can best break the government here and get them to make concessions in this area. So I would like to discuss it with Rosa Lund, but I think we should do it outside the Chamber, in other words on how best to get the minister moved.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217110119	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217110123	It's fine for me that it's going on in another forum. I'm just really, really glad that we can be allies on this issue, because there are the cramped conditions, at least inside this hall, for the humanist immigration policy. So let's have that talk in the new year.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217110146	The next brief remark is to Mr. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217110151	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. I wasn't going to take the floor. After all, it is no secret that we in the Free Greens are trying to press the support parties to say that we must have a showdown. So I'm not going to ask that part or comment on it now. I was just tempted when I heard Mrs. Rosa Lund and Mr. Carl Valentin talks about having a dialogue about what to do with the government, to comment on it and to say that the Free Greens have a few advices, as if you need them, we are also very happy to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217110226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217110228	I have no doubt about that, because that is actually what the Free Greens most often focus on when we have foreign debates in here, that is to say to try to say to the support parties: you have to threaten the government to overthrow it now if it does not agree in this area. So I know the parliamentary position of the Free Greens here and the strategy you want. We may have a little strategic disagreement there, I must admit, but I would like to listen to Mr. Sikandar Siddique's advice. There's no doubt about that, but I don't think we're gonna end up in the same place.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217110255	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kathrine Ollldag from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217110318	Thank you, President. Thank you to the rapporteurs for an excellent debate. Thank you to the authors for this suggestion. It is fantastic that together we can fight this case, that we, those of us who are still fighting for a humanistic immigration policy in the Danish Parliament, can feel that there is also popular support out there, that the people and voters are biting on and putting forward these citizens' proposals and using the tool that the Alternativet has introduced and thanks for that. In fact, I think it is extremely nice that we can deal with matters which are close to our citizens and which are also close to the Radical Left. Stop repatriating the Syrians is also a matter of great concern to the Radical Left. After all, we see time and again, and that is what voters and citizens are reacting to how treasured employees are pulled out of a workplace, how your colleagues are suddenly told that they can no longer stay in Denmark. Where I live, it has also been about employees who have service positions, for example. in an auto shop or are production workers, therefore, hands which are actually lacking. We see a great many companies out there in what is called the Outkantsdanmark, which benefit more from using refugees' eagerness to work than they benefit from contacting the local job centre or the trade unions. That is why I think that there is a great deal of common sense in saying that the repatriation of Syrian refugees should be stopped. We have also seen that the acids are treasured. For example: Danish Industry South Zealand this year has elected an apprentice of the year, who was actually a Syrian refugee. After all, we are undermining confidence in the political system and in the people's understanding of what is common sense and what is not common sense when we actually pull the curtain away under these citizens who are in the process of proving that they can and will. I also know that there are crime statistics and statistics at all which show that there is also greater unemployment and that there are also greater crime fluctuations among these groups, but this is not something that we, as a society, cannot deal with. In this country, we have the highest growth rate in 15 years. We have the lowest unemployment rate for 12 years. We have 110,000 vacant positions across sectors, industry by industry crying out for labour, and then we have a lot of Syrian refugees who actually want to be allowed to prove that they want to stay here. It is also the case, as previous rapporteurs have said, that 43%. The decisions of the National Council for Refugees are reversed in the Refugee Board, and it also says that there is no certainty in Syria that when you actually individually assess the cases of the refugees, you have to reverse them. Yet one has to hunt them down a fear in life and make sure that they are well and thoroughly psychically shaken, so that it may also be difficult for them to come back and resume the life they were really doing. Nor do we have an agreement with Assad's regime, so de facto the returnees end up in an exit center where they can sit and look into the wall, and in general we just experience in the Radical Left that we have one dead end after another in this area. It is a dead end for Syrian refugees. It is a dead end to an asylum system that we have still not found the best solution to. We would also like to help find a constructive solution here in the Radical Left, but this is just not common sense. So right now and here, and what this citizens' proposal so excellently proposes is: Stop now for the repatriations, so that the Syrian refugees in Denmark have an opportunity to prove that they can and will, and then we can take a position on it when and if Syria becomes safe, when and if we get a return agreement, or when we get there, where the Syrian refugees have actually been here for so long that they start to be able to seek permanent residence or stay here on other arrangements. So summa summarum: Radical Left is super fond of this citizen's proposal, and of course we are voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217110733	Thank you. There are several brief comments, and the first is to Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217110739	Thank you. It was also an excellent speech made here by Mrs Kathrine Ollyday. I don't know if I really like that common sense terminology, but then it's more a matter of taste, because I think this is more about human perception and ethical claims and not such a utility value in relation to Danish business. But that's okay! All the arguments count in this case, so let's just take it with us. But I would like to ask the Radical Left what the party's policy is on the concept of temporary, that is, temporary stay. After all, the party itself has helped legitimise temporary residence. What is the party's present position on this on the basis of the teachings one has had to draw from the repatriations of the Syrians?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217110830	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217110834	Thank you for the question and for the opportunity to answer it. We are opposed to section 7, paragraph 7. 3, which I know very well that we ourselves have been involved in introducing at the time of 2015, when we were dealing with thousands of Syrian refugees. But we really wanted to see section 7, paragraph 7. 3 on the suspension of provisional measures.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217110854	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217110859	And then comes the question that Mrs Kathrine Ollyday can put himself almost well, but I am going to ask them every single time, and I hope for better answers every time: how on earth could one fail to support us when we said in the negotiating circle around the Afghans that we had to take a break with temporary residence and give a permanent stay so that people's lives are not put on hold?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217110926	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217110929	Then I will try to answer this time better than the last time the rapporteur asked. If then we had made a special law for the Syrians, as we have done this time for the Afghans, the Syrians would in fact have had the opportunity to apply to our general asylum system, and they would have been better off today than they are now, when they have been forced into this section 7 paragraph. 3, that is, the temporary nature rule. So I actually think... yeah, sorry, my time has run out.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217111003	The next brief remark is to Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217111008	Thank you. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is aware of the very, very large number of Syrians who voluntarily return to Syria from the countries around Syria. This also applies to a great many Syrians who have travelled to Europe and who are now starting to return to Syria because conditions have improved so much. The Minister confirmed that it is well over 100 per year who voluntarily travels from Denmark back to Syria. And perhaps the rapporteur could explain why the rapporteur himself thinks it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217111032	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217111037	We are told these figures over and over again, i.e. how many people voluntarily go home. But the Minister could, for example. do not answer whether there is real security when the refugees return home. And we get these reports from various human rights organisations, which show and prove time and time again that there is so that some people voluntarily go home with money in their backs and hope for the best, does not mean or prove that it is safe in Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217111117	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217111120	So let me try to get it a little closer. As the Minister said, it is well over 100 who travel back from Denmark every year. Has the rapporteur heard just one example of those people having gone back and been thrown into prison or mistreated or otherwise?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217111135	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217111138	The reports that come from human rights organisations and what they say when we talk to them are anonymised. So it is very difficult to see who they really are talking to. Is it exactly someone who has come from Denmark with money in his back? So, in terms of being able to say specifically whether it is about it and that man or woman, we cannot get closer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217111155	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217111202	Thank you. I would just like to thank the Radical Left rapporteur for kicking some hope into the foreign debate. For the Radical Left, the proof is that we can change our attitude in foreign policy; they are proof that we can succeed in getting parties to change their attitude to this paragraph. For that is what the Radical Left has done, and I am really pleased about it, both in terms of real policy, but I am also pleased about it, because it means that it can and we are glad that we are now again playing teams with the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217111242	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217111246	It is no shame to change your mind, and I think that many people can learn from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217111254	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217111314	Thank you for the floor and, above all, for the citizens' proposal. I would like to start by saying that in the Enhedslisten we agree with the more than 56,000 Danes who have signed this citizens' proposal. The Enhedslisten fully supports the citizens' proposal, and we sincerely hope that other parties will also think twice about it. Because this isn't just about political markings in the press or on social media. This is for Enhedslisten about creating security for some of the people in Denmark who are most exposed and live in fear of what their future will bring. In 1951, i.e. 70 years ago, Denmark was one of the first countries to sign the UN Refugee Convention, and before that the world had seen unimaginable suffering and experienced what the consequences can be when people have to flee their homeland, just to discover that other countries are ignoring their prayer for help. Unfortunately, Denmark was not much better itself and rejected Jews fleeing from Germany until 1943. It is on the historical background that the refugee convention was created, and Denmark was among the first to sign it, as I said, and to sign that people fleeing must have the right to seek asylum and that those receiving asylum must have the opportunity to integrate and feel safe in their new country. In recent years we have heard again and again from the platform I am standing on now that Denmark is being overrun by asylum seekers. It has been repeated so many times that it seems as if everyone is just taking for granted that it is true, and again and again it has been used as an argument for Denmark to have to be as hard as possible on foreign policy, but although there are many people in this Chamber who do not want to talk about it, the truth is that there have never been as few people seeking asylum in Denmark as there are right now. So it is simply not right when it is said over and over again that Denmark is over by asylum seekers. The separation between refugees and the security assessment is also something that previous rapporteurs have mentioned, and we have talked about it in this Chamber, that is, the security assessment that is being made by Syria. It is clear from the refugee convention that people fleeing may be able to withdraw their residence permit when fundamental and stable and lasting changes have taken place in their country of origin. This means that people who are in Denmark and are granted a residence permit under the Refugee Convention, i.e.: Paragraph 7 of the Aliens Act. 1, or § 8, para. 1, may have their residence permit withdrawn when fundamental changes have taken place in their country of origin. The press also often sees politicians, including the Minister, Socialist rapporteurs, saying that refugees can only be returned to their country of origin if the Refugee Board considers that there is certainty. But that's just not the reality. For in 2015, the SR government, together with the Blue Block, adopted a bill which means that a distinction must now be made between those refugees who have asylum under the Refugee Convention on the one hand and those who have asylum under the European Convention on Human Rights in particular. On the other hand, those who do not have asylum on the basis of the Refugee Convention and who are not considered individually persecuted, but are still in enormous danger, otherwise they would never have fled, otherwise they would never have been granted asylum, now being sent out of Denmark, although there is no certainty in their country of origin. In fact, they can be sent out if only there has been a tiny improvement in the situation in the country of origin, even if conditions are still serious and I quote'serious' and must be described as fragile and unpredictable. In concrete terms, this means that Denmark, as one of the only countries with which we normally compare ourselves, is now rejecting Syrian refugees; in concrete terms, this means that Syrian families are separated; in concrete terms, this means that Syrian families are sitting in exit centres; in concrete terms, this means that Syrian families, who are in Denmark, are being separated because we have created a policy that is no longer in line with what we have been going on for so many years as one of the first countries to sign the refugee convention. The Enhedslisten very, very warmly supports this citizens' proposal, and once again I would like to thank those who have submitted it and all those who have signed it. The Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217111815	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217111819	Without history we go mad, so writes Gregers Dirckinck-Holmfeld in the third volume of his Danish chronicle. I was just thinking about that when Mrs Rosa Lund gave her speech here. Thank you so much for outlining the story. Thank you very much for Mrs Lund's never failing voice and never failing indignation in this area. It gives hope, even when I look around the Chamber and, after all, both see and listen to how many votes there are actually on the line that Mrs Rosa Lund lists here. So it's just a receipt for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217111902	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217111907	Thank you very much, sir. Jens Rohde. I think sir... Jens Rohde, like myself, knows the feeling that sometimes you feel a little alone in this debate, so it's just really nice, I think we're getting more and more.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217111921	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Rosa Lund I'm starting a new package of napkins). Yeah, we're gonna need a few. Rosa Lund, that's it. After all, we can't have that mr. Marcus Knuth receives socialistlus). No, it really can't. Marcus Knuth I didn't say that). Rosa Lund No, it was me. I thought I'd better make a bold remark myself before you did it). Here you go, a delusionsed speaker's chair.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217111955	Thank you very much to the President and to the Enhedslisten. We in the Conservative People's Party have the relatively clear view that, as a refugee, we must, of course, return to our home country when our authorities consider this to be justified. Asylum is, after all, a temporary status. You get protection, in this case in Denmark, until it is safe to return home. If we depart from that principle, we risk that asylum will develop into a fast track system for permanent residence and perhaps even Danish citizenship. In addition, we believe that as a person who has been given temporary protection in Denmark, we should go home and rebuild our country when it is justified. In addition, we would also like to make it clear that it is therefore the immigration authorities in Denmark who are assessing whether it is safe to return to the country of origin. It is not something that we have a map here in the Folketing pointing to, and I do not think it should be. But that is, in fact, a little what this motion for a resolution is proposing. Right now, our immigration authorities estimate that, in relation to Syria, the overall situation in Damascus and Rif Damascus is developing so that you can go back there, and we do not think that we should sit here in the Folketing and interfere in that. In addition, as the Minister confirmed not long ago, there are already a great many from Syria who have resided in Denmark and who voluntarily, with the help of Denmark, travel back to Syria, among others. through the repatriation scheme. What I mentioned earlier is also happening from the vicinity and from around other countries in Europe. The Syrians who are no longer entitled to stay in Denmark should of course also return. Otherwise, we are undermining the whole purpose of the asylum system and we risk Denmark becoming an asylum magnet again. Therefore, as I did from my chair before, I call on the Minister for Integration and Foreign Affairs to do as much as possible so that those people who no longer have a residence requirement in Denmark go back to their country of origin, regardless of whether they come from Syria or elsewhere. Conservatives cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217112157	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217112200	Is it the position of Conservatives that Assad is going to a war criminal court?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217112215	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217112219	That is not what we are discussing here. If it is the case that war crimes have been committed, then, of course, a war criminal court needs to be tried. What we are discussing right now - and I hope the President will confirm this - is a motion for a resolution on whether we should send Syrians who are no longer resident in Denmark back to Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217112233	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217112236	Yeah, yeah, but the backdrop's kind of important. Well, we have to figure out what kind of game board we're discussing. That is why I think the question is relevant, just as I put it to the Minister. In other words, when you think that they should go home and build up their country and you think that this is justified, you must also be able to give an answer as to whether you think that Assad should be in a war criminal court and whether you have confidence in the regime that is in Syria on which these people must build their country.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217112311	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217112315	In fact, I would like to support the Minister in what the Minister said before. Well, we don't even recognize Assad. I think that is quite obvious. However, this is not the same as our authorities not being able to assess that it can well be safe to be or to stay in the country. It is not the case that recognizing a regime is the same as there is a hundred per cent war or one hundred per cent no war. These are two very different things. What we're discussing here is whether the conditions in all or parts of Syria... in this case parts of Syria... have been assessed by our alien authorities as sure to go back to. And that is what our authorities are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217112344	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique from the Free Greens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217112406	Thank you for the floor, President. First of all, I would like to start by thanking the authors of the motion and thanking the 56 000 citizens who voted in favour of this proposal and gave us the opportunity to discuss this very important proposal. Let me start by saying that the Free Greens fully support the proposal. We are in complete agreement and we hope that this proposal and further consideration will help to bring about the change that is needed in the area of refugees and foreigners. This paragraph, which we are talking about, is repeatedly used to legitimise the inhuman conditions we are currently exposing our Syrian refugees and other refugees. We should not have a law at all in Denmark that allows us to send refugees back to Syria in the present situation. We must therefore put an end to the principle of temporary nature. We must accept to have more refugees in our society, because there will be more of them. It is shameful that Denmark has closed its borders in this way, especially when we are so wealthy a country. We are the only country in Europe that has chosen to adapt our legislation in this way and to send people back to Syria. Refugees are people in need and they have a place in our society. We must shoulder that responsibility, even though we are a small nation, and basically we must ensure the living conditions of those who are already here. One must be able to live in Denmark without fear of being sent back to death, destruction and war. If the authorities and the government recognise that people are being sent back to fragile and unpredictable conditions, then there is something wrong with the legislation. That is why we in the Green Group also believe that the precautionary principle is not enough. We need to change our course. We must ensure that the Syrian refugees do not go back to the executioner, the dictator Assad. And we have to respect and accept that there are now quiet and cautious, but surely more and more citizens in Denmark who want to break up with this inhumane refugee policy. So the Free Greens fully support the proposal and also call on the government to support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217112651	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Free Greens. There are no brief comments. Then the next speaker is Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217112716	Thank you, President. I think that this debate presents a great dilemma. The dilemma is about what you do when legislation actually supports acts that are obscene. What do we do when legislation allows the Syrians to return to a reality which, according to Amnesty International, is not safe? It is quite indecent to send people back to Syria when such a large and strong NGO as Amnesty International says so clearly that they are not in security and yet it allows the law to do so. This is a dilemma which over 50,000 citizens have ensured we are addressing here in the Folketing today, and thank you for that. In the alternative, we have no doubt. Dignity and decency are at the forefront of all life's questions, and if the law allows obsceneness, then it should not be applied. Unfortunately, there is a lot of legislation that has been developed in this area in this country over the last few years that allows obsceneness. It's even been celebrated with cake. Now it's the case that among other things... Mr. Sikandar Siddique has tried to raise this debate to a slightly more general level here today. So, what do the support parties in the long run do about the fact that a government in this way is doing acts which I think are at least obscene and which I also hear the support parties protesting against? It's one thing to talk about overthrowing a government. Now I know that it is annoying when small parties start to advise support parties that take responsibility for ensuring that we do not have a bourgeois government at least. So I'm gonna try saying this in an annoying way: can there be another way? In other words, when we got this government, I had actually hoped that in a few years we would see that SF and Enhedslisten and the Radicals entered the government. I had been looking forward to green ministers from the Red Parties and from Radicals. Sometimes I very much disagree with those parties, but I am sure that it would have been an improvement with red ministers, for example. the green ministries. My analysis now I don't know what's going on inside the engine room, because I'm not that close to the government is that one of the things that keeps the support parties from being able to go to government is this. So, how can you go into a government with this refugee and immigration policy? That must be a huge dilemma. So my little inspiration for the debate that is guaranteed, and as I hear there is still among the support parties, about how to contain something like this, is perhaps to make a musketeered, which says that we are now entering the government. Of course, we're fighting these injustices - we won't attack you for it by the Alternative, and then you take ministerial positions, among other things. the green areas. Yes, and we'd be happy to make Franciska Rosenkilde available if it were. She has been the Mayor of Culture in Copenhagen and has much more experience than many of the very young Social Democrats who were given ministerial posts and who, moreover, have done very well in my opinion; I do not always agree with them, but technically. So it's gonna be my little kick in. How wonderful it would be if one could make a fortress peace that, despite this terrible immigration policy, the support parties could come in and get ministerial posts and create value on e.g. the green area. That was my little inspiration for that debate. Back to the citizen's proposal. I just want to say thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution for ensuring that this debate is brought up in the Folketing. It is clear that it is difficult to wring the government out of the twist that the immigration and refugee policy has unfortunately taken. But the more it comes up, the more we discuss it, the more we expose it, the more we light it up, the more decency will hopefully gain ground. The alternative is in favour of the citizens' proposal. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217113148	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217113151	That was a very interesting rapporteur's speech, thank you for that. I just have to be absolutely sure that I understand it correctly, i.e. that the alternative party calls on the Radical Left and the SF to join the government and accept the immigration policy that is being conducted, which is not as strict as the one we would like to pursue, but which, after all, is fairly reasonable on some points. So, the alternative SF and Radical Left are calling for support? And that means, of course, if you go into a government, that you vote the same on the government's foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217113224	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217113229	I would also like the Enhedslisten, but I am sure that it will also create value on this point, because then you got a chance to fight on the inner lines against this immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217113236	Thank you very much, sir. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217113259	Thank you. I don't think so, sir. Torsten Gejl that it is the will that is lacking in the support parties, not I know, to go into government. Probably the problem is that you're not invited, and it's no shame not to come to the party if you're not invited. But maybe that can change. I don't know what it's gonna look like to the rest of us if we look over at the bourgeois wing. After all, KD is a bourgeois party and has a citizens' point of departure, and I have to admit that it is true that the humanist point of view and, of course, the support for this self-evident citizen's proposal are very much on its own. Because it should be obvious that our policy was that way. However, as Henrik Ibsen writes in the "An Enemy of the People," Dr. Stockmann's last words in Act Five: Whoever stands alone stands strongest in the world. And then you have to fight your fights from there. So there you can sometimes feel a little powerlessness, but I can then be very excited and excited with hope when I actually hear how many votes there in this Chamber ventilate the views that are in line with the citizens' proposal that we have here today, and that is what I was thinking: could we not just make the rule that those in the Chamber are the majority? We could just do it temporarily, and then we had the majority to support the citizens' proposal today. Out here in our street crossing on the roads, you set up these second counters everywhere, so we know when our lives are no longer on hold, when we can be allowed to cross the pedestrian area. This is because it helps to increase road safety, as long as you know that people are stressed not to know how long they have to wait. Here we talk 30 seconds, 45 seconds, maybe 1 minute, and we do that for our own sake, and at the same time we put other people's lives on hold for years indefinitely. I have to say I don't know if you can use that expression from Parliament's platform that I just think it's perverse. This is deeply problematic from a human point of view, from the ethical point of view, which has also been addressed from up here: decency, decency, general dignity, human respect for people who have fled from something that we all agree here is a reign of terror. And I simply cannot understand that one can think that one does not want to recognise the Assad regime. Some people are very explicit that he is going to a war criminal court, and others are a little more hesitant about it; personally I think he is going to a war criminal court and that at the same time one says that one can send people back to a regime from which they have fled and which we do not want to recognise. I just can't understand it. I just can't understand it. It doesn't make any sense and shouldn't make any logical sense to anyone, regardless, sir. Marcus Knuth, what kind of foreign policy you saw otherwise stands for. I just don't understand. As I mentioned, Gregers Dirckinck-Holmfeld writes that without history we're going crazy. Yes, and so do we when we hear that, if we do not take these initiatives and if we do not pursue the policy we are doing, we will be overturned. I just want to remind you that this is what they said when I was a kid in the 1970s. At that time, there were 78%. Today, 88 per cent of the world's displaced persons and refugees living in the neighbourhood. I think you can take that number into account in history. Of course, we wholeheartedly support this citizens' proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217113817	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and it is only from Mrs Kathrine Oldag, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217113824	Thank you for that, and thank you for an excellent speech. There is usually always schwung on when the rapporteur is on the platform. I also noted in the various statements made by the rapporteur in various places that the rapporteur has been given a very Christian, soft and humanistic approach, among other things. to foreign policy. The rapporteur, however, had this too, even when the rapporteur was a member of the Left, and one of the reasons why the rapporteur switched to the Radical Left was, of course, the policy of foreigners. How, and now, does the rapporteur himself propose to do so by starting to talk about parliamentarianism? can the rapporteur defend that the Christian Democrats support the blue block, since it is now the case that the overall blue block will always vote against such a type of proposal as we have here?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217113913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217113914	Well, that is the same problem as Mrs Kathrine Olly's. After all, I myself took part in radical group meetings and experienced how much frustration there is about the actual situation. But again: there is only one thing to do, and that is to fight from that standpoint and from the place where you stand. I do not think that, because you are a citizen, you need to bring what I experience as an incredible cynicism and a sacrifice of good civil, liberal values on the altar of power. I simply do not recognise that. I believe that the more voices that ventilate, even among the bourgeois, that this is basically wrong, the stronger we become together in the middle, and hopefully we can help to pull something the other way. And we must then be those who ensure that a future bourgeois government is not ruled on the basis of an addiction called the New Civil and Danish People's Party, and I can also guarantee that we will not support or legitimise either. That's 100 percent sure.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217114030	Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217114032	Sir. After all, in the literal sense of the word, Jens Rohde and the Christian Democrats have taken on a urias post by being the foreign policy bulwark up against that side of the Chamber. After all, the Radical Left has never declared that we would support a bourgeois government unless there are some foreign policy concessions. Of course, I also hope, of course, that the Christian Democrats will make some demands on the blue block if they are to support it. So perhaps the rapporteur can already reveal today what demands the Christian Democrats have for a blue government, if that is the case for the party to support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217114112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217114115	It would probably be a bit violent to spend 30 seconds just throwing up a negotiating mandate. But we have said very clearly that we will be putting the demand or task of a future Prime Minister candidate for bourgeois Denmark to work across the middle. Well, we don't rule out anyone in advance, but dependence on New Citizens and DF is a complete no-go on our part, and the reason why I say it so clearly is that I in the Left have experienced what it's like to live on the dependency of the Danish People's Party and how it helps to pull a party and middle position further and further to the right, unfortunately often without you even discover it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217114206	The next brief remark is to Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217114209	Thank you. Actually, I just want to know if sir... Jens Rohde trusts the Danish immigration authorities. After all, they are sitting on an objective basis and looking at which land around the world it is safe to send people back to. But that, sir. Jens Rohde is trying to do here, is to do some sort of politicization of the process, that is, that it is Sikandar Siddique, Jens Rohde and me who must sit with a map and say: Yes, there is safe, and there I have talked to someone too. Honestly, sir... Jens Rohde on the Danish immigration authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217114238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217114240	Ah, sir. Marcus Knuth, it was a bit of a strawman they made there. I have not actually done so; I have not talked at all about the Danish immigration authorities. If we are finally to talk about them, I think it might be a bit spectacular that, for example, we should be talking about them. decide to assess that Somalia is a safe place to stay when you do so from an airport that you are told you cannot leave, that is to say, that you build your assessments from there. But let's just leave it alone. It is not the administration of the law by the immigration authorities that I am attacking here; it is the law. I am simply fundamentally opposed to temporary nature. And if sir... Marcus Knuth, speaking of the story, would read the German philosopher, whom I have often mentioned, Hannah Arendt, not Isabella Arendt, then he would also know what it does to people to be put on hold in their lives and feel that they have no place in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217114355	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217114358	That's interesting because when we talk about history, we can just look back a few years. There I was in Malmö with Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. It was the autumn when there were very, very many asylum seekers for both Denmark and Sweden, and there I spoke to a deputy mayor over there in Sweden. At that time they did not give temporary residence, everyone just got a permanent stay, so I asked: Why? Well, it was administratively easier. How does Mr. Jens Rohde just did it with Sweden when they just issued residence permits that weren't temporary?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217114426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217114428	But all that depends on what framework you set up and what demands you make on it. I'm just fundamentally opposed to putting people's lives on hold and saying: Now you can wait here for x number of years, we don't know how long it is, and when it's all right and we think it's okay, and that it's safe, we'll send you back. And we don't really care if it's still Assad's government that's in power. If we judge it's safe, we assess it's safe. Well, I simply have to repeat that I do not understand it. I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217114511	The next brief remark is to Mr. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217114515	I wasn't going to take the floor, but now Mr. Jens Rohde has some of his lines to praise the other rapporteurs, and then I thought it was appropriate that I should also take a line to commend Mr Rohde. Jens Rohde. Because it's incredibly refreshing, as in incredible. I just don't know what Mr. Jens Rohde has eaten for breakfast, but so, it is amazing, incredibly liberating and refreshing to hear a bourgeois voice speak so clearly for human relations, for we have lacked that in here for the last 20 years. So from the point of view of the Free Greens, I would just like to say a thousand thanks to the Christian Democrats. There are new times coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217114617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217114619	Thank you. Let's hope there are new times coming. We can be at least one hundred percent sure that if we don't collect the votes and that's on both sides of the political spectrum and ventilate these views, then there won't be new times. They do not come of their own accord, which is why it is a pleasure to stand in the Chamber today and, well enough, to have to admit that there is a massive majority in the Folketing which does not share our views, but at the same time hear that there are in fact many who think that it is the most obvious thing to vote in favour of this citizens' proposal today.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217114706	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the citizens' proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217114741	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217114751	Thank you to the President-in-Office for the floor. And thank you for the motion for a resolution and for an opportunity to discuss one, I think, an important issue. The proposers want the government to ensure the necessary authority to dismantle the Sjælsmark, Avnstrup and Kærshovedgård exit centres as well as Alienscenter Ellebæk and transform them into ordinary residence centres. The proposers also want the management of the centres concerned to be changed so that future operations can be carried out by humanitarian aid organisations. First of all, let me stress that they are not legally resident in Denmark at the Sjælsmark, Avnstrup and Kærshovedgård exit centres. The same applies as a starting point for the inmates at Alienscenter Ellebæk. It is an important priority for the government that people travel home without legal residence. That is why I also agree with the authors of the motion so far that I would prefer that there was no need to accommodate foreigners in an exit centre. However, I would also like to say that the government does not intend to change the fact that foreigners without legal residence in Denmark are to be accommodated at an exit centre. When people with no legal residence in Denmark are accommodated at an exit centre, it is to send a clear signal that the stay in Denmark is over. The transfer to an exit centre must therefore help to prepare foreigners mentally for the new situation. In this context, the new Home Travel Board is present at the exit centres in order to motivate voluntary return via early and ongoing return advice. And if you do not participate in your return journey, you may be subject to control obligations such as: residence and reporting obligations. We do this partly to motivate the individual to go home and partly to have control of where foreigners who are not legally resident in Denmark find themselves. And I think that makes sense. And remember also that those people actually have I do not think it is fair to call the exit centres a failure either. Instead, I would like to welcome the fact that, since the government came into office, we have gone from having approx. 1,100 to approx. 850 rejected asylum seekers in removal position. So we are on the right track. I take this as an expression of the fact that, with government policy, we are doing the right thing. Elsewhere in Europe, where they do not have exit centres, we have seen that rejected asylum seekers settle in iglotte under motorway bridges where they live and work illegally. This will not be a good solution for Denmark, for the unskilled, who must be on the Danish labour market and work legally, or for the rejected asylum seekers. Of course, living a life in an exit centre is not optimal for anyone, either for the individual or for Denmark. The government has therefore implemented a number of initiatives in the area of return travel to ensure that we get more foreigners without legal residence to return home. It's $300,000. per person to have people accommodated for 1 year at an exit center. That is why I am also pleased that the government, with broad support in the Folketing, has adopted a completely new and Denmark's first return journey law, which among other things. to ensure closer follow-up and faster consequences for foreigners without legal residence in Denmark. The new initiatives must ensure that the authorities are better placed to get people to go home. We have, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. So these people will now be able to be sent home as soon as the opportunity arises, instead of sitting in a Danish prison until they have served fully. In addition, some of the new initiatives must help to motivate more of the people concerned to leave the country. Among other things: We now offer asylum seekers a cash bonus if they waive their appeal in the Refugee Board and return home already after the first refusal by the Foreigners' Board. Both the two initiatives work, and I am, of course, pleased about that. I also agree with the proposers so far that Denmark has a responsibility as long as the foreigners are in Denmark, especially when it comes to children. It was also a major debate in the last parliamentary election campaign. After all, it is children who cannot change their situation and who must be protected as well as possible. Therefore, one of the first things the government did was to improve the environment for families with children by moving them from the Travel Centre Zealand to the Travel Centre Avnstrup. At the Excursion Centre Avnstrup the educational offers are significantly strengthened and there is a crèche offer for all children at the center. Despite this effort, we cannot ignore the fact that it is not an ideal situation still to have your childhood at an exit centre. Unfortunately, this will continue as long as the parents concerned do not follow the decision of the authorities to return home. The Foreigners' Board is responsible for providing and operating accommodation for asylum seekers. This is clear from Section 42 of the Aliens Act. In practice, however, the Department of Criminal Welfare operates the Travel Centre Kærshovedgård and the Travel Centre Sjælsmark, while the Red Cross operates the Travel Centre Avnstrup. When it comes to detained aliens, the law of aliens lays down when foreigners may be detained administratively. The police services run the detention centres for aliens on the basis of the legal framework laid down in the field of aliens. The fact that foreigners must be able to be detained and the conditions applicable to them are therefore also the responsibility of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. However, the physical and operational framework of Ellebæk falls within the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice, because the Department of Criminal Welfare is responsible for the operation. The group of those accommodated at Ellebæk consists of foreigners detained under the Return Travel Act or the Aliens Act, among others. for the purpose of deployment. And for me it makes good sense that the centres are run by an authority which has experience of accommodation of similar groups. I therefore have no plans to change who is operating either the exit centres or the Ellebæk Centre for Aliens. So, to sum up, I would like to say that the government is firmly committed to the need for exit centres in Denmark. It's better than people living under bridges in Iglotitete. The travel centres have a clear purpose; they are an important element in all our efforts to ensure that as many as possible without legal residence in Denmark travel home. I also believe that it is an important element in our success in reducing the number of rejected asylum seekers in removal positions quite considerably. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. I look forward to further consideration and discussion of the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217115417	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments to be made to the Minister, and that is first, Mr President. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217115424	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Minister. Of course, the Greens are sorry that the government does not support this proposal, because these exit centres are one of the worst things in the asylum hell we have in Denmark. Now to my question: the Minister said in his speech that the Minister would prefer not to send people to exit centres unless there was a need for it. What kind of need is there to incarcerate these people?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217115507	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217115511	I would just like to point out that those who live in the three exit centres are not detained. Many of them have been refused asylum and therefore have no legal residence in Denmark. In other European countries people are told: please leave our country. And then you're out of control. That's when people become part of the illegal economy, wash up at a pizzeria, don't pay taxes and have to live illegally, and we see this growing illegal underclass in Europe. I do not think that is in Denmark's interest. Then I think it is better to say: you have been denied asylum, you have to leave the country, and if you do not, you must be accommodated and have a residence obligation at an exit centre. They are not detained at that exit centre, but they often have reporting obligations, which means they have to report that they live there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217115558	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217115602	Still away, I just have to ask: what is the need that the Minister and the government see for, for example. to separate parents from their children and grandparents from their children and let them rot in loneliness, alone, away from their families for very, very many years? What is the need for people to say: Now we are tearing the families apart, now we are tearing you apart, and now you parents are allowed to live at this exit center while your children live elsewhere? What's the need?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217115635	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217115636	So, rejected asylum seekers or deportees, who do not have children, will be at the Excursion Centre Sjælsmark or the Excursion Centre Kærshovedgård as a starting point. Those who have children, of course, live with their children at the Excursion Centre Avnstrup. Then it is true that sometimes it happens, for example. has the opportunity to send out some people, that you have the opportunity to get a plane to take off and land at an airport abroad where those people have to drop off. Sometimes it happens to ensure that the family does not go underground, that one person, i.e. an adult in the family, is detained for a shorter period at Alienscenter Ellebæk in order to be able to effect the broadcast. It's not something that's going on forever. This is something that the courts decide every time, and they must ensure that it is the least intrusive measure and that it is proportional and all the normal legal guarantees that exist. This is among other things. What we're using Aliens Center Ellebæk for. The alternative is that when people are told to fly on Tuesday, they go underground, and then we can't get in touch with them, and then we'll never get them out. I understand this is a tough system. But that is the way to make asylum policy work and we can make the rule of law work and ensure that we can implement the decisions that have actually been taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217115744	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217115748	Thank you. After all, I have many things on exit centres which I would like to ask the Minister, but I have only x number of minutes and two brief remarks. So I would like to ask the Minister specifically about the Ellebæk Centre for Foreigners. The minister says it's under the Ministry of Justice. It's just a little funny that every time we ask the Minister for Justice about Aliens Centre Ellebæk, he thinks it's the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, because those in Aliens Centre Ellebæk are not criminals. Their crime in the eyes of the goose is simply that they are rejected asylum seekers and have not complied with their reporting obligations. So I would just like there to be one minister in the government who took responsibility for the conditions at the Aliens Centre Ellebæk instead of using it as such. In fact, I believe that the people who sit there are already sitting there under unfair and inhumane conditions. We would like to know, in the Enhedslisten, which minister we are going to discuss it with.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217115849	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217115850	I remember that the Minister of Justice and I have been in consultation in the Danish Parliament on several occasions about the situation at the Ellebæk Centre of Foreigners. And I also think it makes sense that if you want to discuss these matters, we are both present, because the legislation that provides the framework for detention is written into the Aliens Act and is thus something for which I am responsible, while the specific conditions, such as whether you can have a mobile phone, how large the rooms are and how high the fence is, are something that is run by the Department of Justice, are therefore something for which the Minister of Justice is responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217115923	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217115924	Well, if it is both the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, why has the government not sent both ministers to the Chamber today, knowing that there is a motion for a resolution on the Ellebæk Centre for Foreigners? Despite the disagreements between Enhedslisten and the government on this issue, can the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration not see that it is a little unfair that one does not know where to take this discussion? I also remember that both the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration have been in consultation enough because I have called them myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217115954	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217115955	Today, after all, I represent the government and we do not want to support this resolution. I am happy to stand at the end of the discussion and take the discussions that are needed to deal with this motion for a resolution. And we do not think it would be right to close Aliens Centre Ellebæk and say that the people who are currently accommodated at Aliens Centre Ellebæk should be accommodated at a regular living center. That is the content of the motion for a resolution, and that is what we are not in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217120023	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. Then we can begin the series of rapporteurs and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. Welcome to sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217120046	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the Free Greens are proposing the dismantling of Danish exit centres, and they must instead be converted into ordinary residence centres where it must be possible to work and train themselves. In addition, it is proposed that the operation of the centres should be carried out by humanitarian aid organisations. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that it must of course have consequences when foreigners without legal residence in Denmark do not participate in their own departures. We therefore believe that it is quite reasonable that they have fewer rights than foreigners who cooperate with the authorities. These are foreigners who have at some point come to Denmark as asylum seekers. From the time they have put their feet on Danish soil and asked for asylum, they have been treated properly. In addition, the immigration authorities have used many resources to deal with their asylum cases. Finally, we in the Social Democratic Party believe that it is unreasonable to criticise Denmark for having exit centres, because we are one of the only countries in Europe that offers foreigners without a legal residence to live in an exit centre where they can stay until they return to their own country of origin. We think this is preferable, instead of having to live under highway bridges, in public parks, small lofts and basement rooms belonging to kiosks or restaurants. This is the case in other European countries, and we do not want that in Denmark, even if it costs us DKK 300 000. a year to have just one rejected asylum seeker accommodated at an exit center. Social democracy does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217120201	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217120207	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. We in the Green Group are, of course, sorry that the Social Democrats will not support the proposal. I noticed that the rapporteur said that if we close these exit centres, our fellow refugees must live under bridges and so on. No, of course we will follow up on the fact that they can get into society so that they can get an education so that they can get some work so that children can have a decent life. I don't want them living under bridges. However, my question to the Socialist rapporteur is actually what I also put to the Minister. We know that these incentives do not work, because people do not travel voluntarily, many have been sitting at many of these centres for years, and that destroys people: we have seen the EU's Torture Commission criticize Denmark, we have seen reports, children get ptsd. What kind of need does it make if you know that it doesn't work because they don't leave voluntarily, then you're going to break down these people? That is the dilemma on which I would like to have some inter-counting on the part of the Socialist rapporteur. What's so important that they sit in there?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217120326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217120327	I do not really know how to answer that, because I know how to look at me in the Greens. I saw that sir... Sikandar Siddique's personal advisor, Kevin Loumann, was so nice to tag me in a post yesterday, although I have never been in debate with him, but he was kind enough to write it, and I know that the party is in favour of the good tone. And there he wrote that Lars Aslan is the most uninformed idiot in parliament. The post was followed by a picture of dog excrement. So I really don't know what to say, because I'm like convicted in advance, no matter what I answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217120354	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217120357	I have to say, however, that was a surprising answer. There are a lot of debates going on around here, and I think it would be appropriate not to talk around, but to answer in an otherwise, I think, very, very sober question I asked in a very, very sober way. I have sincerely tried to get the rapporteur to relate to what mechanisms it is, what it is for a need that makes people want to be broken down at these centres. Then we can have the other talk at another time, but I think it's inappropriate to take it in here, and by the way, I don't know about the tweet.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217120435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217120436	Now it's sir. Sikandar Siddique, who has sent his personal advisor out to send something like this, and it is a party that is very much in favour of a really nice tone, and then it is just that I mention it here, because I think that is actually relevant. I think it's more inappropriate to call one of your colleagues a complete idiot by going after me like this and expecting me to take this seriously. That says something about the debate tone of the Free Greens. I'm sorry, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217120457	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Anne Rasmussen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217120520	Thank you for the floor. With this proposal, the proposers want us to transform our exit centres into ordinary residence centres, and it must be understood that this is not just a semantic exercise. Indeed, the proposers want us to fundamentally rethink the way in which we run the exit centres. For example: with the new residence centres, we need to focus more on integration and on developing the competencies of residents and counteracting the distrust that is frequent among residents. We recognise the intention of the proposers with the proposal, and so let me make it clear that we in the Left do not want people to be mistrusted, rather the opposite. But at the same time we see it as a necessity that people who do not have a legitimate residence in Denmark should go home and contribute to their own society. This is particularly true for those who, during their stay in Denmark, have had access to education and jobs and who have thus had the opportunity to acquire competences; competences with which they are now to help rebuild their own country in order to achieve lasting peace and stability. Travel centres are for the people that the authorities have assessed have not been legally resident in Denmark. When refugees refuse to go home, they break with the mutual agreement we have jointly concluded when they were granted asylum in Denmark. The mission of the travelling centres is to ensure that those who are staying in them return home. It is therefore in the view of the Left that it is a misguided idea to see exit centres as residence centres to support integration and skills development. It is, of course, a regrettable situation that those who expect to settle in Denmark are not allowed, especially when there are children involved. But it is now the case that a majority in Denmark is behind the refugee policy that is, and if you do not have the right to stay in Denmark according to the law in force, you have to go home. We reasonably feel that we can expect to cooperate with the authorities on this matter. If you do not, then you end up staying at an exit centre. We do not want to make it attractive for expelled foreigners and asylum seekers to refuse to leave Denmark, and so I can say that the Left is voting against this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217120728	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217120735	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. I took note of the rapporteur's saying that it is of course unfortunate that people lose their appetite for life, that it can break people down and so on, and that is why I would also like to say that it is fair enough that we are in favour of a strict immigration policy and a strict refugee policy, but we can see that these incentive measures do not work so that people do not leave, so that they stay here for many years, their children grow up here, it destroys people, people get ptsd, it destroys the quality of life. What does the Left think about that situation? Because we cannot continue as a society.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217120827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217120828	We think this is a really unfortunate situation, but it is not the case that it is a deliberate attempt to destroy people. The travel centres are for people to go home. We want people to take responsibility. They have been here and they have been granted asylum, and when it is considered that they no longer have the right to asylum, they must cooperate with the authorities and go home. So they must also take responsibility somewhere themselves for putting themselves in that situation when they do not go home.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217120859	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217120900	Okay. That is where I say: let us just say for the sake of the sake of the argument, that is to say for the sake of the argument, that these parents are failing the children by not travelling themselves, because it means that the children get ptsd, that they get broken down, and that is simply not good for them. But what about the best interests of children in a developed country like ours? If, as a society, we should not say: this is not optimal, and if, for the sake of argument, the parents do not take that responsibility, then we as a society must at least ensure the best interests of the children and make sure that they take responsibility for those children and ensure proper conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217120941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217120941-2	Well, I wish there was a solution to this situation, and I think it's terrible to see children being held hostage in these situations. And we want to help look at how we can improve the situation of children.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217120955	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left there are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur and thank you for just getting the platform ready for the next speaker from the Danish People's Party. Welcome to sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217121014	Thank you. The capitulation that the Free Greens would like a majority in this Parliament to agree to, we in the Danish People's Party think is totally reprehensible. We think it is a good thing that it looks to be a proposal which is so strongly opposed to it. If you implement the capitulation proposed here, it will mean that Denmark will become even more a refugee magnet, a migrant magnet, and people will apply to Denmark, because if you get your foot inside, there is a greater chance that you can stay. Because even if you have committed crime and are sentenced to expulsion and are therefore at an exit centre, the proposal here will mean that you have to be treated differently from today, compared to having a more perspective on being able to stay in Danish society in the long term. I have to say that when we talk about, for example... The axe killer who attacked the now unfortunately deceased Kurt Vestergaard and of course both received a verdict on what was it, approx. 10 years in prison and was sentenced to expulsion then, then such a man as him should respect the decision and leave Denmark. And when he does not, should he be rewarded with extra good conditions that the proposal here will mean, or should he really be placed in a way so that he finds out that it was perhaps more fun to leave the country than to stay in Denmark on the Danish taxpayers' bill? I certainly think the latter. We can therefore hear that we do not even think that the intentions contained in the proposal are good either. I think the Left was told that the intentions contained in the proposal are good. So, I do not even see that that is good intentions, because it will really undermine the whole idea of having a refugee policy where you help people for a temporary period, but where, of course, the intention is that when people can return to their country of origin, they are also obliged to do so. If not, this isn't about people feeling bad, because we know that. There are a lot of people who feel bad, and that is sad, and there are a lot of people around the world who unfortunately do, and we must of course find out how we can help people in need from Denmark. After all, we believe that we should have a much greater focus on many of the people who actually live in neighbourhoods for conflict zones or neighbourhoods for climate disasters. This is where we need to do more than have this very, very significant focus on the people who once managed to move all the way to Denmark. I also think it is thought-provoking that this proposal is about the fact that it is estimated that the people who have then reached all the way to Denmark and have actually received the support and help of the Danish society for a period of time can return, and if they do not, if they refuse, they must be given better conditions. What about all the people, mass, hundreds of thousands of people, millions of people living around the world and the hundreds of thousands of people living as neighbours to Syria who, for many, are on their way back to a country like Syria because that is where they know their future lies? In all these places it is much more important that we really look at how Denmark can help people than with such a proposal as the one that lies here from the Free Greens. So from the point of view of the Danish People's Party we say 'no' in reality also to the intention of the proposal. We cannot support it at all and we welcome the fact that a large majority seems to want to reject it and hope that majority will stick to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217121411	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217121416	But it can be said that the Free Greens are not surprised by the position of the Danish People's Party in this matter. In fact, these are also the first small steps in an attempt to break up with the immigration policy that the Danish People's Party has defined for the last 20 years. But that's the thing about scare pictures. Could the rapporteur, sir? Kristian Thulesen Dahl, tell me how many ax murderers or people have committed ax violence at these centers? So now the rapporteur gave that example. I know it's one out of all of them. Now you draw a picture that they are ax killers, or what expression it was exactly that was used. Will Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl tell us how many criminals it really is that are at these centres?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217121515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217121516	So, unfortunately, at our exit centres, there are people who are on tolerating many of them with crime behind them, where it is about sexuality crimes, where it is about drug crime and where it is about violence. We have a number of examples of this. We also had the whole discussion in connection with Kærshovedgård, where we from the Danish People's Party suggested that at least a screening should be carried out, where they were then divided, in relation to who really created insecurity in a community. The people at Langeland were really nervous about these people who were going to be placed there. People in Central Jutland are also really sad to have Kærshovedgård located there close to them. And we suggested that a screening process be carried out, where they were then split up and said that the most insecure simply must be locked up because it is not law-abiding Danish families who should feel that they are locked up and beaten in their own homes compared to they have foreign criminals. It should be the foreign criminals who are locked up. It could be a way of doing this as an alternative to the way in which the Free Greens are proposing here: No, they just need to have better conditions and to a greater extent be part of the ordinary community where they then instead tried to solve the task.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217121625	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217121626	Then I can tell you now that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl does not respond clearly to the fact that the vast majority of people we are talking about here are not criminals. Well, the vast majority of people at these exit centers aren't and I think that's important for the objectivity of the debate that we remember when we talk about these people. It was just a comment on my question.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217121653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217121654	But I never claimed they're all criminals. I know very well that there are people who have been in the asylum system and have been granted asylum, where they now consider that they can actually go home, and then they do not want to go home. We have them, too. But so it could be said with even greater force: why not support the Danish People's Party that we should do a screening of these people, so that the people who are criminals who do insecure activities for people in the area where they live are taken out so that they are not at an ordinary exit centre, so that they have even freer ownership, but where they get even more invigorated relationships, when they cannot go around and cause problems for the local area? We think that a majority in this Parliament should support that. So we want to do this task, but we want to do it in a slightly different way from the one proposed here in the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217121741	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217121753	Thank you. I shall endeavour to be a little more positive about the proposal than Mr Beyer de Ryke. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. I would like to start by thanking Mr. Sikandar Siddique and the other authors of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Green Group in the European Parliament. I think it highlights some important issues in the Danish treatment of asylum seekers, and there are a large number of elements in the proposal that we agree with. First of all, there is a general improvement in conditions at the Danish exit centres. As a starting point, asylum seekers should of course refuse to go home, as there are plenty of people fleeing the world who need Denmark's protection. However, regardless of the situation, we have a responsibility for people in Denmark's custody, and that is why I share the hopes of the Free Greens that one day being accommodated at a Danish asylum centre will be associated with fewer ineffective restrictions and more frameworks that forces rejected asylum seekers for their return. And like sir. Sikandar Siddique believes neither I nor SF in particular that one is more motivated to go home by lack of work and content in life. Another good and important element of the resolution here is therefore that, rather than restricting rejected asylum seekers as much as possible, we should let asylum seekers work, train and develop while they are in this country. There is research that indicates that the longer you let rejected asylum seekers sit in the nothingness of an exit centre, the more discouraged and apathetic and unable to plan their future, they can thus end up being. It may also mean that it is not so likely that they will have their departure planned and that may also be a problem. That is why we are also in favour of the further examination of the proposal here. This is basically a proposal which has both some good elements that the SF agrees with, and also some good intentions, I think. But these are not all the technical elements of the proposal here, which I necessarily agree with one to one. This is true, for example. in relation to the need for changes in operating management. Like other rapporteurs, I have visited several of these centres, and it is not the hardworking employees out there that are not the ones from the criminal services who are in trouble either. What is wrong with my optics is the political framework that is being put down over the centres. And I have no reason to believe anything but that if we change that framework, conditions will also improve. Then I have to admit that I am a little incomprehensible as to why the same authorities, who are doing a good job of caring for Danes in the institution, should not be able to lift this area. In fact, I think that the welfare services and the Red Cross work quite well as cooperation, and we saw that too, when the SF, together with the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten, got the children out of Soulsmark. This was not least thanks to the assistance of the Red Cross, and I would also like to express my sincere thanks to the Red Cross for being determined and constructive in their assistance in providing better conditions for children at Danish exit centres. Now I said that I was almost unequivocally positive about the intention of this proposal, but there is one place where I think the proposal is such on the border to be admirably flawed, and that is the part that is about repatriation. It marks the entire language of the proposal. It is almost as if the proposal does not want to take a position at all on the fact that it is rejected. Sikandar Siddique shares my view that Denmark should do more to protect asylum seekers, but if we are to do so, asylum and residence in Denmark must of course be granted to persons who are entitled to do so. That is why I do not want a proposal like this to find the courage to recognise that dilemma and to offer humanistic and progressive solutions to how we can then make the return journey system work. Because it is evident that it does not work as long as there are people with the right to asylum who do not get it and people without the right to asylum who cannot be sent home. And it's supposed to be the other way around. And if the proposal here really aims to reform the Danish exit centres, why are there only elements in the proposal that are easy for people like us on the left to talk about? In other words, there is no attempt to tackle the major dilemmas we find in a system in which we both have to treat people properly, but also recognise that these are people who do not have the right to asylum. Well, that was just a few reservations. I think there are some good things in this proposal from the Free Greens, and that on long stretches it is such well-designed. We would like to take an active part in dealing with it and hope that we can land a place that we think makes sense. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217122255	Thank you to the rapporteur. That was very precisely 5 minutes' speaking time, nice. There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217122305	Thank you. I would like to sign for the serious consideration of the proposal, and I would just like to say that I look forward to further cooperation. In our view, we are also ready to take up the dilemmas, and we are also ready to see whether we could make the proposal different, better and so on. I think it's just to respond to the charge that for us to see, it's been about us having seen over the last five years how violent the consequences for people living in those exit centres are. That is, in fact, primarily what the proposal is about. But I would like to sign and say that I look forward to further cooperation, and I hope that we can land it in a place where it makes sense, but above all we will ensure that we close down these centres that destroy people. So thank you for taking this proposal seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217122400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217122401	You're welcome. We are trying to deal with proposals in here seriously and we have also spent some energy on this because we really thought that there were many good elements in it, although we did not entirely agree with it. I also hope that we can land it in a good place. Now, if we write something about repatriations and relate to the somewhat dilemmay area and remove it with the operating actor, then it may well be that we can end up voting for it, but now we have to see how it can land and how actively we will work on this and how much energy we will spend on it. It may also be a little difficult when we know that we will probably not be able to get a majority for what it looks like now, but I am also looking forward to further discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217122437	Sir. Sikandar Siddique? No. There will then be no further brief comments to the SF rapporteur, and I would like to welcome the next rapporteur from the Radical Left, Mrs Kathrine Olly. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217122500	Thank you, President-in-Office, and thank you very much to the Free Greens for an excellent and inclusive proposal which, in soft terms, calls for what I also read as a reform of our centre system and the conditions that rejected and expelled asylum seekers live under in these centres. This is also an area and a matter in which the Radical Left has been concerned for many years. On the occasion of this proposal, I had to look into the annals a little, and there I could see that we have never been in favour in our party of having exit centres or of having these very tight and strict measures that are at these centres. Therefore, because this proposal calls for a debate, we shall end up voting in favour. But I would also like to follow up on some of what the SF's rapporteur has also proposed, namely: what is good and bad here? Because we are probably a little sceptical about the element of the proposal that is about asylum seekers having to train and work here. We know that being able to maintain a reasonably normal life helps to create mental stability, which may also make it better and more possible for these people to make an active choice in relation to what should happen in their lives, including, for example: To go home. But when you are not legally resident in Denmark, we do not believe in the Radical Left that you should be able to work and train while you are here. But that does not mean that you cannot live properly at a centre, for example. at least live as well in goose eyes as you live in a prison. We have, for example. We have heard stories from Kærshovedgård, where asylumants, if they do not comply with their reporting obligations, end up in prison, and they often prefer to do so a long way along the way because they have a single room, telephone and access to television, etc. There are many conditions in a prison that are actually better than they are in exit centres. So the dilemma and absurdity of the situation alone makes it absolutely worthwhile for me to discuss how we organise these centres. Unlike the SF, we are also in favour of letting the Red Cross be an operational organisation. It is also about the fact that we really think that the hands of the criminal services should be released for the tasks that are in our actual prisons, and we do not think that an exit centre should act as a prison and seize the few resources available in that area. And then we also have in the Red Cross, for example. staff and professional skills who can deal so much with some of these mentally vulnerable people, such as those who sit in an exit centre, are often, and where, moreover, there is often a mix of criminals, previously convicted, people who have endured, expelled and rejected asylum seekers, people who come from jobs, and people who come from quite stable and normal families. So it is a great enigma of people, which we have also been criticizing in the past, in other words that these people are sitting with each other at these centres. Summa summarum I would like to thank you very much for a soft and spacious proposal, but we also lack this paragraph which deals with the dilemmas: what are we going to do with those who are actually going to be sent home? How do we deal with the issue of exits? It might be interesting to have a discussion on it, including with the Free Greens, when we get there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217122838	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's sir. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217122842	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Radicals for supporting this proposal. We are delighted to hear that. We're on the line. When we say that it should not be criminal justice, it is because right now, when we need prison places, we are going to send our prisoners to Kosovo. Police staff are stressed, and prison officers are missing, and so on, and it just doesn't make sense for us to use the Department of Police to run these exit centres. That is also the reason why we are saying that it should not be criminal justice. In addition, however, I believe that there is the difference, the real difference, that is, the political difference. We in the Free Greens take the view that as long as we cannot send people home, we must create a life for people who can live normal lives. And it is a dilemma that people do not leave if it is that they are deported or rejected. Nevertheless, we are a modern, democratic state governed by the rule of law, in which we will in no way help people to live in conditions that cause them to be broken down. So we can definitely take that discussion in relation to saying okay. But how radical in relation to the Free Greens etc.? The main thing for us here is to say that right now people are being broken down in these exit centres, and we must at least have them closed, and then we are ready to have the next discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217123008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217123009	Yes, or changed! The first rapporteur mentioned that this was not just a semantic exercise. But I may also see it far along the way, like redefining the content and practical arrangements of these centres. I disagree with the rapporteur that asylum seekers who have been expelled and rejected must have what the rapporteur calls a normal life, because then we must at least go in and define strictly what it should be about, because they must understand that they have no basis for residence in Denmark. But to go from there and look at systematically and structurally to break them down as human beings, there is just a limit that we in the Radical Left would like to be involved in defining.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217123045	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217123051	Thank you. It's gonna be super fine, following that exchange of words. If we then agree that many of those sitting at these exit centres are people who are not legally resident in Denmark and who have to travel home and in many situations they will also be able to do so if they want to take the initiative themselves, and they can also get money in several situations. And if you say that they shouldn't be at these exit centres, because that's still a sad situation, so they have to go to ordinary centres where there are better conditions, what will you do as an alternative to have any prospect that these people will ever leave Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217123130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217123130-2	That you don't have the right to work and you don't have the right to have a CVR number and a bank account and all these structural framework phrases about a normal life that allows you to get up in the morning and then it makes sense to be able to take it away from them, we are in a way that they shouldn't be able to have a role or that life in our society. However, to accommodate them in conditions which are unsanitary, harmful to health and inhumane and which are constantly being criticised by the Court of Human Rights and so on, we just do not think we should go to. One might imagine that DF is also wondering if at least we could not just do that it is not cooler to be in prison than to be at an exit centre, as they think.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217123213	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217123214	But we have proposed a screening process where we simply take some of these people who create insecurity and say they must be behind a locked door. I know that there is no majority in favour of it in here, but that is the proposal we have. But now that the Radicals choose to support this proposal and say that we must now put an end to these exit centres, because these people who do not want to leave our country, some of whom have committed crime in Denmark, must have better conditions, then we must have some other prospects. What does it take to get them to leave? Or isn't it really just a capitulation, where you actually say these people never get out of our country, and then we might as well start giving them a little better conditions and just as quietly make them work in Danish society, because they never come home? So, is that not the perspective of what the radical rapporteur is really calling for to support this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217123303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217123305	The rapporteur is now working on a strawman. I am just saying that they should not be allowed to function normally in Danish society. It's not a life we're trying to build for these people; it's a humanization of the centers that exist. Let me take one example: that is to say, if you arrive as two individuals, you do not necessarily have to be squeezed into a room together. One may have been previously convicted and mentally unstable, and the other may be a normal family father. We see that type of situation, and it is totally inhumane. So it's a humanization of the centers we see.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217123335	The next brief remark is to Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217123337	It's actually just out of curiosity with what Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said. If the Radical Left believes that you should leave the country, if it is the case that you do not have a right to stay, that you should not have a job, etc. etc., why is it that it needs to be changed from an exit centre to a living centre? That is one part of the question. The second part is: if you follow it, as Mr. Mr Sikandar Siddique, and what the Radical Left supports, does the rapporteur think that more or less people are actually leaving Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217123404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217123405	In fact, I believe that we are largely going to end up where we are today, namely that these exit centres, which we are currently working on, are not working. A little more than a quarter disappears all by itself, and it is perhaps very good that these refugees at the centres just disappear between our fingers, there are probably some in the Folketing who think. For us in the Radical Left, it is the case that we want to be involved, among other things. to take international responsibility. So the fact that they're just going out to the rest of Europe or somewhere else and living underground, we're not interested in either. So we really do not think that the exit centres are working today and have done what they should do. There are people who spend their whole lives at the centers.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217123447	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217123447-2	I would like to say that I agree with the rapporteur that the exit centres are not working and that they are not working well enough. It is just with an opposite sign, because we believe that much more must go out of the country. However, does the rapporteur really believe that if it is the case that we transform our exit centres into residence centres, then there are more people who want to go out?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217123508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217123509	Yeah, that's kind of what I was saying. The question of these centres is, of course, that we are asking ourselves what kind of country we want to be. What kind of life are we going to give these people who have no legal residence here? What is happening in a third country is simply not a place where we in the Radical Left think we should go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217123533	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217123547	Thank you for that and thank you to the Free Greens for making this proposal. I regard it very much as the rapporteur on the Radical Left, namely as a reform of the centre system we have in the field of foreigners today. I think so and Enhedslisten to the extent needed. We mean, for example: not that the exit centres should be operated by the criminal services. I think it is a very strange mix of legal policy and foreign policy that we should set criminal services staff to deal with rejected asylum seekers, who are not criminals and who are not trained to be with, deal with their problems and help them get back to work. No evil word about the talented people who work in the criminal services, but I should like to say from our prisons that they are missing the criminal services staff over there. That is why I think it would be better for everyone if it were the Red Cross that operated the centres of the asylum system in Denmark. We feel in the Enhedslisten that you don't have to sit long at a center. When we made the division, where the new asylum seekers are in one place in the system and the rejected asylum seekers are somewhere else in the system, it was never intended that the conditions should be as excuse me crazy as they are today, and that was the then Minister of Justice, Mr. Morten Bødskov, who alone made the decision that it was the criminal services that were supposed to run these centers, and it was a surprise to us in the Enhedslisten. For I think, basically, it is wise to have the two groups of asylum seekers divided, because the new asylum seekers must have made applications for asylum and they must have an introduction to Danish society, and that is a very different group than they rejected. That is why I think it is wise to have them divided, but it is not wise to treat rejected asylum seekers as if they were criminals. It just isn't. I would like to say that today they are treated completely inhumanely, both when I look at the Travel Centre Sjælsmark, when I look at Kærshovedgård, and when I look at the Alienscenter Ellebæk, which the Minister and I were given the opportunity to discuss just a few minutes ago. So there is such a need for reform. I look forward very much to discussing this proposal in committee, because there are also some things in the proposal to which we in the Enhedslist have some questions, and that is precisely what this is about making it a residence centre. 'Cause does that mean you have to be there for a long time? We would actually rather say that asylum seekers who cannot be sent out should be part of Danish society. They have to live in smaller units... it could be housing complexes around the country so that they could get work so that they could take an education and become part of the Danish community until the day they can go back to the country from which they have fled, so you only have to be at the living center for a short time. I actually believe or guess that, as I know of the Greens, the Greens agree, but we do not really see the limits of this proposal, and that is why we are, in fact, very prepared to work a lot on this proposal in committee so that we can find a place where we can hopefully meet. I'm also listening to the fact that sir... Carl Valentin says that SF would like to do so, and I am listening to Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday saying that the Radical Left would like to do so, so I think we could actually have a rather sensible committee work on this. So thank you very much to the Free Greens for putting the proposal forward, because it is absolutely necessary to reform the system we have today in the area of the centre of asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217123934	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217123938	I would just like to thank the rapporteur for his positive reception and I would like to reply to that question because it makes sense. Because when we say place of residence, it really just means for us that it's a place where they can get help, they can build up skills, they can be guided on in the system. But we are completely in line with Enhedslisten, that is, that we do not believe that people should rot in any centers and stay a long time at any center. They must go out and have normal lives, they must work and their children must be in institutions and schools, and they must be part of our society as long as they cannot be sent home. So the thing about turning them into places of residence was just to say that you could take these places and turn them into such centres where they could actually get help to be built up, in relation to questions etc. etc. They don't necessarily have to live there.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217124029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217124030	Thank you for that clarification. That already suggests that we are getting closer, and that is why it is good that we have both the treatment we have today, but that we also have the opportunity to make clarifications in the work of the committee. In any case, we would very much like to be involved in this very actively on the part of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217124049	Sir. Sikandar Siddique? Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217124053	Yes, and once again, it is very fine in the context of the dialogue that has just taken place between the proposer and Mrs Rosa Lund, and I hope that the rapporteur from the Left is still listening. For the Left rapporteur said earlier in the debate that the Left agreed with the intention of that proposal, but now it comes out in the dialogue between the proposer and Mrs Rosa Lund that the intention of this proposal is in fact to arrive at a situation in which the people who are on exit centres live a normal life in Denmark. They must be able to live in small units, they must be able to take work, they must be able to take an education, they must be part of the ordinary Danish society, and when we know that much of the discussion we have had about the people at exit centres has been about the fact that it is people who have committed crime and are condemned to expulsion, it is thought-provoking if they should have better opportunities to do so in the ordinary way in Danish society. Well, they'll never get out of Denmark. So I certainly hope that some of those who have thought that they agreed with the intention of this proposal will think twice.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217124155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217124156	Now Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl himself just now is well aware that not everyone sitting in exit centres is a criminal and now Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl it still sounds like everyone's a criminal. Well, that's not true, and sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl himself has just said that he knows that. That is why I am somewhat surprised at this question. But it is absolutely right that we believe that reform is needed here, and for my sake, Mr President. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, we can take a look at it. After all, there is a difference between having been sentenced to expulsion and having rejected asylum seekers, and let us talk about whether these groups should also be dealt with differently, because I can agree that they should. I am not so sure that I agree with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl in how the handling should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217124245	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217124246	Well, I am incredibly pleased that there is a recognition that people who have committed crime and have been expelled in connection with their sentence are some that we need to look at separately. That is what the Danish People's Party has proposed. We have proposed screening, for example. of them at Kærshovedgård, when we had the whole discussion about whether the 130 were going to Langeland. Then we said that let us have screened those who create insecurity, those who have been convicted of crime, and then say that they, for example. I'm gonna have to be locked up. Because what is happening right now is that one says that wherever they are placed in Denmark, one will give support to the law-abiding Danish neighbours to such exit centres can get support for perhaps alarm systems, or that the merchant must have a guard standing, etc., because it simply creates insecurity that we have foreigners convicted of crime and sentenced to expulsion, who will not go home. That is why I think it is really important that this discussion is included in this debate, since it is now about a proposal which is intended to transform exit centres into ordinary accommodation centres. Mrs Rosa Lund then says that the intention is, in reality, to have small units in which the ordinary life is to a greater extent lived.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217124346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217124348	Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. Kristian Thulesen Dahl well knows, so in the Enhedslisten we also have some suggestions on these issues. We have, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. At Kærshovedgård, former Foreign Minister Mrs Inger Løjberg has even had the washbasins removed, so they cannot even have a washbasin. It's a bad idea to put a lot of criminals together somewhere. It always has been. That is why we have proposed a number of other things. I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217124426	That is quite correct. Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Marcus Knuth. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217124445	Thank you, President. Our view of this is actually very straightforward: If you are not legally resident in Denmark, you must of course go home. We would even say that it is your duty to go home. And those who then refuse and sit on long-term stays in our exit centres have themselves made a decision to put themselves in a difficult situation, and that is particularly sad when it comes to those who have children, because then they put the children in a very, very difficult situation by not going home. If we follow this proposal and change our way of leaving, we will undermine the Danish immigration policy, and we risk Denmark becoming an asylum magnet again, and we do not want that in any way. I would just like to say that I am also surprised by the views of the Radical Left here. They stand here on the platform and say that if you do not have a stay in Denmark, you have to go home, and you do not have to work etc., but when we hear about the details of this proposal, that is to say what you want from the Greens, it is that you have to have a normal everyday life at a living centre, and then it makes no sense that the Radical Left will vote for it here, but at the same time says that you have to go out if you do not have a right to stay. Then I would just like to finish by saying that I am glad that there is a very broad majority against this proposal, which is good enough with nuances, because we can see that the government has a slightly different view from ours with regard to some parts of it, for example. Soul field. We also believe that the government should do much more to get people sent out, but we are at least pleased that there is a very, very broad majority against transforming overall exit centres into accommodation centres. Conservatives cannot support the proposal as it is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217124624	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217124626	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Of course, it is always a pity when parties do not support one's proposals, and of course I think it is in this case too. I would really like to ask the rapporteur something. That is the thing about the fact that it is fine that you want a tough, tight immigration policy, but we can see that there are people who are being broken down. And as the rapporteur has just said, there are children suffering from these conditions. So what's Conservative thinking? So, we're just gonna keep going like this? Then we just keep saying that there are parents on the one hand who say that they will not go home, and then there is a political majority on the other who say that if you do not want to go home, you will be allowed to rot here, which means that the children also rot here, etc. etc.? In other words, I can hear that the rapporteur at least recognises that it is hard for children to live there, that it can cause problems. So what's the solution? So, we're just gonna go on like this? What is Conservatives' bid for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217124724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217124726	But basically our view is that if it is the case that you do not have a right to stay in Denmark, that you sit in an exit centre and have children, then you use the children as hostages by refusing to leave; then you punish your own children de facto by not going back to the home country you come from. So, the solution is ■ and that's why I'm looking down at the minister now that the government is doing even more to get people to go home. And there I think we can sit down as a group of parties supporting exit centres and have a talk about what we can do further in relation to what is being done right now. But the solution is for people to go home. The solution is not that we change exit centres to accommodation centres, because then there will be just a massive accumulation of foreigners without any right to stay in Denmark, who are still staying in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217124809	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217124811	But then you could also do the other way around, sir. Marcus Knuth, argue that the political majority is holding the children hostage. It's kind of like that, isn't it? In other words, the parents hold them hostage, the political majority says, because they do not leave voluntarily, which affects the children. And then we have a political majority that says: well then we hold the children hostage because you do not leave. None of us give us. None of the parties will give in. The adults aren't gonna give up, and the kids are gonna get hurt. That is why I say that it is not sustainable and asked the rapporteur: what are we doing in such a situation? But I heard the rapporteur say that then you have to sit down and talk to the government and who else has been set up about what can be done. But that's kind of the thing about us all holding the kids hostage in this, and the kids are hurting.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217124854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217124855	Well, with all due respect, if we pursue the path that Mr. Sikandar Siddique is pursuing here, with the fact that one can then just stay in Denmark, even if one is expelled, then all the deportees will just stay. And then there will only be more and more deportees, more and more criminals, more and more foreigners without any right to stay in Denmark, who just stay here anyway. Well, that's not the way forward. Then we might as well say: Even if you are deported, you can stay in Denmark and you can work and you can do it all. But then we end up with a massive accumulation of criminals, rejected foreigners, and that is by no means what we want from my party.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217124927	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. This is the time to give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Sikandar Siddique from the Free Greens.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217124950	Thank you for the floor. Let us close the asylum hell, let us close the exit centres, and let us exercise humanitarian socialism instead. Colleagues: In the Free Greens, we are convinced that Denmark must change course radically and transform Danish exit centres into ordinary residence centres for children, young people and adults, where they can be built and where they can get help. Continuing with the current practice at the exit centres is simply a human declaration of failure. Free Greens will therefore close the current exit centres. We want a full end to the inhumane treatment that we provide to children, young people and adults alike. It is children, young people and adults who are in an extremely vulnerable and vulnerable situation and who are living in dire, shameful and disastrous conditions. For Free Greens, therefore, I am today motivating a resolution to close Denmark's three current exit centres in Zealand, Avnstrup and Kærshovedgård and Alienscenter Ellebæk. And why? Because Denmark can't be that familiar. The first exit centre in Denmark opened for approx. 5 years ago, and the idea has turned out to be a huge failure. The travel centres are more than twice as expensive as ordinary accommodation centres, and they degrade residents mentally and physically. Having adults and children sitting in exit centres far out in the countryside, with no opportunity to work, with residence and reporting obligations, and without the possibility of maintaining anything similar to a normal life, is inhumane and harmful. The vast majority at such centers develop psychological diagnoses, and attempted suicide is not a rarity among residents. At the same time, exit centres do not lead to more voluntary return journeys. The premiss is simply wrong. Why do you focus alone on returning home? Yeah, we really know that. This is due to the very tough approach, the right-wing approach led by the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats, which has led to this very inhuman refugee policy for decades. Unfortunately, we are seeing several reports, inspections and inspections that show conspicuous dissatisfaction, apathy and rootlessness among children and families at the exit centres. It needs to be stopped now. Why hasn't it been stopped already? The travelling centres seem to have only one specific purpose: to make things so bad that people are pressured to give up and go home. This has resulted in centres that prove to be making people sick and the longer their stay, the worse mental health. Now is the time to stop and stop all unnecessary surveillance, control and coercion and let residents live as normal a life as possible. So why not give them an opportunity to live a safe life in Danish society, an opportunity to live a life with communities, education, culture and perhaps even a job? This would be entirely in line with a number of recommendations from researchers, NGOs, actors and refugees. This would affect both integration and integration in a much more positive direction, and humanly it would be entirely appropriate. We must help and support the potential of residents, not break them down, so that they never move forward in their lives. Free Greens want the converted exit centres to be operated in a new and more humane way. This must be done by giving humanitarian aid organisations the opportunity to operate the centres currently run by criminal services. Thus, the operation of exit centres by criminal services can be replaced by humanitarian aid organisations. I have been pleased with the debate in the Parliamentary Chamber. I have been pleased that there are parties in the Folketing that will deal with our proposal in committee and I hope that we can come up with a constructive solution. That is why I would once again urge the Danish Parliament, the Minister, to drop the asylum hell now. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217125432	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and that is only from Mr Seligman's point of view. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217125437	Thank you. Sir. Sikandar Siddique stands and says with contempt in his voice that the exit centres have the terrible purpose of getting people to leave. Yeah, that's why it's an exit center. So if I may ask the rapporteur directly: does the rapporteur really believe, as we do, that a rejected criminal asylum seeker should leave the country as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217125459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217125459-2	If you have been denied your case, you have to travel in principle, but the problem here is that people live in these centres for very, very many years, and when we cannot send them home, the problem that we are really trying to raise with this proposal arises. It is that we, as a prosperous democratic society, cannot say: then you just rot. Then your kids just have to go down mentally. Then they must develop ptsd. That's where the challenge is: it's not that they shouldn't leave if they get their case rejected, but it's when they can't go down there, when the country won't accept them, or when you can't find out where they're going, and then they rot in these centers. There I feel that it is of course very much about these people, but it is very much about us as a society. We are a democratic society, a rule of law, and we cannot offer that to people. Man first!
ParlaMint-DK_20211217125608	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217125609	Well, I am at least a little glad that the rapporteur says that you have to go home if that is how you have been refused to stay here. At least that's a little comfort, but the reality is that many of these people can go home. They simply refuse to go home, and if we do not cooperate with their country of origin then the problem arises. But they can go home if they want. So I would like to hear Mr. Sikandar Siddique: What does Mr. Sikandar Siddique and Free Greens do so that people actually start to go home, or do you just want to do nothing, and as the proposal here suggests, make it as pleasant as possible to be in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217125643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217125644	This is really the same question I asked the rapporteur before. I think we should separate these two discussions. Of course we need to find out what we are doing to make people go home, but the Free Greens just won't help hold the children hostage and break down people. That is where I, like myself, tried to draw it up by saying: okay, a political majority says that parents can leave, but they do not leave and hold their children hostage. But that is what a political majority does in the Folketing when we say: okay, the parents will not leave, but then we will hold the children hostage. Then they must be destroyed, and then we must make it so difficult for these people and so destructive for these people that they themselves are leaving, and that is not what the Free Greens think is worthy of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217125727	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217125731	Thank you. There is talk of the rule of law and there is talk of a safe life in Denmark and perhaps even a job. After all, the rapporteur asked me earlier whether I could confirm that at some of these exit centres there were people who had not committed crime. Can the rapporteur not confirm that there are quite a few who have committed crime? And can the rapporteur confirm that one of the people we are talking about is the person who in 2010 was probably attacking Kurt Vestergaard with an axe and sentenced to 10 years in prison for terrorism and sentenced to expulsion? Is it one of those people who you think should live a safe life in Denmark and perhaps even have a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217125814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217125815	There are criminals, I would just like to say, to make it an honest and proper discussion we have. There are criminals, among others. The one who attacked Kurt Vestergaard with an axe, but it is very few people. The vast majority are not criminals. So I confirm that there are criminals, but the vast majority are not criminals. And we must not make legislation on the basis of fear, on the basis that there are a few that we do not think are right and then take it out on all the others. In addition, I just have to say again: in a democratic society, it is the case that once you have endured your punishment, we cannot continue to say that you must be punished anyway and that you must be punished forever. When you've endured your punishment, you've endured your punishment. It's not in Denmark, it's in banana Republics, they say: We don't like you, you've endured your punishment now, and you've been in prison, but we still don't like you because we don't feel comfortable with you, so we're just gonna put you away forever; we're gonna put you away, and you're certainly not gonna be part of society. You can't do that in a rule of law. In a community of law, when you have endured your punishment, whether we like it or not, you are allowed to live a normal life. We must insist on this, otherwise we will not be a community governed by the rule of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217125929	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217125930	The latter doesn't make any sense at all. Now we have had a major discussion on a decision on Monday, etc., and respect for it, and so, in a constitutional state, the Supreme Court has convicted the person we are talking about here, a Somali, of a violent attack on former writer Kurt Vestergaard and sentenced him to 10 years in prison for terrorism. It's a very hard paragraph. At the same time, it has been decided that he has nothing to do in Denmark. He's deported from Denmark. It's part of the sentence. Then the man says he doesn't care about that, and that he just stays stuck in Denmark; he doesn't want to leave Denmark. And what do the proposers say here? Well then he must be rewarded with what was it, having a safe life in Denmark, perhaps even having a job. Is it a rule of law that you say to a person who has been sentenced by the Supreme Court to 10 years in prison and expulsion of Denmark that if he does not want to leave, he just needs to have normal conditions, he just needs to be able to live his life in Denmark, and that all Danes have to put up with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217130031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217130032	I have two things. The first is that it's one man who's done it out of all the others sitting in there. We cannot legislate and punish everyone else on the basis of one man. We have to hold on to that. The other thing is to say that I don't like him, but I just feel like when you've endured your sentence when you're convicted, you have the right to a normal life, whether we like it or not. And it's just important for me to say that if we do away with that principle, we're going to be like dictatorships and banana republics that look big on the rule of law and where they say: we don't like you, so you're being persecuted, and we don't like you, so you're being locked up, and you don't have to come before a judge. That is, of course, the difference between us, a well-developed democracy, and these states with dictators and banana republics.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217130132	The next brief remark is from Mrs Anne Rasmussen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217130134	Thank you. Since you are sitting in an exit centre and can voluntarily travel home and even get the Danish authorities to arrange the return journey you even get money to reboot your life... does the rapporteur really not think that you have just a little bit of responsibility for your own misfortune when you stubbornly hold on to the fact that you do not want to travel?
ParlaMint-DK_20211217130156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217130157	Well, you have a responsibility. Of course you have a responsibility, you definitely have a responsibility. But the discussion is much more complicated than making it a simple yes or no question. But basically, all people always have a responsibility. Of course you do. But we, as politicians, also have a responsibility. As a political majority in this House, we also have a responsibility for the best interests of the child, and that is what I have tried to say several times in the discussion here, so to say: when the Council of Europe's torture committee criticises Denmark for having crazy relationships, we, as politicians in a democratic society, have a responsibility to create proper conditions for all people.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217130236	Thank you to the rapporteur and to the authors of the motion for a resolution. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20211217130252	Then the Committee on the Verification of Credentials has submitted a report and a recommendation on Mrs Inger Løjberg. The report and recommendation will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 21 December 2021 at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website, and I will also refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website. The meeting is adjourned.
